

601 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: Seeking Profit For Taxpayers In Potential Of New Drug

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With automatic spending cuts cascading through the government, lawmakers are calling for a review of federal policies they say have allowed businesses to profit on government research with limited return for taxpayers or consumers.
That re-examination could be particularly intense in federal science, once a corner of the government with bipartisan protection that has become something of an orphan caught between Republican efforts to protect the military and Democrats' defense of Social Security and Medicare. Now, advocates for creative new funding policies might have an example for their cause, a new arthritis drug called Xeljanz that got its start in a taxpayer-financed laboratory at the National Institutes of Health.
''Just from the standpoint of sequestration, this is going to make the need for effective use of research dollars more important than ever,'' said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon. ''I can tell you people are talking about it.''
In 1994, the National Institutes of Health approached the pharmaceutical giant Pfizer with a plan to work together on promising new research on inflammatory diseases like arthritis. At the time, it was the research agency's policy that the price of any resulting product would have to reflect the taxpayers' investment and ''the health and safety needs of the public.'' Pfizer declined. 
The next year, the agency scrapped that pricing clause, and in 1996 Pfizer jumped. This year, Xeljanz hit the market, a potential blockbuster arthritis pill that had its start in the laboratory of the federal scientist John O'Shea. Its price is eye-popping at $2,055 a month wholesale -- $24,666 a year -- a direct cost to Medicare if, as expected, it takes off with older arthritis sufferers.
On Friday, Senator Wyden sent Francis S. Collins, the director of the institutes, a formal letter requesting documents about the Xeljanz collaboration ''to gain an understanding of what the public can expect as a return on its research investment.''
''In the face of this difficult economic climate and the increasing scarcity of research dollars it is time to revisit the idea of striking a better balance between encouraging profit, innovation, accessibility and affordability,'' the senator wrote in a letter intended for public release on Tuesday. ''N.I.H. should convene an outside panel to re-examine the pricing of medicines and treatments developed with public funds.''
The research agency is hardly the only part of the federal government that is dealing with the repercussions of decisions made in better budgetary times. In the late 1990s and early 2000s, military and veterans' benefits were expanded. Expensive new weapons systems were begun, like the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Children's health insurance was extended, paid for by tobacco smokers, who were declining in number.
But with some of its fiercest allies gone, like the late Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, advocates for federal science are feeling particularly vulnerable.
Federal research and development spending, already down 10 percent since 2010, faces an additional 8 percent cut, or $54 billion, through 2017 under the automatic cuts, known as sequestration, according to the American Association for the Advancement of Science. That would set total federal science spending back to 2002 levels, said Alan I. Leshner, chief executive of the association.
Sequestration pulled $1.6 billion -- or 5 percent -- from the research agency's budget for the rest of the fiscal year, and unless reversed, it will slice the budget by 8 percent, or $11.3 billion, through 2017.
''We are eating our seed corn,'' Mr. Leshner, a former N.I.H. institute director, said.
Pfizer played down the role that federal science played in the development of Xeljanz. The company said it first became aware of Dr. O'Shea's work in 1993 at a public conference, but that research -- published in 1994 -- was in the public domain. A company official said ''to our knowledge'' the cooperative research project did not yield any patentable intellectual property.
''Over the course of 20 years Pfizer invested more than $1 billion into the discovery, development and commercialization of Xeljanz,'' a company statement said, referring to the screening of hundreds of thousands of compounds and a decade of clinical trials. ''It was the culmination of this work undertaken by Pfizer that led to the drug now known as Xeljanz.''
Senator Wyden acknowledged the expenses of drug discovery and clinical development. But in December, after the Food and Drug Administration approved the drug, the federal research agency hailed the decision as a victory for itself, and Dr. O'Shea as ''the N.I.H. researcher who discovered the JAK3 protein and established its role in inflammation.''
The cooperative research agreement ''allowed teams from both organizations to work together toward the common goal of finding a new immune-suppressing drug,'' the research agency said.
No longer preoccupied by cold war research, government scientists have pursued collaborations with private industry. Dr. O'Shea's team began trying to isolate a protein, called JAK3, that latches on to some immune cells. Scientists hoped to control the behavior of the immune cells, and in turn help control autoimmune conditions like rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, colitis and myositis.
Pfizer was intrigued, but at the time such cooperative research and development agreements were governed by the pricing policy. The company backed off, a development that was reported earlier this year in the trade journal Nature Biotechnology.
An official who was involved at the time said it was not just businesses that were spooked. Scientists did not know what such a ''reasonable relationship'' was, and they too wanted their work to get to the market.
''The 'reasonable pricing clause' did have a chilling effect on the desire to work with our collaborators,'' said Dr. Kathy Hudson, deputy director for science, outreach, and policy at the N.I.H.
Harold Varmus, a Nobel Prize-winning scientist and the research agency's director at the time, scrapped the clause in 1995, and Pfizer joined forces in 1996.
Xeljanz, the first commercial drug that targets the JAK3 pathway discovered by Dr. O'Shea, has the potential to be a blockbuster, said Tony Butler, a pharmaceutical industry analyst at Barclays Capital.
Unlike other new arthritis drugs, it comes as a pill, not a shot. Mr. Butler said he expected peak sales to reach $1.9 billion by 2020 or 2021, and that was just for rheumatoid arthritis. Other autoimmune conditions could expand the market.
''This is a pill, and patients like pills,'' said Les Funtleyder, a health care strategist at the investment firm Poliwogg.
The drug's hefty price has not made some members of Congress happy.
''American taxpayers are entitled to realize a return on their investment in N.I.H. research resulting in this -- or any other -- breakthrough drug. Surely price gouging isn't what they expect or deserve,'' said Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and a longtime critic of the pharmaceutical industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Xeljanz, a new arthritis drug from Pfizer, costs more than $2,000 a month wholesale.
John J. O'Shea of the National Institutes of Health, who helped develop the drug Xeljanz, and Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
 ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); DRUG PRICES (75%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); VETERANS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); MILITARY BENEFITS (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (70%); SMOKING (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (93%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (93%); PFEB (BRU) (93%); PFE (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (93%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (93%)

PERSON: RON WYDEN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



602 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Obama, in Israel Visit, to Seek Common Ground With Netanyahu on Iran

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- If President Obama's most obvious goal on his trip to Israel this week is to forge a connection with the Israeli people, his challenge behind closed doors is to persuade Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he can rely on the United States to take care of Iran.
This time, some analysts said, he may have better odds of success than he has had in the past.
Public disagreements between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu over how to deal with Iran have waned in recent months. This comes from a combination of the president's repeated warnings to Tehran; Iran's strategy of not crossing Israel's red lines while continuing to build its nuclear program; and changes in Israel's political landscape, which have weakened Mr. Netanyahu and made a unilateral military strike less likely. 
''What Netanyahu wants to be persuaded of is that the chances Obama will take care of the problem, combined with his assessment of the decay of the Iranian economy, justifies Israel standing down this year,'' said Cliff Kupchan, an Iran expert at the Eurasia Group, a political risk consulting firm, who just returned from a visit to Israel.
What Mr. Obama can offer, he predicted, ''will be enough for a weakened Israeli prime minister.''
To be sure, Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu still view the timeline for the Iranian nuclear threat very differently. In an interview last week with an Israeli television station, Mr. Obama said it would take Iran ''over a year or so'' to develop a nuclear weapon. Mr. Netanyahu, in a speech before the United Nations last fall, said Iran could cross a critical threshold in its capacity to build a weapon by this spring or summer.
Mr. Obama's statement to Israeli television was not part of an orchestrated strategy, according to a senior administration official. But it represented a rare instance of the president declaring a time frame, based on American intelligence, for when Iran could go nuclear.
On Wednesday, the two leaders will have a chance to hash out these differences in a lengthy meeting, as well as over dinner that night.
''This will be a very important conversation,'' said Dennis B. Ross, who oversaw Iran and Middle East policy in the Obama administration until 2011. ''For the Israelis, the big issue is, 'do we discuss the point at which prevention with Iran may no longer work?' ''
For Mr. Netanyahu, Iran's recent decision to divert some of its medium-enriched uranium to make fuel rods for a research reactor, making it difficult to convert the uranium into nuclear fuel, represents a vindication of the red line he laid down at the United Nations: that Iran could not possess enough nuclear fuel to produce a single weapon.
But analysts said it also underscores for Mr. Netanyahu how swiftly Iran could generate more medium-enriched uranium, particularly given a new generation of centrifuges that the Iranian government is installing in its Natanz nuclear facility.
Mr. Obama is expected to emphasize the pressure that sanctions have imposed on the Iranian economy, as well as the progress in negotiations between the major powers and Iran. Mr. Netanyahu, analysts said, is impressed by the coalition assembled by the United States, but believes that Washington should be demanding more of Iran.
Instead, in the wake of the most recent round of talks in Kazakhstan, some Israelis are concerned that the West might be preparing to cut a deal with Iran that would allow it to keep a stockpile of less-enriched uranium, which it could later purify to nuclear-grade.
''They clearly agree on the objective,'' said David Makovsky, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''The question is, what is the best policy to ensure that objective? There are still fundamental divides that have not been bridged.''
The two leaders, however, are highly unlikely to air their differences. Mr. Netanyahu, having just cobbled together a new government, wants a successful visit to bolster his political standing. Mr. Obama, seeking to build his credibility with the Israeli public, does not want a dispute over Iran to detract from his first trip to Israel as president.
Some analysts believe that Mr. Obama now holds the upper hand, in part because doubts about the wisdom of a unilateral strike have grown in Israel since last year, when it was widely discussed.
Iran has made enough progress reinforcing its Fordo nuclear facility that it is no longer clear whether Israeli warplanes could destroy it.
''There has been a dramatic change in the policy views of most Israeli elites since last fall,'' Mr. Kupchan said. ''There is a fresh sense that there's not as much they can do militarily.''
The politics in Israel, moreover, have changed. Ehud Barak, the defense minister who was a leading hawk on Iran, has left Mr. Netanyahu's cabinet. The prime minister's new cabinet, though not necessarily composed of doves, will need to be briefed before the ministers are likely to vote in favor of unilateral action, analysts said.
''For Netanyahu, extending for several more rounds this hysterical walking-up-to-the-edge-of-war was going to be difficult,'' said Daniel Levy, director of the Middle East and North Africa program at the European Council on Foreign Relations in London. ''This government is totally untested on Iran.''
Mr. Netanyahu, he said, will probably give Mr. Obama several months to seek a diplomatic solution, secure in the knowledge that the president has ruled out a containment policy and that the American Congress will be unlikely to allow him to relax the sanctions.
For his part, Mr. Obama is signaling his determination to keep up the pressure on Iran. In a New Year's message to the Iranian people, the president said the Iranian government had failed to persuade the world that its nuclear program was peaceful.
''That's why the world is united in its resolve to address this issue and why Iran is now so isolated,'' Mr. Obama said in the video message. ''The people of Iran have paid a high and unnecessary price because of your leaders' unwillingness to address this issue.''
Mr. Obama's language, a senior administration official said, was meant to signify ''our heightened concerns about their program, and the fact we are in a window of intensive diplomacy.''
While Mr. Obama's statement to the Israeli television station underscored his longer timeline relative to Mr. Netanyahu, analysts noted that he followed it up immediately with, ''Obviously, we don't want to cut it too close.'' To some, that was evidence that Mr. Obama will not wait until Iran is within one or two turns of the screwdriver from a bomb.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An employee at the Jerusalem home of President Shimon Peres arranged flags on Monday for President Obama's visit to Israel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RONEN ZVULUN/REUTERS)
 Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sat before his new cabinet on Monday as Mr. Peres turned to speak to them. Mr. Netanyahu will meet with Mr. Obama in a weakened political position. (POOL PHOTO BY RONEN ZVULUN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (92%); SHIMON PERES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (73%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) ISRAEL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



603 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM EUROPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Poland and France Move Toward a Europe Less Dependent on U.S.

BYLINE: By JUDY DEMPSEY

 BODY:
BRUSSELS -- When the former U.S. defense secretary Donald Rumsfeld referred in 2003 to France and Germany as ''old Europe'' and to the East Europeans as ''new Europe,'' he sparked off a debate about the trans-Atlantic relationships.
According to Mr. Rumsfeld, the new members of the European Union, especially Poland, supported the U.S. invasion of Iraq because they shared the American belief in freedom. They were also committed Atlanticists. 
Several of the older member states, Mr. Rumsfeld implied, were more interested in driving a wedge between Europe and the United States, even wanting to establish European defense structures independent of NATO.
Now, 10 years after his memorable speech, the trans-Atlantic relationship has changed fundamentally on two counts.
One is America's shift to the Asia-Pacific region. The other is the realignment that is taking place inside the European Union, blurring the distinction between Old and New Europe. Poland is one of the countries that are crucial to the Union's changing contours.
''Poland is one of the few E.U. member states that understands the implications the U.S. shift has for Europe,'' said Tomas Valasek, president of the Central European Policy Institute in Bratislava, Slovakia. ''It has been pushing the E.U. to respond strategically.''
When Poland's center-right government under Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Foreign Minister Radoslaw Sikorski came to power in 2007, it moved from being staunchly Atlanticist to strong advocacy of an integrated Europe.
This was especially clear last month when Mr. Tusk played host to two summit meetings in Warsaw on the same day. One was the Weimar Triangle, which consists of France, Germany and Poland. The other was the Visegrad summit of Czech, Hungarian, Slovak and Polish leaders. All six leaders then held a joint summit meeting, the first ever by these two regional groupings.
That meeting went beyond symbolism. ''This was about Poland showing that it did not want a two-speed Europe that would exclude noneuro-zone countries,'' said Marcin Zaborowski, director of the Polish Institute of International Relations.
Poland fears it would be marginalized because it has not yet adopted the euro. ''During the talks in Warsaw, Chancellor Angela Merkel went out of her way to reassure Poland that its voice would be heard,'' he added.
The presence in Warsaw of François Hollande, the French president, was important, too, for Poland.
Nicolas Sarkozy, his predecessor, had paid only lip service to relations with Poland. Mr. Hollande, in contrast, was making his second visit to the country since taking office a year ago.
''His visits would have been unthinkable under Sarkozy,'' said Aleksander Smolar, president of the Stefan Batory Foundation in Warsaw.
On economic issues, France and Poland are still far apart. Warsaw is much closer to Germany and other North European countries. Unlike France, these countries support structural reforms in order to bolster Europe's competitiveness.
In the political realm, though, Mr. Hollande expects substantial gains from closer ties to Poland. The Tusk government shares France's interest in developing a strong European security and defense policy. Both countries recognize that Europe is no longer a strategic priority for the United States.
Warsaw needs France's support to force the issue onto the E.U. agenda. The main reason is that Poland is not yet a member of the euro zone, which constitutes the heart of power in Europe these days. Nor do its Visegrad allies help much. Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic are either too inward-looking or too euro-skeptic to give Warsaw much support, according to Mr. Valasek.
What is true of Visegrad is true for most other E.U. countries, too. The realities of a new U.S. defense policy that is suddenly placed under radical budget constraints have not yet sunk in, say analysts.
This was reaffirmed last Friday when Chuck Hagel, the new U.S. defense secretary, announced that the Pentagon would reduce its missile defense plans for Europe. Instead, it would put those resources toward a missile shield planned in Alaska that could protect the United States against any attack from North Korea.
The onus, meanwhile, is increasingly being placed on Europe to strengthen its own defense capabilities.
What a change from 10 years ago when Mr. Rumsfeld did his best to discourage any initiative within the European Union to build an independent European defense policy.
Today, the Obama administration would like nothing better than a Europe strong enough to take care of its own defense and security, say analysts. But apart from France and Poland, analysts say that most European leaders simply have not yet understood how much the trans-Atlantic relationship is changing in front of their eyes.
Judy Dempsey is editor in chief of Strategic Europe at Carnegie Europe. (www.carnegieeurope.eu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); POLAND (96%); EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); SLOVAKIA (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); BELGIUM (92%); IRAQ (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); HUNGARY (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



604 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Washington; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Gender Bias Seen in Visas for Skilled Workers

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate Judiciary Committee heard testimony Monday afternoon arguing that the H-1B visa program, which covers highly skilled temporary foreign workers, often in high-tech fields, discriminates against women.
The hearing, which was devoted to issues women face in the immigration process, also focused on family reunification, and ways to help families -- and women specifically -- integrate into the legal immigration system.
''I don't think we should be setting up an either-or proposition -- even the most highly skilled immigrants, they have families, too,'' said Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, referring to what she described as a false, ''either-or'' choice between family-based immigration and high-skilled immigration. ''This is all about doing the kind of immigration reform that really supports the values we have in this country, and one of the values we have in this country is that family is important.''
Karen Panetta, the vice president for communications and public awareness for the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers in the United States of America, testified in her prepared remarks that ''the vast majority of H-1B workers are men.'' 
Ms. Panetta's prepared testimony pointed to ''a serious gender imbalance in science, technology, engineering and math,'' as part of the reason that these H-1B visas in high-tech fields skew disproportionately toward men. But she noted: ''If a major immigration program effectively discriminated based on race or national origin, would that be O.K.?''
''The I.E.E.E.-U.S.A. represents more American high-tech workers than anybody else, so we have sources,'' Ms. Panetta said Monday afternoon. ''One from inside the industry, looking at the offshoring companies that dominate the H-1B program, is that their global hiring is 70 percent men.'' But in the United States, where outsourcing companies get more than half of the limited number of H-1B visas, she added, ''the ratio is more like 85 percent men.''
Ms. Panetta, whose organization has filed a Freedom of Information Act request with the Department of Homeland Security to get data on the gender breakdown of H-1B visas, accused the government in her written testimony of ''stonewalling'' on their request.
''How many women get H-1B visas?'' she said Monday.
A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security said that there is not a gender-based cap for H-1B visas and that gender is not taken into account when deciding who qualifies for the program, so the department does not have this data readily available.
Ai-jen Poo, the director of the National Domestic Workers Alliance, emphasized the need for domestic care workers who are illegal immigrants -- ''a growing workforce of mainly immigrant women who take care of our children, our aging loved ones and our homes,'' as she described them -- to be allowed some flexibility in proving that they have been living and working in the United States.
A nanny who is an illegal immigrant, Ms. Poo said, most likely does not have pay stubs or tax forms to prove she worked for her employer because she largely exists in ''a paperless world.'' She called on the senators to accept ''proofs of presence as opposed to proof of employment'' when it comes to providing a work history for domestic care workers -- many of whom are female.
Another issue of concern is that immigration legislation that is likely to emerge from the Senate might eliminate the ability for United States citizens to sponsor their married adult children, as well as their siblings, on an immigrant visa. Currently, these two groups represent the third and fourth preference categories when it comes to family immigration, but there is some discussion that they might be reshuffled and ultimately cut during the coming immigration overhaul.
''Our family is what permits us to be able to set root and really begin to build a life in this country,'' said Mee Moua, the president of the Asian American Justice Center. ''If those two categories were eliminated, unless some alternative version was put on the table, I think that it would just unfortunately affect women and their families.''
Ms. Moua argued that large, extended families can be critical to helping immigrants become a productive and integrated part of American society.
''Family immigration is critical to our economy, and we know that our communities and all Americans benefit when we're able to provide immigrants with an opportunity to set roots,'' she said. ''We know that siblings provide immigrants an immediate social support system, that is able to help them with child care or if they fall on hard times, or instances where they need some help to start a business. The family network is what has helped our immigrants, regardless of how you come to this country, survive and start a life in this country.
''Children will always be our children, whether they're over the age of 21 or not.'' she said. ''For us to start to think about which members of our family we're going to trade away is a dramatic and drastic departure from the core values of what has been driving this country since our founding days.''
Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, however, was not so convinced that all family members of immigrants deserved special consideration, simply because they have family in the United States.
''Because a person chooses to leave their home country and come to the United States does not necessarily mean they have the right to demand that their father or their other extended family members be allowed to come if they don't otherwise meet the standard,'' he said.
Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, on Monday also introduced legislation that, he said, would help overhaul the H-1B visa system.
''Somewhere along the line, the H-1B program got side-tracked,'' Mr. Grassley said in an e-mail statement. ''The program was never meant to replace qualified American workers, but it was instead intended as a means to fill gaps in highly specialized areas of employment. When times are tough, like they are now, it's especially important that Americans get every consideration before an employer looks to hire from abroad. The legislation will benefit the American worker, while still ensuring that U.S. companies get the specialized workers they need.''
Only four members of the committee -- Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota; Mr. Grassley; Ms. Hirono; and Mr. Sessions -- attended Monday's hearing. None of the committee members who are also part of the bipartisan group of eight senators working on comprehensive immigration legislation showed up.
Monday's hearing also kicked off a weeklong series of events on Capitol Hill as part of the ''We Belong Together'' campaign, in which hundreds of women from 24 states will call for an immigration overhaul that specifically addresses the challenges that female immigrants face.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (92%); GENDER EQUALITY (91%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); WOMEN (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); FAMILY (90%); MEN (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); OFFSHORING (61%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (60%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS (55%)

PERSON: MAZIE K HIRONO (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



605 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Rights Council to Vote on Resolution on Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By NICK CUMMING-BRUCE

 BODY:
GENEVA -- The United Nations Human Rights Council is preparing to vote this week on a resolution that urges Sri Lanka to deliver on its promises to investigate allegations of mass civilian slaughter in the army campaign that crushed a rebel group in May 2009, and expresses growing international concern over a lengthy catalog of continuing atrocities.
The resolution, sponsored by the United States, calls on Sri Lanka to investigate possible violations of international human rights laws -- polite diplomatic shorthand for growing evidence that soldiers killed tens of thousands of civilians in the campaign that crushed the rebels, the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. It also cites reports of abuse that has continued since then, including extrajudicial killings, torture, forced disappearances, intimidation and violent reprisals against journalists and human rights activists. 
Without some accountability for the civilian deaths, the United States and its supporters argue, there will be no lasting reconciliation to allow Sri Lanka to turn a corner on a civil war that dragged on for 26 years as the Tamil Tigers unleashed extremes of violence to win autonomy for the mainly Tamil northern and eastern parts of the island from its overall Sinhalese majority.
But Sri Lanka's leaders denounce the initiative as unwarranted and dangerous foreign meddling. The dispute is another chapter in the opposing narratives on how the government ended the war and is now handling the peace.
For four years, the government of President Mahinda Rajapaksa has insisted that its army carried out a rescue operation of people trapped in areas controlled by the Tigers in 2009, strictly adhering to a ''zero civilian casualties'' directive from the president. And since the war's end, the government claims to have made huge strides in resettling more than 200,000 people displaced by fighting, clearing large areas of land mines and pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into rebuilding the social and economic infrastructure of the north and east.
Moreover, Sri Lanka has already embarked on restoring harmony, the government says, pointing to a reconciliation commission set up in 2010 and a national plan of action and national humanitarian plan adopted later to carry out its recommendations. ''Sri Lanka needs adequate time and space to resolve such wide-ranging and deep-rooted issues,'' Mahinda Samarasinghe, the president's special envoy on human rights, told the council at the start of its current session.
But that version of events has faced growing skepticism since March 2011, when a United Nations panel of experts issued a report concluding that 40,000 civilians were killed in the closing weeks of the war. The panel said there was credible evidence that the Tigers had committed war crimes, using civilians as a buffer, but most died in sustained army shelling of areas it had designated as no-fire zones.
A day or two before they vote on the resolution, council members will hear a report from Navi Pillay, the United Nations human rights chief, acknowledging significant government progress on rebuilding infrastructure but saying that the steps Sri Lanka's leaders have taken to investigate abuses are ''inconclusive and lack the independence and impartiality to inspire confidence.'' Ms. Pillay calls instead for an international investigation, a move that drew a rebuke from Sri Lanka and accusations of bias.
Adding to the heated atmosphere, a new documentary, shown for the first time before the Human Rights Council in Geneva this month, purports to show the flesh-and-blood reality of events reviewed by the panel. The film, ''No Fire Zone: The Killing Fields of Sri Lanka,'' juxtaposes footage of an army commander asserting that his troops had not used heavy weapons with harrowing video of villagers struck by artillery shells aimed at food distribution points and hospitals.
The documentary confronts official denials of summary executions with trophy videos, apparently filmed on soldiers' cellphones, showing troops shooting naked, blindfolded prisoners. In the same vein, a series of photos, apparently shot from the same camera, show Balachandran Prabhakaran, the 12-year-old son of Velupillai Prabhakaran, leader of the Tamil Tigers, first sitting in a bunker munching a snack, then lying dead with five bullet holes in his chest.
''We see it as a film of record but also a call to action,'' Callum Macrae, who made ''No Fire Zone'' and two other television documentaries on the same subject, told reporters before its first screening. Digital forensic experts examined all photographs and video for evidence of tampering and found none, Mr. Macrae said.
The film, and the use of United Nations premises to show it, drew swift protests from Ravinatha Aryasinha, Sri Lanka's ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva. He did not watch the film, but appeared at the end of its first screening to condemn ''footage of dubious origin, content that is distorted and without proper sourcing and making unsubstantiated allegations.''
Council watchers foresee more support for this year's resolution than last year's, a prediction that appears to reflect growing international concern about human rights abuses. Beyond the forced disappearances and reprisals, Sri Lanka's security forces have used rape and sexual violence against Tamil men and women detained as suspected supporters of the Tamil Tigers, according to a report released by Human Rights Watch last month.
Beyond such extremes, analysts say Tamils, who are mostly Hindu, now live in a state in which the largely Sinhalese military is the dominant force in daily life, creating large military settlements, building settler camps and temples for the predominantly Buddhist Sinhalese in largely Hindu areas, and taking up economic ventures in the north and east.
''There is a project to undermine the political power of Tamil people in the northern province and Sri Lanka generally,'' Alan Keenan, a project director and senior analyst at the International Crisis Group, said in a telephone interview. Sri Lanka has a long history of Sinhalese and Tamil militancy against perceived injustice, he noted. ''They are playing with fire if they continue so harshly to deny Tamils their rights.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TORTURE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (78%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (77%); EVIDENCE (77%); LANDMINES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SRI LANKA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



606 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Citi in $730 Million Settlement Deal

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Citigroup said on Monday that it had agreed to pay $730 million to settle a class-action lawsuit on behalf of investors who said they were misled by the company's disclosures. 
Investors who bought the bank's debt and preferred stock from 2006 to 2008 contended in their suit that there were misstatements and omissions in the bank's disclosures, Citigroup said in a statement announcing the proposed settlement.
The investors accused the bank of understating loss reserves for its high-risk residential mortgage loans and falsely stating that risky assets were of high credit quality, according to Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossmann, a law firm that represented pension funds and other investors in the case.
The bank denied the accusations and said it was entering into the settlement to end the litigation. It said the settlement would be covered by existing litigation reserves. ''This settlement is another significant step toward resolving our exposure to claims arising from the financial crisis,'' the bank said in its statement.
The class action was filed on behalf of investors who bought 48 offerings of preferred stock and bonds, the law firm said. The proposed settlement, which will be reviewed by Judge Sidney H. Stein in Federal District Court in Manhattan, comes after more than four years of litigation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (92%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BERNSTEIN LITOWITZ BERGER & GROSSMANN LLP (71%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (71%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



607 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: A Bank Levy In Cyprus, And Why Not to Worry

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Never mind.
The last 72 hours have been filled with breathless proclamations of impending disaster after the European Union and International Monetary Fund indicated that they planned to take money directly from depositors with bank accounts in Cyprus as part of a bailout of that country.
Analysts and politicians compared the bailout plan, the first to include a levy on deposits that were considered to be insured, to government-sponsored larceny, and said it would cause a run on banks across Europe, if not a full-fledged global crisis. 
''The very nature of banking has been shaken to its roots with this decision, for banking depends upon trust,'' Dennis Gartman, the investor, wrote in a note to his clients. ''Trust that has now been shattered; torn asunder, broken ... destroyed.''
Jim O'Neill, chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, called the decision an ''astonishing move'' with ''little thought of contagion to the rest of the euro zone, and indeed perhaps the world.''
Mark J. Grant, a market commentator who has been predicting an economic apocalypse in Europe for years, went so far as to compare the terms of the bailout with ''rape.'' He said: ''Pay attention please. The European Union and the European Central Bank and the I.M.F. have just advocated the confiscation of private property for their own indulgence.''
Even President Vladimir Putin of Russia got into the debate, given that much of the deposits in Cypriot banks are Russian. ''Mr. Putin said that such a decision, if adopted, would be unfair, unprofessional and dangerous,'' a spokesman said.
And yet here we are. And, well, nothing bad has happened.
There have been no re-enactments of ''It's a Wonderful Life,'' with people lined up around banks in Italy or Spain -- considered the next dominoes, if you believe the doomsayers. The stock markets in Europe dropped less than 1 percent. In the United States, investors shrugged their shoulders, too.
Why?
While the bailout of Cyprus is a fascinating case study and raises interesting theoretical questions about moral hazard for policy wonks and talking heads, here is the reality: It is largely irrelevant to the global economy. Cyprus is tiny; its economy is smaller than Vermont's. And the bailout is worth a paltry $13 billion, the equivalent of pocket lint for those in the bailout game.
Even the larger issue about bailing out a country by taking money from depositors -- which quickly created outrage around the world -- seems overblown.
The worry is that the European Union and I.M.F. have created a dangerous precedent by making depositors share in the pain of the bailout. Historically, the goal of bailouts has been to raise confidence in banks so depositors don't flee. The approach in Cyprus is at odds with that notion, raising questions about whether future bailouts in countries like Spain and Italy -- if they are needed -- could affect depositors.
The alarmist thinking is that depositors will move their money from troubled banks, creating a death spiral.
Even in the United States, some commentators used the Cyprus bailout as a scare tactic about what they speculated could eventually happen here.
''An executive order issued by the president to debit taxpayer bank accounts during a future financial emergency is entirely possible,'' Andrew Gause, author of ''The Secret World of Money,'' said in a news release.
But, in truth, the smart money knows that the bailout of Cyprus says very little about future actions.
''I would assume that anyone in Spain, Portugal or elsewhere who knows about the taxation of Cypriot depositors also would know that the Cypriot banking system is a very different animal than anywhere else in the euro zone,'' Erik Nielsen, chief economist at UniCredit, wrote in a note to clients.
Mr. O'Neill of Goldman also acknowledged: ''I am sure it will not set a precedent.''
Cyprus is unique. Besides being tiny, its banking system looks different from those in most other countries. Much of the big money deposited in its banks is from foreign investors, including Russians who have long been suspected of money laundering. Those investors had fair warning that Cypriot banks were troubled. The issue has been simmering for six months. But those investors left their money in the bank, in part because they were gambling that the banks would be bailed out at no cost to them. If the current plan is approved, depositors will have lost that bet.
Worse, the strategy employed in the bailout of Greece -- in which bondholders of its sovereign debt were paid less than face value -- will not work in Cyprus. Cyprus's banks own much of the country's debt, so any effort to reduce that debt by forcing debt holders to accept less would only make the banks more troubled.
Given the brutal history between Russia and so much of Europe -- and speculation that so much of the money is ill gotten -- it is clear why it would be so politically unpalatable to countries in the euro zone, Germany in particular, to bail out Russian depositors. And even if the move were to create a run on the banks in Cyprus, the contagion would be limited.
There is very little chance that politicians would ever choose to use the model they developed in Cyprus in a country like Italy or Spain, where a run on the banks would have such profound implications. By the way, if you're wondering why investors left so much money in troubled Cypriot banks, here's a trivia question: Would you have been better off leaving your money in a bank in the United States or in Cyprus over the last five years?
The answer: You would have been better off in Cyprus, even after the bailout, when your money was ''confiscated.'' If you had 100,000 euros in a Cypriot bank account over the last five years, where the interest rate has averaged about 5 percent, you would have about 127,600 euros today. Even after the bailout, which would require you to give up 10 percent of your deposit -- 12,760 euros -- you would be left with 114,840 euros. The American bank? The $100,000 you deposited at Bank of America five years ago is about $105,100, at the going rate of about 1 percent interest a year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); CASE STUDIES (69%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CYPRUS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



608 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of the 14th Amendment and the Debt Limit

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: The reasoning behind the 14th Amendment provision that addressed Civil War debt should be applied today, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
In 2011, Republicans in Congress drove the nation to the very brink of defaulting on the national debt. During that debate, a number of conservatives argued that default was no big deal - that the debt was so terrible that default was a reasonable option to be considered. Although few Republicans agreed with this position, probably all agreed with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate minority leader, that the debt limit was a hostage worth ransoming to force President Obama to surrender to their demands. 
The most recent debt-limit extension was enacted in January and expires on May 19. On March 12, Senator McConnell signaled that he again planned to hold it hostage to Republican demands that programs to aid the poor and elderly be slashed.
In a March 13 interview with the radio host Sean Hannity, the House speaker, John A. Boehner of Ohio, said repeal of the Affordable Care Act might be the ransom that will have to be paid for raising the debt limit. "Do you want to risk the full faith and credit of the United States government over Obamacare?" he said. "That's a very tough argument to make." 
In 2011, a number of respected legal scholars asserted that a little-known provision of the 14th Amendment to the Constitution essentially invalidated the debt limit. That provision states:
Sec. 4. The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and bounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned. But neither the United States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held illegal and void.

Other scholars contended that this constitutional provision was archaic, that it related to factors specific to the post-Civil War period and had no present-day relevance. On the contrary, I believe a careful review of the circumstances surrounding enactment of the 14th Amendment shows a great deal of similarity to those today.
Such a review was recently done by Franklin Noll, a historian who is a consultant to the Treasury Department's Bureau of Engraving and Printing, and posted on the Web site of the Social Science Research Network.
Mr. Noll points out that there was strong support for repudiating the Civil War debt among Democrats, who were closely aligned with the Confederate South. They were angered that Congress had explicitly repudiated all the Confederate debt, and had refused to compensate slave owners for freeing their valuable slaves, and Southerners had no desire to help pay the Union's debts.
One problem for Republicans was that the 13th Amendment abolished the clause in the Constitution that counted slaves as three-fifths of a man for the purpose of apportioning seats in the House of Representatives. The ironic result was to increase the South's representation in the House. The 11 states of the Confederacy saw their representatives rise to 73 in 1870 from 61 in 1860. They would also have 22 of the Senate's 74 seats.
It was feared that readmission of the Southern states, together with Democrats from the north, would provide enough votes to prevent passage of legislation to fund the debt. Hence Republicans believed it was essential to have constitutional protection for the national debt.
The forces of repudiation found strong support in the departing President Andrew Johnson, a Democrat from Tennessee whom Abraham Lincoln put on the Republican ticket in 1864 in a spirit of unity to save the Union. In his last State of the Union address, on Dec. 9, 1868, Johnson contended that the cost of the debt was so high that repudiation was justified. He declared:
This vast debt, if permitted to become permanent and increasing, must eventually be gathered into the hands of a few, and enable them to exert a dangerous and controlling power in the affairs of the government. The borrowers would become servants to the lenders, the lenders the masters of the people. We now pride ourselves upon having given freedom to 4,000,000 of the colored race; it will then be our shame that 40,000,000 of people, by their own toleration of usurpation and profligacy, have suffered themselves to become enslaved, and merely exchanged slave owners for new taskmasters in the shape of bondholders and tax gatherers.
Johnson proposed that the Treasury cease paying interest on a large portion of the debt and instead use that money to retire the debt. "The lessons of the past admonish the lender that it is not well to be over-anxious in exacting from the borrower rigid compliance with the letter of the bond," he said.
Supporters of repudiation, however, had two big political problems to overcome. First, much of the Civil War debt was owned by average people. Historically, financial institutions had bought almost all the Treasury's bonds, but the amount of bonds needed to be sold during the war required creation of a mass market for Treasury securities.
Second, the debt was closely identified in the public mind with the war itself. As Mr. Noll explains: "The wartime debt became inextricably entwined with the patriotism and moral purpose of the Civil War. To attack the public debt was therefore an attack on the wartime sacrifices and the righteousness of the war to preserve the Union and abolish slavery."
For this reason, people were willing to bear a much heavier burden of taxation than existed before the war, making the promises of tax relief from debt repudiation fall on deaf ears.
The purpose of the debt provision of the 14th Amendment was to say that national debt was beyond the realm of politics. In the wordsJack Balkin, a Yale law professor: "It was stated in broad terms in order to prevent future majorities in Congress from repudiating the federal debt to gain political advantage, to seek political revenge or to try to disavow previous financial obligations because of changed policy priorities."
Republican threats to hold the debt limit hostage to their agenda today present precisely the sort of political situation contemplated by the authors of the 14th Amendment.

        
The Debt Ceiling and Playing With Fire
        
The Debt Limit Is the Real Fiscal Cliff
        
Our Long-Term Fiscal Future Is Better Than It Looks
        
Mismeasurement of Federal Spending, Investment and Saving
        
Predicting a Crisis, Repeatedly

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEBT CEILING (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); WRITERS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); TAX REFORM (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); HISTORY (60%) Boehner, John A; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Fourteenth Amendment (US Constitution); Johnson, Andrew; McConnell, Mitch; National Debt (US); Republican Party; United States Politics and Government; Today's Economist

COMPANY: BUREAU OF ENGRAVING INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (50%); SIC2759 COMMERCIAL PRINTING, NEC (50%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (90%); JOHN BOEHNER (88%); RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Boehner, John A; Johnson, Andrew; McConnell, Mitch

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013



609 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Allegations of War Crimes in Sri Lanka Shake Indian Government

BYLINE: SRUTHI GOTTIPATI and HARI KUMAR


HIGHLIGHT: Tamil Nadu&#8217;s D.M.K. party wants the government to push Sri Lanka to investigate. 

 BODY:
NEW DELHI- The Congress Party faced a new crisis on Tuesday after a southern political party threatened to withdraw from the governing coalition if India did not join an international push to investigate alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka.
The possible pullout would leave the beleaguered United Progressive Alliance still in control of the Indian government, but it marks the latest case of arm-twisting by fractious government allies ahead of national elections scheduled for next year. 
The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, or D.M.K., the opposition party in the state of Tamil Nadu, withdrew five ministers from the governing coalition in order to pressure the government to adopt a resolution in Parliament declaring that genocide and war crimes have been committed against Tamils by the Sri Lankan army and administration. But the party has yet to make the withdrawal official by sending a letter to the president announcing the party's resignation.
This week, the United Nations Human Rights Council, which includes India, is expected to vote on a United States-backed resolution that urges Sri Lanka to deliver on promises to investigate allegations of a mass slaughter of Tamil civilians as the country's civil war ended in 2009 and also cites reports about possible continued atrocities. The D.M.K. has called for the United Nations resolution to explicitly accuse Sri Lanka of genocide.
Political parties in Tamil Nadu have often voiced their concerns about the welfare of the Tamil minority in Sri Lanka, the island nation off the south Indian coast, where Tamil rebels, known as the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam, or L.T.T.E, fought to gain autonomy for the Tamil regions of the country.
The D.M.K. said it wanted an independent international body to investigate what it describes as a genocide committed by the Sri Lankan government during the country's bloody 26-year civil war, The Hindu newspaper reported, citing a statement in Tamil by the party's chief, Muthuvel Karunanidhi. Human rights activists say that more than 40,000 Tamils died during the war.
Palaniappan Chidambaram, India's finance minister and a senior leader of the Congress-ruled governing coalition, said the D.M.K.'s absence would not cause the government to collapse.
"The government is absolutely stable and enjoys a majority in the Lok Sabha," he said, referring to the lower house of Parliament. Mr. Chidambaram, who is from Tamil Nadu, was also one of three senior Congress leaders who visited the D.M.K. chief on Monday, hoping to resolve the issue.
"This is not a crisis," he emphasized as he addressed reporters Tuesday morning.
The D.M.K. said it was withdrawing 18 legislators from the coalition in the Lower House of Parliament, but the Congress Party, which leads the United Progressive Alliance, looks unlikely to be toppled. That's because in order for the government to fall, a "no-confidence" vote would need to pass the lower house with a simple majority. Of the lower house's 540 seats, the Congress Party controls the lion's share with 203 seats and has enough additional support from outside parties, including 43 seats from two political parties in the state of Uttar Pradesh alone, to defeat any such vote.
Mr. Chidambaram said that the president of the Congress Party, Sonia Gandhi, and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh have been briefed about the D.M.K.'s demands and that all political parties are already being consulted on a possible Parliament resolution on the issue.
"We're examining the text of the final draft that came up before us last night," Mr. Chidambaram said, but he added that he was not aware of what stand each political party would take on the issue.
"We are fully committed to the cause of the Lankan Tamils and an impartial inquiry should happen into the allegations of atrocities against them," Mrs. Gandhi said Tuesday, according to the Press Trust of India. Mrs. Gandhi's husband, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, was killed in 1991 by a female suicide bomber believed to be associated with the L.T.T.E. in Sri Lanka.
Mr. Karunanidhi said the D.M.K. would reconsider the pullout if its demands are met, a position Mr. Chidambaram said Congress members have noted.
The D.M.K. is the second major political ally to threaten to yank its support from the governing coalition. In September, the All India Trinamool Congress, which governs the state of West Bengal, pulled out of the alliance, protesting a package of fuel price increases and pro-business economic changes.
Analysts say that the current standoff maybe just politics as usual as the D.M.K. struggles to draw attention to the plight of Tamils in Sri Lanka, a deeply emotional issue in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Over the past week, thousands of students across Tamil Nadu, including in Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Salem, have fasted,picketedandboycottedclasses as they demand an independent investigation into the Sri Lankan government's treatment of Tamils.
Indian police has issued arrest warrants for hundreds of university students in Chennai who were demonstrating against the Sri Lankan treatment of Tamils.
The recent upheaval in Tamil Nadu has been sparked by the recent release of disturbing photographs of the body of the former Tamil rebel leader's 12-year old son, who appeared to have been shot at close range in the chest, and a report on the continued abuse of Tamils in Sri Lanka. Many of the 72 million citizens of Tamil Nadu relate to and support Sri Lankan Tamils, with whom they share a common language.
On Tuesday, Parliament was disrupted over the issue, which has drawn heated debate on the House floor in recent days.

        
Tamil Nadu Students Protest Alleged Human Rights Abuses in Sri Lanka
        
Are India and Italy on a Collision Course?
        
A Difficult Budget Balancing Act for India
        
Free Expert Advice for Rahul Gandhi
        
Doing the U.P.A. Shuffle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); GENOCIDE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ETHNICITY (59%) All India Trinamool Congress; Chidambaram, Palaniappan; Elections; Gandhi, Rajiv; Gandhi, Sonia; India; Indian National Congress; Legislatures and Parliaments; Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam; Senate; Sri Lanka; Tamil Nadu (India); Tamils (Ethnic Group); War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

ORGANIZATION: All India Trinamool Congress; Indian National Congress; Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam; Senate

PERSON: SONIA GANDHI (90%) Chidambaram, Palaniappan; Gandhi, Rajiv; Gandhi, Sonia

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%) TAMIL NADU, INDIA (99%); SOUTH INDIA (92%) INDIA (99%); SRI LANKA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) India; Sri Lanka; Tamil Nadu (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013



610 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: The Mumbai/New York Photo Project: Music and Dance

BYLINE: NISHA SONDHE and NEHA THIRANI BAGRI


HIGHLIGHT: Musicians and artists often transcend their nations, borrowing from others&#8217; cultures and making new hybrids 

 BODY:
The grand cities of Mumbai and New York differ from each other in a million ways, but are brought together by a few common strands - their entrepreneurial spirit, their dynamic "always on-the-go" nature, their lively sidewalks, their gorgeous coastlines, the diversity of their residents who bring unique culture and religion and their vibrant music scene. 
While preachers of globalization talk of economic exchange, it is often musicians and artists who transcend their nations, borrowing from others' cultures and making new hybrids. In the sixth edition of the Mumbai/New York photo project, Nisha Sondhe photographs some of the musicians and artists building bridges between the two cities. 
Mazz Swift, a New York-based violinist, embodies the ways in which exposure to diverse traditions shape an artist's musical practice. Having started out as a classical violinist, over the course of her musical career she has experimented with jazz, hip-hop, improvisational rock music, traditional Irish fiddling, Hungarian gypsy music and Afro-Brazilian music from the northeast of Brazil.
"Cross-cultural exchange has been really key to my development as an artist," said Ms. Swift. "It's a really rich place from which I gather inspiration and I wouldn't have it any other way." In her travels Ms. Swift plays with local musicians and learns their traditional music, and then incorporates elements from it into her own style to produce a unique sound.
Meanwhile, classical Western music is growing in popularity in India. The Symphony Orchestra of India, established in 2006 by Khushroo N. Suntook, chairman of the National Centre for the Performing Arts and the violinist Marat Bisengaliev, is the country's first professional symphony orchestra. Its mission is to generate enthusiasm for western classical music among young people in India and develop musical talent. "The major challenge was to set up a system which would allow us to invite the best Indian players and fast track them by intensive coaching by highly experienced musicians," said Mr. Bisengaliev, who was born in Kazakhstan. "Up till now there were no specialized music schools with established systems, hence there was an absolute lack of good musicians."
In New York, Alvin Ailey founded The Ailey School in 1969 based on the belief that "dance instruction should be made available to everyone." To this day, the school attempts to make American dance accessible to young and old alike through innovative community outreach programs. Tracy Inman, co-director of The Ailey School, was trained at the school and performed with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. "I had never taken a men's ballet class before and had no idea of what was required," said Mr. Inman, recalling his first year at The Ailey School. "My first class was a rude awakening. Most of the terminology I had never heard or thought humanly possible. Eventually, I managed to sort it all out."
In Mumbai, one of India's leading choreographers, Shiamak Davar, recalled his own struggle after deciding to take up dance. Coming from a family of educators, Mr. Davar had studied commerce. Then he traveled to London to attend a summer school for acting, singing and dance. Upon his return to Mumbai, he started a dance school, with seven students in his first class, mostly friends and relatives. "I faced a lot of humiliation and ridicule. People said 'Boys don't dance, and if girls dance then who will marry them?' But I believed in God and my spiritual guides, and I didn't give up," he said.
Today Mr. Davar, the founder and artistic director of the Shiamak Davar Dance Company in Mumbai, is considered one of the pioneers of modern dance in India. His dance company has performed all over the world and his classes have reached millions of dance enthusiasts across India, Canada, Australia, the United Arab Emirates and Britain. By bringing contemporary modern dance into India and showcasing India's heritage to people across the globe, he hopes to "unite people through dance and the performing arts," he said.
Another pioneer, the musician Louis Banks, has done much to popularize jazz music in India over the last 30 years. He has traveled throughout the world picking up varied influences, and brought them back to India. "When we were touring Europe, Russia and Portugal in the '80's we met musicians who could not speak English but were excellent jazz musicians, hence the rapport was instant," said Mr. Banks of his tour with his first fusion band, Sangam. "We played jazz of high standards without speaking to each other and became friends and had a great time - that's the magic of jazz."
Although he has collaborated with artists from all over the world, Mr. Banks said that his Indian heritage allows him to draw from both Indian classical music and classic jazz.
In New York, DJ Rekha has brought the rich North Indian tradition of bhangra to the city. In 1997, she founded Basement Bhangra and has been staging monthly parties in order to "have a space that showcased the kind of bhangra and hip-hop music I liked,'' she said. "I always want to be part of the New York scene and be more inclusive."

        
Portraits From the Kochi Biennale: Video Artist Angelica Mesiti
        
A Conversation With: Actor-Director Naseeruddin Shah
        
Eclectic Art From Parsi Estate Draws High Bids
        
India Woos Israel With Three Week Festival
        
Mumbai's 'Focus' Festival Showcases Women Photographers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (94%); DANCE (92%); MUSIC (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); THEATER (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); DANCE EDUCATION (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); RAP MUSIC (71%); RELIGION (71%); BALLET (68%) Ailey, Alvin, American Dance Theater; Art; Classical Music; Culture (Arts); Dancing; India; jazz; Mumbai (India); Music; Jazz; The Mumbai/New York Photo Project

ORGANIZATION: Ailey, Alvin, American Dance Theater

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); ASIA (79%) India; Mumbai (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2013



611 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Rebutting the Contention That Small Is Better for Banks

BYLINE: RICHARD E. FARLEY


HIGHLIGHT: In relation to the economy it supports, the United States banking system is relatively small compared with those of other developed countries, so breaking up banks doesn&#8217;t seem justified, the author writes. 

 BODY:

Richard E. Farley is a partner in the leveraged finance group of the law firm Paul Hastings and is writing "The Crisis Not Wasted - The Creation of Modern Financial Regulation During F.D.R.'s First Five Hundred Days," a book on the creation of modern financial regulation during President Franklin Roosevelt's first term of office.
The Dallas Federal Reserve Bank president, Richard W. Fisher, has again reignited the debate about what to do about "too big to fail" banks. 
Five years after the financial crisis, it seems that the issue of bank concentration has never been resolved. In several recent speeches as well as a recent opinion article in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Fisher expressed the view that it may be time to break up big institutions because "their privileged status places them above the rule of law." He further argues that the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul that was supposed to help fix the problem didn't.
Mr. Fisher has made many arguments in favor of limiting the size of banks. The first is that a larger size "emboldens a sense of immunity from the law." 
He acknowledges that he has borrowed this thought from the recent Senate testimony of Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who claimed that when banks are too big to fail, "it is difficult to prosecute them" adding that criminal charges against a large institution could hurt the economy.
However, I challenge Mr. Holder (or Mr. Fisher) to pick up the business section of any major newspaper in any given week without reading about a government proceeding against a big bank. All these inquiries and actions have yet to dent economic growth or market performance, as witnessed by the new records that the major indexes seem to be setting daily.
Regardless of this, Mr. Fisher and Harvey Rosenblum, the executive vice president of the Dallas Federal Reserve Bank, have proposed scrapping Dodd Frank in its entirety and replacing it with their three-prong plan to make all banks "a size that is too small to save."
First, Mr. Fisher and Mr. Rosenblum suggest rolling back deposit insurance and access to the Federal Reserve discount window to only traditional banks and excluding nonbank affiliates of bank holding companies or parent companies of banks. Here, they are pushing against an open door: deposit insurance has never applied to anything other than deposits located at traditional banks (nonbank affiliates cannot even offer deposits backed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation). The Federal Reserve already limits access to its discount window to "depository institutions" - insured banks, mutual savings banks, credit unions and savings associations. 
Another step calls for having all customers, creditors and counterparties of all nonbank affiliates and parent holding companies "sign a simple, legally binding, unambiguous disclosure acknowledging and accepting that there is no government guarantee - ever - backstopping their investment." 
This part seems to be a red herring at best. There is not, nor has there ever been, a "legally binding" government guarantee of investments in banks. That is why bank bailouts are morally offensive to many - because there was no consideration given by recipients of the government largesse. A signed acknowledgment would never prohibit another bank bailout if future policy makers saw fit to undertake one.
The final argument presented is one that cannot so easily be dismissed: that mega-banks can raise capital more cheaply than smaller banks because of an implicit belief they will receive some government assistance if they risk insolvency. This is undoubtedly true, and is actually quantifiable. 
But is the answer to this unfair subsidy breaking up the banks? Another possible remedy would be to require additional capital reserves or enact a surcharge to finance future bailouts if assets exceed a certain level. This approach would "even the playing field," if that is the concern.
The size of the banks in the financial system is hardly the real issue. In relation to the economy it supports, the United States banking system is relatively small compared with those of other developed countries. As a percentage of G.D.P., total banking assets in the United States were about 117 percent in 2011 - less than in France (421 percent), Britain, (373 percent), Germany (332 percent) and even Canada (138 percent).
Second, the American banking system is less concentrated than the banking systems of most developed countries. By total assets, the five largest American banks held a smaller portion of G.D.P. in 2011 than in most other developed nations. The five big banks hold about 56 percent, compared with 309 percent in Britain and 116 percent in Germany. The United States banking industry is about as concentrated as Turkey's (55 percent).
And let's not forget the most important statistic in this debate: historically, small banks in the United States pose the highest risk of failure. During the Great Depression, more than 9,000 banks failed, nearly all of them small. 
Because they were too small to save, panic led to the meltdown of the financial system, resulting in a nationwide bank shutdown and subsequent systemwide Federal Reserve bailout to enable the banks to reopen. Through this historical prism, banks that are "too big to fail" look to be a better example, and it is perhaps why the rest of the developed world doesn't share our "big is bad" obsession.

        
Questions Remain About New Plan on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Regulators Postpone Some Basel Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (94%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); WRITERS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); DEREGULATION (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (65%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); CREDIT UNIONS (60%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Deposit Insurance; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Fisher, Richard W; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; United States Economy; Another View; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Wall Street

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (73%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (73%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (73%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: ERIC HOLDER (56%) Fisher, Richard W

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



612 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Chase Is Reining In Payday Lenders

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Bank customers will be allowed to stop withdrawals for high-interest payday loans and close their accounts sooner. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase will make changes to protect consumers who have borrowed money from a rising power on the Internet - payday lenders offering short-term loans with interest rates that can exceed 500 percent.
JPMorgan, the nation's largest bank by assets, will give customers whose bank accounts are tapped by the online payday lenders more power to halt withdrawals and close their accounts.
Under changes to be unveiled on Wednesday, JPMorgan will also limit the fees it charges customers when the withdrawals set off penalties for returned payments or insufficient funds. 
 The policy shift is playing out as the nation's biggest lenders face heightened scrutiny from federal and state regulators for enabling online payday lenders to thwart state law. With 15 states banning payday loans, a growing number of the lenders have set up online operations in more hospitable states or foreign locales like Belize, Malta and the West Indies to more nimbly dodge statewide caps on interest rates.
Bank of America and Wells Fargo said that their policies on payday loans remained unchanged.
At an investor meeting in February, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, called the practice, which was the subject of an article in The New York Times last month, "terrible." He vowed to change it.
While JPMorgan Chase never directly made the loans, the bank, along with other major banks, is a critical link for the payday lenders. The banks allow the lenders to automatically withdraw payments from borrowers' bank accounts, even in states like New York where the loans are illegal. The withdrawals often continue unabated, even after customers plead with the banks to stop the payments, according to interviews with consumer lawyers, banking regulators and lawmakers.
The changes at JPMorgan, which will go into effect by the end of May, will keep bank customers from racking up hundreds of dollars in fees, generated when the payday lenders repeatedly try to debit borrowers' accounts. Still, the changes will not prevent the payday lenders from extending high-cost credit to people living in the states where the loans are banned.
It is possible that other lenders could institute changes, especially because rivals have followed JPMorgan's lead in recent years. In 2009, for example, after JPMorgan capped overdraft fees at three a day, Wells Fargo also changed its policies to reduce the number of daily penalties charged.
The changes come as state and federal officials are zeroing in on how the banks enable online payday lenders to bypass state laws that ban the loans. By allowing the payday lenders to easily access customers' accounts, the authorities say the banks frustrate government efforts to protect borrowers from the loans, which some authorities have decried as predatory.
Both the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau are scrutinizing how the banks enable the lenders to dodge restrictions, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter. In New York, where JPMorgan has its headquarters, Benjamin M. Lawsky, the state's top banking regulator, is investigating the bank's role in enabling lenders to break state law, which caps interest rates on loans at 25 percent.
Facing restrictions across the country, payday lenders have migrated online and offshore. There is scant data about how many lenders have moved online, but as of 2011, the volume of online payday loans was $13 billion, up more than 120 percent from $5.8 billion in 2006, according to John Hecht, an analyst with the investment bank Stephens Inc.
By 2016, Mr. Hecht expects Internet loans to dominate the payday lending landscape, making up about 60 percent of the total payday loans extended.
JPMorgan said that the bank will charge only one returned item fee per lender in a 30-day period when customers do not have enough money in their accounts to cover the withdrawals.
That shift is likely to help borrowers like Ivy Brodsky, 37, who was charged $1,523 in fees - a combination of insufficient funds, service fees and overdraft fees - in a single month after six Internet payday lenders tried to withdraw money from her account 55 times.
Another change at JPMorgan is intended to address the difficulty that payday loan customers face when they try to pay off their loans in full. Unless a customer contacts the online lender three days before the next withdrawal, the lender just rolls the loan over automatically, withdrawing solely the interest owed.
Even borrowers who contact lenders days ahead of time can find themselves lost in a dizzying Internet maze, according to consumer lawyers. Requests are not honored, callers reach voice recordings and the withdrawals continue, the lawyers say.
For borrowers, frustrated and harried, the banks are often the last hope to halt the debits. Although under federal law customers have the right to stop withdrawals, some borrowers say their banks do not honor their requests.
Polly Larimer, who lives in Richmond, Va., said she begged Bank of America last year to stop payday lenders from eroding what little money she had in her account. Ms. Larimer said that the bank did not honor her request for five months. In that time period, she was charged more than $1,300 in penalty fees, according to bank statements reviewed by The Times. Bank of America declined to comment.
To combat such problems, JPMorgan said the bank will provide training to their employees so that stop-payment requests are honored.
JPMorgan will also make it much easier for customers to close their bank accounts. Until now, bank customers could not close their checking accounts unless all pending charges have been settled. The bank will now allow customers to close accounts if pending charges are deemed "inappropriate."
Some of the changes at JPMorgan Chase echo a bill introduced in July by Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, to further rein in payday lending.
A critical piece of that bill, pending in Congress, would enable borrowers to more easily halt the automatic withdrawals. The bill would also force lenders to abide by laws in the state where the borrower lives, rather than where the lender is.
JPMorgan Chase said it is "working to proactively identify" when lenders misuse automatic withdrawals. When the bank identifies those problems, it said, it will report errant lenders to the National Automated Clearing House Association, which oversees electronic withdrawals.

        
Lesson Learned After Financial Crisis: Nothing Much Has Changed
        
Senate Report on JPMorgan Loss May Provide Fresh Evidence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (93%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (83%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



613 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1791 words

HEADLINE: Decision Point: Understanding the U.S.'s Dilemma Over North Korea

BYLINE: TOM MARSHALL and MICHAEL GONCHAR


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students will play the role of White House advisers, exploring policy options and recommending the best strategy for preventing war in East Asia. 

 BODY:
 Overview | Should the United States rely on diplomacy and incentives or military confrontation to deal with a nuclear-armed North Korea? In this lesson, students will play the role of White House advisers, exploring policy options and recommending the best strategy for preventing war in East Asia.

 Materials | Computer with Internet connection and projector to display articles and video, computers with Internet connection for individual students or groups to use online resources, copies of stories or primary documents as needed.
 Warm-Up | Tell students:
 Good morning, and welcome to the Situation Room at the White House. How many of you have heard about problems lately regarding North Korea? (Show of hands.) 
 Today we're going to start an activity that puts each one of you in the role of White House adviser, assigned with researching and giving advice to the president on how to deal with the crisis. 
 But first, does anyone have an idea about what this crisis is about? What has been going on in North Korea and East Asia that might provoke concern for the United States? 
Write down student brainstorming ideas on the board under the heading, "Brainstorming: Situation in North Korea." Teachers may also wish to point out North Korea and its neighbors on a world map.
Next, explain to students that they will use this online timeline with a partner to try to tell the story of North Korea's nuclear weapons program. Pairs should decide what they think are the 10 most important events in the timeline, and write down the dates as well as an event summary on Handout A.
When pairs complete their timeline, students should share some of the key events they selected with the whole class. Then the class should discuss the following questions:

        
What would you say is the nature of the problem facing the United States? 
        
Why do you think North Korea is behaving this way?
 Related | In the article, "New Leader Sees Gains From Test," Choe Sang-Hun reports on the politics behind North Korea's recent provocations and hostile rhetoric.
By announcing the detonation of a nuclear device, Kim Jong-un, the young leader of North Korea, seemed to be attempting to raise his status as a worthy leader at home and as a foe to be taken seriously among the countries his government considers its enemies.
Mr. Kim - believed to be in his late 20s when he took over the militaristic government after the death of his father, Kim Jong-il, in late 2011 - has recently emphasized a better living standard for his long-suffering people, generating hopes that he might lead the country out of its isolation. But at the same time, he has shown himself to be his father's son, launching a long-range rocket in December and threatening more missile and nuclear tests in the face of sanctions.
With the test Tuesday, Mr. Kim appeared to have chosen his path for now, and analysts said there were good reasons for that.
 Background Vocabulary: Read the entire article with your class, then answer the questions below. You may wish to introduce students to the following words or concepts before reading: sanctions, United Nations Security Council, intercontinental ballistic missiles.
 Questions | For reading comprehension and discussion: 

        
Does North Korea seem to want war with its neighbors and the United States?
        
Is it possible something else is going on? 
        
What could be motivating North Korea's behavior?
 North Korea: U.S. Foreign Policy Simulation 
 Simulation: Research and Opening Statements (Part 1) 
Explain to students that they will be assigned to research and recommend a course of action for the United States. Students will spend the first part of the simulation reading articles, brainstorming with a partner and developing their main points. Then, the class will gather around a table in the White House Situation Room, make introductory remarks to the president and listen carefully to what the other teams have to say.
To make the simulation feel more authentic, and to ensure that the presentations include multiple points of view, you can assign students to one of the teams in Handout B (PDF). 
While students are researching their positions, they may want to write down important points, including key sources or quotations to support their point of view.
When students have completed their initial research, ask each group to make an opening presentation in which they set out their position. As they listen, students should take notes on their competitors' positions so that they write the strongest argument (Part 2) and are prepared with rebuttals during the closing statements (Part 3). 
 Questions to Consider 
You may want your students to consider some or all of the following questions as they conduct their research. Alternatively, you may want to assign each group one question from the list below to research, and forgo the teams on Handout B.

        
What's the best way to influence a government that seems bent on confrontation and a military response? Read these recent letters to The New York Times for different points of view.
        
Should South Korea and the United States respond to nuclear threats by putting more nuclear missiles in the region, or would that risk a nuclear arms race on the peninsula? Consider these points of view on the question.
        
Is the United States' decision to improve its missile defense system a viable and effective option for containing North Korea's threats, or is China correct in suggesting that it poses risks? Does North Korea really have the ability to hit the United States with a nuclear missile?
        
Based on recent history, does North Korea appear to respond better to diplomatic engagement and incentives or to confrontation and sanctions? Is there a risk of war if military drills spin out of control
        
Should North Korea's threats about attacking the United States be taken seriously, or are they intended for domestic consumption as a new leader tries to solidify his own power? Is it possible that North Korea's new leader, Kim Jong-un, is bluffing out of fear of the United States and would prefer peace to war?
        
Can diplomacy by celebrities, like the American basketball star Dennis Rodman, succeed where professional diplomacy fails? Or can it make matters worse?
        
Does China seem able and willing to influence North Korea's behavior or support international sanctions?
        
Can Internet technology and commerce, like the introduction of Google Maps and a recent visit by the company's chairman and his daughter, help to open up North Korea to the outside world?
        
What is life like for ordinary people in North Korea, and do they seem to favor peace and economic development or conflict?
[Video: A North Korean propaganda video shows a computer-animated representation of Lower Manhattan in flames as bombs rain down. Watch on Youtube.]
 Simulation: Written Component (Part 2) 
Now that students have made their opening presentations and listened to other points of view, they should now write a formal memorandum to the president outlining their position on North Korea. They can maintain their initial position, or they can adapt it to include compelling arguments by other students.
In their memo, they should cite evidence and use quotations from The Times or other sources to support their point of view. No matter what position they ultimately decide to take, they should also address counterclaims that another presidential adviser might make. 
You may wish to spend several days on this component, helping students to improve initial drafts or editing peers' drafts to sharpen their arguments.
 Simulation: Final Statements and Decision (Part 3) 
For the last part of the simulation, students should return to their teams and prepare final statements to deliver to the president. Since students' positions might have shifted when they wrote their own presidential memos, teams will need some time to form a consensus and figure out what advice they want to give the president. Students should also prepare at least one tough question that they would like to ask another group in order to challenge their argument. 
After preparing, each group should make their final presentations. Then, each group queries another group and allows that group to respond briefly.
You may want to consider closing the simulation with a "Four Corners" activity, in which students have to physically stand up and move around the room to show their final policy position on North Korea. Do they prefer negotiations, a strong defense, modernization and trade, or an emphasis on China - or some combination of these choices? The class can discuss how their positions changed from the beginning of the simulation to the end, and why they changed. 
If you decided to play the role of president, you may want to announce the winning position based on the quality of arguments and evidence presented, whether or not that position garnered the largest number of votes.
For more Learning Network lessons and teaching ideas on North Korea, visit our collection "Resources for Teaching About North Korea and Kim Jong-il"
Common Core ELA Anchor Standards, 6-12
 Reading 
1. Read closely to determine what the text says explicitly and to make logical inferences from it; cite specific textual evidence when writing or speaking to support conclusions drawn from the text.
2. Determine central ideas or themes of a text and analyze their development; summarize the key supporting details and ideas.
8. Delineate and evaluate the argument and specific claims in a text, including the validity of the reasoning as well as the relevance and sufficiency of the evidence.
 Writing 
1. Write arguments to support claims in an analysis of substantive topics or texts, using valid reasoning and relevant and sufficient evidence.
2. Write informative/explanatory texts to examine and convey complex ideas and information clearly and accurately through the effective selection, organization and analysis of content.
8. Gather relevant information from multiple print and digital sources, assess the credibility and accuracy of each source, and integrate the information while avoiding plagiarism.
 Speaking and Listening 
1. Prepare for and participate effectively in a range of conversations and collaborations with diverse partners, building on others' ideas and expressing their own clearly and persuasively.
McREL Standards
 World History 
44. Understands the search for community, stability and peace in an interdependent world.
45. Understands major global trends since World War II.
46. Understands long-term changes and recurring patterns in world history.

        
With New Round of U.N. Sanctions, North Korea Threatens Pre-emptive Nuclear Strike
        
North Korea Completes Third Nuclear Test
        
North and South Korea Clash
        
Teaching the Cold War With The New York Times
        
Parody Article Taken Seriously?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HISTORY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (77%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (68%); LIVING STANDARDS (50%) Kim Jong-un; North Korea; nuclear weapons; American History; China; Crises Around the World; Global History; International Relations; Korean War; Lesson Plans; Social Studies; U.S. Presidency; United States Intervention in Foreign Affairs

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (79%); KIM JONG UN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



614 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: What If You Hate Mountains?

BYLINE: EMILY BRENNAN


HIGHLIGHT: In a recent report from the World Economic Forum analyzing 140 countries&#8217; competitiveness in travel and tourism, Switzerland ranked first. 

 BODY:
In a recent report from the World Economic Forum analyzing 140 countries' competitiveness in travel and tourism, Switzerland (above) ranked first, and the United States was sixth. The factors that determined a country's ranking include its tourism infrastructure, appeal to business travelers and friendliness (in that last category, Iceland scored high marks and Bolivia finished last).

        
Walkabout - 3/18: Second Life for Hong Kong Airport; Street View at 22,000 Feet
        
Another Carnival Gets Stuck, This Time in Port
        
Calendar: Coming Events in Thailand, India, Singapore
        
Access to the Yaeyamas
        
Speeding Through China
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TOURISM (88%); RANKINGS (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%) Travel and Vacations; World Economic Forum; Switzerland

ORGANIZATION: World Economic Forum

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (92%); HONG KONG (92%); THAILAND (79%); CHINA (79%) Switzerland

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



615 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: 'No Silver Bullet' for Reaching Fuel and Emissions Goals, Study Says

BYLINE: JIM MOTAVALLI


HIGHLIGHT: Tougher fuel economy standards and surcharges for inefficient vehicles are among options cited for reducing fuel consumption. 

 BODY:
The United States could possibly achieve the goal of an 80 percent reduction in oil use and greenhouse gas emissions from cars and small trucks by 2050, but it will not be easy, a National Research Council report said. 
Simply making conventional vehicles more fuel efficient cannot by itself bring the target within reach, the report, which was released on Monday, says. Average fleet fuel economy "would have to exceed 180 m.p.g.," which "is extremely unlikely, at least with current identifiable technologies," says the report from the council, which is an arm of the National Academy of Sciences.
The committee preparing the report focused on vehicles running on electricity, biofuels or hydrogen, as well as conventional cars and trucks with high-efficiency gasoline technology. The committee concluded that the wide deployment of at least two of them would have to be combined with strong federal policy if the goal were to be met. Natural gas vehicles were given credit for their ability to reduce oil consumption, but were faulted for their limited impact on carbon dioxide emissions.
"There's no single pathway, no silver bullet adequate by itself to meet the goals," Douglas M. Chapin, chairman of the committee, said in a conference call. "The goals are difficult but not impossible to meet if supported by strong national policies." He added that even partial success "will yield valuable benefits."
Government initiatives, the report says, could include fuel economy standards tougher than the federal goal for 2025 of 54.5 miles per gallon; support for research and development; rebate incentives for buyers of efficient cars and surcharges for inefficient purchases; and campaigns to familiarize consumers with the new options.
The report is somewhat pessimistic about electric car progress. Although battery costs may drop, the report said that "limited range and long recharge times are likely to limit the use of all-electric vehicles mainly to local driving." Advanced battery technologies are being developed, it said, "but all face serious technical challenges."
John M. German, senior fellow at the International Council on Clean Transportation, said in the conference call that the committee projected that the energy density of lithium-ion batteries could be two to three times greater than it was today and that the cost of a battery pack a quarter as much.
By 2050, vehicles with 100-mile-range batteries and hydrogen power could become cheaper than cars and trucks with advanced internal-combustion drivetrains, the report says. But there are other challenges. Fuel-cell vehicles avoid the range and recharging limitations of electric vehicles, the report says, but building a network of expensive hydrogen stations will be "difficult and expensive."
Cellulosic biofuels show some promise and could lead to big reductions in oil use and greenhouse gas emissions, but "achievable production levels are uncertain," the report says. It also envisions a possible future for biofuels that can be refined into a product that is chemically similar to gasoline.
The report also looked beyond the tailpipe. "To really impact automotive greenhouse emissions, you have to control energy sector emissions, starting with the oil and gas sector today and from power plants as electric cars enter the market," John DeCicco, a committee member and research professor at the University of Michigan Energy Institute, said in a telephone interview.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (92%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (65%) Automobiles

COMPANY: ADVANCED BATTERY TECHNOLOGIES INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS335912 PRIMARY BATTERY MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



616 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(At War)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: A Decade Later, Stability Eludes Iraq

BYLINE: JOHN F. BURNS


HIGHLIGHT: The reverberations of the American-led invasion are still being felt in Iraq, which remains a deeply divided, violence-plagued country that some fear may be headed for a full-blown civil war. 

 BODY:
The first American bombs and missiles to hit Baghdad were four 2,000-pound bunker-busters dropped by two F-117 Nighthawk fighter-bombers and 40 Tomahawk cruise missiles, a thunderous volley aimed at killing Saddam Hussein and his two sons in a secret underground redoubt beside the Tigris River known as Dora Farms. The impacts, some missing their targets, came soon after first light on March 19, 2003. 
We knew within hours that Saddam and his sons, apparently tipped off that an attack was imminent, had survived. Only later did we learn that President George W. Bush had ordered the strike more than 15 hours ahead of the scheduled, all-out aerial attack on Baghdad, in the hope of killing all three men and other leaders of the Hussein government, and of bringing the war to an end almost before it began. But though it failed, the strike, announcing the onset of what proved to be a three-week campaign to topple Saddam, had an impact across central Baghdad that felt like Judgment Day. 
My vantage point was the Rashid Hotel, a fortress built by Saddam with its own elaborate underground bunkers, and it shuddered as though it might collapse. Plate-glass windows shattered, door frames buckled and the building swayed for minutes. Amid a choking cloud of cement and mortar dust, residents scrambled across floors strewn with shards of glass, steel and splintered wood, fearful the hotel itself would be attacked.
It was a menacing dawn for millions in the Iraqi capital, and for the small band of Western reporters who stayed on in Baghdad after Saddam and his sons defied a White House ultimatum to leave Iraq. We were filled with apprehension for our own survival, not from the bombs alone but also from the ever-lurking menace of the Mukhabarat, Saddam's secret police. 
A decade on, Saddam's survival that morning could stand as a metaphor for the ill fortune, misjudgment and waste that plagued the 2003 invasion and its aftermath. The reverberations are still being felt, above all in Iraq itself, which remains a deeply divided, violence-plagued country that some Iraqis fear may be headed for a full-blown civil war. And the arguments about the invasion and the justifications made for it at the time roll remorselessly on.
The war's architects in Washington and London believed that a rapid military success - which they foresaw as taking a relatively modest toll on Iraqi, American and British lives - would end a quarter of a century of murderous tyranny by Saddam. Beyond that, they hoped that the uprooting of his government would serve as a prelude to the rise of a civil society, the first of its kind in the modern Arab world, and a model for the benefits of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. 
Ten years on, those hopes seem mocked, if not yet wholly extinguished. 
Any reckoning now must begin with the grimly familiar chronicle of the war's costs, human and material. They include at least 115,000 Iraqi civilians killed, tens of thousands of others wounded, and a tide of more than two million refugees who fled to Iraq's neighboring states, to displaced lives that for many remain permanently blighted. 
For the invading nations, the toll has included the lives of nearly 5,000 soldiers, including 4,488 Americans. There were more than 32,000 injured Americans alone, many of them with such grievous wounds that they still struggle to rebuild their shattered lives. To that must be added the war's financial cost. For American taxpayers, the figure is roughly a trillion dollars, with tens of billions of that in the form of economic aid to Iraq that has been, according to Congressional inquiries, squandered or blatantly stolen.
All of that must be added to what Iraq has become, 15 months after the last American troops withdrew. 
Among some of the war's original powerful proponents, the anniversary has generated an argument - seen by their critics, inevitably, as a last-ditch rationale - that it is too soon to pass judgment on the wisdom of the decision to topple Saddam. 
One such voice is Paul D. Wolfowitz, deputy defense secretary when the invasion took place and now a scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative group in Washington. Iraq, Mr. Wolfowitz told The Sunday Times of London in an interview published at the weekend, could be compared with South Korea, an economic powerhouse 60 years after the war on the Korean Peninsula ended that nobody could have predicted after 10 or even 30 years. "We still don't know how all this is going to end" in Iraq, he said.
But there are a host of rather more pessimistic prognostications. In assessments prepared for the 10th anniversary, a wide array of Western reporters, human rights organizations and relief agencies have concluded that, despite the years of American arbitration with Iraqi politicians to produce a democratic architecture and to foster civil society, the Iraq of 2013 is a spectral version, at best, of the ideal that President Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair invoked when they went to war. 
Some of the harsher conclusions portray today's Iraq as having elements of what might be called Saddam Lite: less of the grotesque brutality, but less stability, too. 
Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, the third and last prime minister installed while the United States retained its military presence and political influence, leads an alliance, the State of Law Coalition, that won less than 25 percent of the 19 million votes cast in the last election in 2010. But the ethnic and sectarian splintering of the electorate, and the resulting absence of a coherent opposition, as well as his personal control of the muscular army and police - forces constructed under American tutelage - have allowed him leeway rare for an elected official, in the view of his rivals but also of many Western observers. 
A common view is that his leadership has replaced the Saddam era's Sunni repression of the majority Shiites with the Shiite repression of the minority Sunnis. Sinister earmarks of this, his critics say, are the kind of abuses that filled human rights dossiers under Saddam, and are now carried out by thuggish gangs that have proliferated under Mr. Maliki's rule. These abuses include kidnappings; assassinations; arbitrary arrests; faceless denunciations, often rooted in personal grudges; secret prisons; torture and disappearances; and dozens of executions, many of people accused of being Sunni extremists, and allowed little in the way of a real defense, according to a report last summer by a special United Nations investigator. 
As under Saddam, corruption has been rampant, with accusations abounding against Shiite politicians and warlords, who are said to have siphoned off a major share of Iraq's $100 billion in revenue from its booming oil sector. The Maliki government's critics say that has starved efforts to repair and upgrade the schools, sewage systems, power plants and other basic infrastructure the country desperately needs. 
Whatever the cause, the social costs are pervasive.
In Baghdad, whole neighborhoods are awash with sewage, despite the billions allocated under the Americans for the rebuilding of a waste system neglected under Saddam. The story with electricity is similar, with many who live in the capital still getting power perhaps 12 hours a day, often much less, despite billions spent on new power lines and generating stations. 
The most depressing measure of the failure may lie in the voices of ordinary Iraqis who tell reporters that they wish Iraq could return to the way it was under Saddam, for all its miseries. And, just as commonly, Iraqis say that their principal aspiration is to emigrate somewhere, often the United States, where their yearnings for the hopes of 2003 - freedom, security, jobs, a chance at assured prosperity - can be fulfilled.
Such statements need not be taken entirely at face value. "Bring back Saddam" was a refrain that became common early on after the invasion, and few, then, seemed to really mean it when the conversation explored all that that would entail.
Nonetheless, these anguished voices reflect an underlying reality.
With the growing drumbeat of bombings and assassinations that the Maliki government has blamed on cells of Sunni extremists, like the attacks on Tuesday that killed dozens of people in Baghdad, there are many Iraqis who fear that the country is headed back toward civil war. They remember with horror the bloody struggles between Shiite and Sunni factions that swept the country's heartland before the steadying impact of the American military surge of 2007 that set the stage, ultimately, for the withdrawal in 2011. 
So far, the violence, with about 50 Iraqis killed a week, is a long way from the 3,000 who were dying every month at the nadir of the American occupation. But there are ominous portents, not least in Syria, that things could get very much worse. 
For Iraq, the events in Syria have deep repercussions, centering on the fact that the Syrian opposition forces are seeking to achieve a mirror image of what occurred a decade ago in Iraq. This time, the surging revolt is mostly Sunni, and its hated target is President Bashar al-Assad, a member of the Alawite offshoot of Shiism and standard- bearer for Syria's minority Shiites. 
With Iraq's Sunnis concentrated in two provinces, Anbar and Nineveh, that share a lengthy desert border with Syria., Mr. Maliki himself has warned that a Sunni government in Damascus could be enough to encourage a Sunni attempt to seize back power in Baghdad. 
Should that occur, it might mean that the 2003 invasion did not, after all, end the centuries of political primacy Iraq's Sunnis had enjoyed, and history would be all the more likely to consign the American occupation to the roll-call of imperial ventures - by the Macedonians, the Persians, the Ottoman Turks and the British, among others - that have disappeared over the millenniums beneath the sands of Iraq.

        
A Witness to 4 Iraqi Wars, but No More
        
A Diarist at War
        
How One Soldier Learned the Iraq War Was On
        
Still Reeling From the Death of Chris Kyle, a SEAL Brother
        
Remembering Chris Kyle, a Deadly American Sniper

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); RELIGION (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); TERRORISM (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%) Bush, George W; Hussein, Saddam; Iraq; Iraq War (2003-11); Maliki, Nuri Kamal al-; Muslims and Islam; Terrorism; Wolfowitz, Paul D; At War; History; Iraq War: 2003 - 2011; Iraqi Government & Politics; U.S. Defense and Military Forces

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (73%) Bush, George W; Hussein, Saddam; Maliki, Nuri Kamal al-; Wolfowitz, Paul D

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



617 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Port Authority, With Eye on Income, Will Pick Firm for Trade Center Observatory

BYLINE: CHARLES V. BAGLI


HIGHLIGHT: The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is expected to approve a 15-year deal with Legends Hospitality Management that it says could yield the agency $875 million over the contract&#8217;s life. 

 BODY:
New York's newest and tallest observation deck will offer an interactive immersion in all things New York as it shuttles visitors 102 floors into the sky and provides panoramic views of the city and beyond, from the harbor to Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
A projected 3.5 million visitors a year to the three-level observatory at 1 World Trade Center will be able see the history of New York City on video screens, punch up the number of available seats for a Broadway show or a Yankees game, and glimpse Rockefeller Center, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, West Point and MetLife Stadium in New Jersey. 
When the observatory opens more than 1,230 feet above Vesey Street in 2015, it will take its place among the highest decks in the nation, passing the one at the Empire State Building by a few feet but falling roughly 10 stories short of Chicago's Willis Tower Skydeck.
At its board meeting on Wednesday, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is expected to approve a 15-year deal with Legends Hospitality Management to operate the observation deck that, officials say, could generate as much as $875 million in revenue for the authority over the life of the contract. 
The contract is yet another indication that the 1,776-foot tower is nearing completion, a symbol of what officials say is the resilience of New York after the 2001 attack on the trade center. Port Authority officials view the deal as vindication for erecting one of the most expensive office towers built in the United States, at more than $3 billion.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said in a statement released Tuesday, "Today's announcement builds on the tremendous progress we have made at the World Trade Center site over the past couple of years and marks the continued rebirth of Lower Manhattan." He continued, "The observation deck will add hundreds of jobs in New York and add to the resurgence of the state economy."
The contract will put Legends, the company that runs marketing, merchandising and luxury boxes for the earthbound stadiums of the New York Yankees and the Dallas Cowboys, in charge of New York's highest perch. Although it has no experience running observation decks, Legends has guaranteed the Port Authority an annual rent and a percentage of revenues. It has also brought in Phil Hettema of the Hettema Group, who developed the Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man and other theme park attractions for Universal, to design the three-story attraction, which will cost about $62 million.
Legends, led by David W. Checketts, the former president of Madison Square Garden, won a fierce competition to run the observatory, outbidding seven rivals, including Montparnasse 56 USA, an affiliate of a French firm that runs observatories in Paris and Berlin and at the John Hancock Tower in Chicago.
Observatories, once an afterthought for every tall tower, have become a lucrative business. Indeed, the Empire State Building observation decks drew over four million visitors last year and generated net income of $60.6 million in 2011. If all goes according to plan, Port Authority officials expect the new observation deck in Lower Manhattan to account for a hefty 40 percent of the revenue from 1 World Trade Center.
But there is also lots of tower-top competition for visitors to New York City and the payments to the Port Authority will depend on a steady stream of visitors. The Related Companies announced last year that it had designed a multilevel observatory with an outdoor terrace for its planned 1,300-foot skyscraper at Hudson Yards on the West Side. It is unclear, however, when that tower will be built.
Top of the Rock, the observation deck at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in Midtown, reopened in 2005 and now draws about 2.5 million patrons. The better known Empire State Building, which has observatories on the 86th and 102nd floors, operates at capacity during peak holiday periods. In any event, Legends will need ties to travel operators in Asia and Europe who buy blocks of tickets at a substantial discount for tour packages. 
It is unlikely, experts say, that tourists will visit more than one observatory. Downtown, the Statue of Liberty, the September 11 Memorial and Museum and Wall Street will vie with 1 World Trade Center for their attention.
At 1 World Trade Center, visitors will enter one of five dedicated elevators that rise to the 102nd floor, where there will be an "experiential" theater presentation, which opens up to reveal the views, and an event space for private parties. There will be a restaurant and gift shop on the 101st floor and another observation deck on the 100th floor.

        
Readying a Destination at New York's New Summit
        
When a New Transit Project Is Announced, Expect Delays
        
After Irene, Focusing on Totally Cosmic Matters
        
Downtown Regains Its Compass in the Sky
        
Higher Bridge, Tunnel and PATH Rates Approved

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); BASEBALL (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%) 1 World Trade Center (NYC); Decks (Outdoor); Legends Hospitality Management; New York City; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Buildings and Landmarks; Sept. 11 and Ground Zero

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Legends Hospitality Management; Port Authority of New York and New Jersey

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (67%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



618 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: City Approves 700-Unit Rental Complex on Gowanus Canal

BYLINE: JOSEPH BERGER


HIGHLIGHT: The complex is to consist of two buildings of graduated heights, some as tall as 12 stories. Most apartments are to be sold at market prices, but 140, or 20 percent of them, are to be reserved for people of modest incomes. 

 BODY:
Gritty and offbeat as its reputation is, the Gowanus Canal may, in a few years, start becoming more bourgeois.
The City Planning Commission on Monday gave its approval for the construction of a 700-rental apartment complex on the largely industrial canal; it is to be built by one of the nation's largest developers, the Lightstone Group. The project had been opposed by many residents who feared it would overwhelm schools and subways and accelerate the transformation of a neighborhood still sprinkled with artists into another high-rent neighborhood, like Dumbo or SoHo. 
But many groups supported the project, not just because it would spruce up a derelict part of the neighborhood but also because it would create a new constituency for cleaning up the famously turgid waters of the canal, which is 1.8 miles long. 
Construction is to begin this year, said Ethan Geto, a spokesman for Lightstone.
The complex is to consist of two buildings of graduated heights, 12 stories in some spots along the canal, but shorter inland, toward the low-rise neighborhood of factories and row houses. Most of the apartments are to be rented at market prices, but 140, or 20 percent of them, are to be reserved throughout the buildings for people of modest incomes. A family of four with an income under $49,800, for example, would be eligible. 
The project is to include a 530-foot esplanade along the canal for public use; a provision of the latest plan for the project would increase the square footage of the walkway by almost 3,000 square feet.
Because Hurricane Sandy flooded the surrounding streets, the revised plans call for the lowest occupied floors to be raised two feet above the 100-year flood plain as defined in a recently updated map by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Mechanical and electrical systems are to be placed above that level as well.
The process was relatively painless for Lightstone because in 2009 a previous developer, Toll Brothers, won a zoning amendment permitting residential construction in a neighborhood zoned for manufacturing. The company had proposed some changes to those plans but abandoned them to avoid community objections and litigation.
In a statement, David Lichtenstein, chairman and chief executive of the Lightstone Group, said the new complex would "further enliven this vibrant neighborhood."
"We view this development as an enormous opportunity to transform a neglected waterfront resource into a lively component of a thriving residential community with an abundant cultural and recreational life."

        
Big Ticket | Sold for $14.25 Million, Luxury Combined
        
Big Ticket | A Marble Marvel For $9.46 Million
        
Big Ticket: Heat, Light and Height, Sold at $8.15 Million
        
Big Ticket | Spacious for Artwork, Sold for $21 Million
        
Kids Draw the News: Tiny Apartments, in 3-D

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%); FLOOD ZONES (69%); HURRICANE SANDY (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%); LITIGATION (50%) City Planning Commission; Gowanus Canal (Brooklyn, NY); Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Brooklyn; Housing & Economy

ORGANIZATION: City Planning Commission

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Gowanus Canal (Brooklyn, NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



619 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Where Home Is an Elusive Fantasy

BYLINE: DAVID GONZALEZ


HIGHLIGHT: Nadia Shira Cohen and Paulo Siqueira moved into a Florida motel to document the lives of families uprooted by poverty, illness and misfortune. 

 BODY:
A young man stands in a swimming pool, eyes covered, shoulders hunched, his head slightly bowed. A child bounces from bed to bed. A dainty green cupcake with confetti sprinkles occupies a place of honor on a paper plate.
These moments are captured in family pictures, much like those taken by countless families on summer road trips, the kind they would share with friends back home. But in this case, the children pictured have no home - they are living in limbo, reduced to scraping by week to week, or day to day, in a seedy motel in Orlando, Fla.
Nadia Shira Cohen and Paulo Siqueira - along with their infant son, Rafa - settled into the Remington Inn motel for several weeks last year to produce "Motel America," a multimedia project that tracked several families who ended up homeless after illness, unemployment, foreclosure and eviction. In a city where Disney's commercial fantasy attracts thousands of families each year, they are stuck with no idea of what the future holds. 
"Just knowing these people are miles away from living in this situation, you get this feeling of extremes," Mr. Siqueira said. "I didn't expect it to be so fragile. Some families we talked to, they were rear-ended by a bus and that's all it took. The supportive services come later. But there is nothing that prevents you from getting into that situation."
That idea that financial ruin could devastate a family so quickly was the driving force behind the project. Ms. Cohen said she had been reading Barbara Ehrenreich's "Nickel and Dimed" when she got the idea to pursue the project. The book, she said, recounted how people living on the edge stayed in motels - even though over time it would be more expensive - because they did not have enough savings to pay for an apartment's deposit, first and last months' rent.
Researching the topic, she and Mr. Siqueira zeroed in on central Florida. Less than a decade ago, people had flocked to the state, lured by jobs in a construction boom that was about to burst. On top of that, the state's overheated housing market went into decline with the mortgage crisis, overburdening already weak social service systems.
"What happened to all those people who came down for the construction boom?" Ms. Cohen said. "This is the hangover of that, when you have people left with nothing. Services were scarce before, and now they're completely overwhelmed with people who lost their homes."
They located families with the aid of Families in Transition, a nonprofit group that helps the homeless. They soon encountered families who had traveled a familiar path: losing a job, then a home, moving in with family or friends and ultimately ending up in a motel. If they were lucky, they might find a shelter in a few months.
Tyrone Washington and his family landed in the motel after the car he was driving was rear-ended by a school bus, shattering a brain shunt he had had since childhood. He lost his job of 10 years at a supermarket deli. His wife, who was pregnant, could not work.
"They slowly started sliding down," Ms. Cohen said. "While at the motel, they got a place together in a homeless shelter, which is rare. It's quite a stark change from the motel."
For Ginerva Cutcher's family, life at the motel was a respite from a grim routine. Unable to afford more than a day or two, they would camp out in the woods behind the motel. That is how they spent last Thanksgiving, eating sandwiches. Her 4-year-old son thought they were camping.
"She tried to keep that going," Ms. Cohen said. "It was a big thing for her. Her husband has a severe case of juvenile diabetes. Their car broke down and they couldn't get to work. Bus lines canceled night service at some stops and it got problematic. Her job was cleaning at night, and she couldn't get to work. She's been looking, but with two kids and her husband sick, she's just sliding."
Covering the story with their own child in tow helped Ms. Cohen and Mr. Siqueira gain trust among their subjects. It also unsettled them when they saw children not much older than their son having to live their early years in poverty.
Yet there were also moments of tenderness, even humor. Juan and Janet Cruz had to sell their wedding rings. But they exchanged new ones - Mickey Mouse rings. The pair had worked at Disney World, he in security and she as a janitor. Juan's diabetes led to surgery and disability. They now live in the motel with their two sons and a daughter.
"The kids seemed very involved in the situation and loving towards the family," Ms. Cohen said. "They were tight."
But they were old enough to know what they faced.
"These kids were forced to grow up pretty quickly, and they were pretty smart about the whole situation," Mr. Siqueira said. "Jake was in R.O.T.C. He thinks he wants to start a new life. He seemed to be pretty detached. Even though he is loving towards his family, his idea is to get out. He's 17. He has everything planned about what to do and where to go."
 A multimedia version "Motel America" appeared in USA Today in February.
 Follow @dgbxny and @nytimesphoto on Twitter. Lens is also on Facebook. 

        
Growing Up Lost in Appalachia
        
Odd Shadows in a Sunny Land
        
The Human Toll of Europe's Economic Statistics
        
Pictures of the Day: Florida and Elsewhere
        
Pictures of the Day: Florida and Elsewhere

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); EVICTION (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (67%); DISMISSALS (60%) American scenes; Barbara Ehrenreich; Disney World; Florida; Foreclosures; Motel America; Motels; Nadia Shira Cohen; Nickel and Dimed; Orlando; ParalleloZero; Paulo Siqueira; Poverty; Ehrenreich, Barbara; Families and Family Life; Hotels and Travel Lodgings; Unemployment; Showcase

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%)

PERSON: Ehrenreich, Barbara

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Florida

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2013



620 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 19, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: In Mayor's Race, Sources of Contributions Shift

BYLINE: FORD FESSENDEN


HIGHLIGHT: City Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn has raised the most money in the race for New York City mayor. But compared with 2001, the last time there was no incumbent running, contributions from wealthy Manhattan districts are way down. 

 BODY:
The Race for City Hall
More maps and detailed statistics on how much the candidates have raised and spent so far »
Change in contributions to mayoral candidates, 2001 vs. 2013 (through March 15, by ZIP code, adjusted for inflation) 
Staten
Island
Brooklyn
Queens
Manhattan
Bronx
Up
Key
Down
$500,000
250,000
100,000
Chelsea
Greenwich
Village
Riverdale
Kingsbridge
Yorkville
Murray Hill
Flushing
Chinatown 
 Christine C. Quinn, speaker of the City Council, has raised the most money among candidates in the race for New York City mayor. But compared with 2001, the last time there was no incumbent running, contributions from wealthy Manhattan districts are way down.
New campaign finance filings show contributors from the East Side of Manhattan appear to still be on the sidelines: less than $2 million has been raised in the area from Yorkville to Murray Hill, down from nearly $4 million in the same period of 2001. "There's no candidate that anyone feels strongly about," said Lisa Hernandez Gioia, a political consultant and fund-raiser.
Some of the shortfall has been made up with new money that has entered the race in Lower Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn. In Chelsea and Greenwich Village, contributions are higher than they were in 2001, and Ms. Quinn, who represents the area, is leading.
In gentrified Brooklyn, contributions have more than doubled, and Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, is outdoing Ms. Quinn. New money is also coming in from conservative areas in southern Brooklyn, again with Mr. de Blasio having an edge.
 John C. Liu, the city comptroller, has mined new sources of money in Chinatown and Flushing. "Asian voters are also Asian donors for Asian candidates," said Cynthia R. Darrison, a chief executive officer of Darrison Barrett & Associates, a political consulting firm. 
So far, no candidate is tapping Bronx sources the way Fernando Ferrer, the former borough president, did in his mayoral runs. In Riverdale and Kingsbridge, the four top candidates are splitting a sum smaller than what Mr. Ferrer raised in 2001.

        
Quinn Loses Popularity, but Retains Lead in Mayoral Race, Poll Finds
        
Mayor Says Some 2013 Candidates 'Just Sound Ridiculous'
        
Alighting on Staten Island, Democratic Mayoral Hopefuls Make Their Appeals
        
Democratic Candidates Criticize Disciplining of City's Students
        
For Quinn, Weiner Is the Possible Candidate Who Must Not Be Named

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAYORS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); EXECUTIVES (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Campaign Finance; de Blasio, Bill; Elections, Mayors; Lhota, Joseph J; Liu, John C; Quinn, Christine C; NYC 2013

COMPANY: BARRETT & ASSOCIATES (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: de Blasio, Bill; Lhota, Joseph J; Liu, John C; Quinn, Christine C

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2013



621 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Using 'Sponsored Content' To Keep Viewers Watching

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TELEVISION networks and channels are becoming increasingly involved in the creation of commercials that appear during their shows, hoping to counter the growing penchant among viewers for zapping or zipping through conventional commercials.
The reason behind those efforts to keep consumers interested in ads rather than avoiding them is economic. In the coming ''upfront'' negotiations, marketers will be asked by the networks and channels to buy commercial time -- and, in all likelihood, pay more for it. But marketers may be reluctant to do so if viewers do not make time to watch commercials.
The new buzz phrase on Madison Avenue for the creation of sponsored content is content marketing, although it is also being called content advertising and native advertising. More familiar terms for the trend include branded content, branded entertainment and advertorials. 
Among the purveyors of programming that are most active in developing commercials for marketers is Scripps Networks Interactive, the parent of cable channels that include DIY, Food Network, HGTV and Travel Channel.
As the company starts a series of 2013-14 upfront presentations, in markets like Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles and New York, a primary selling point of its executives is to create commercials that are styled like program content -- some even featuring the hosts of shows who appear on the channels.
''Each spring, we have lots and lots of account-specific meetings with agency folks, and sometimes the client is in the room,'' said Jonathan LaConti, vice president for ad sales at the New York office of Scripps Networks Interactive. ''We create solutions to meet their needs.''
In making a commercial composed of sponsored content, ''we want to be really careful,'' Mr. LaConti said, that it ''looks really natural'' rather than like a sales spiel. And if a host of a Scripps Networks Interactive show is involved, the sponsor ought to be ''closely aligned with his brand,'' he added, to prevent perceptions of selling out.
As a result, the production of such spots can be ''terribly complicated,'' said John Dailey, senior vice president of Eastern region ad sales for the home category at the New York office of Scripps Networks Interactive.
And ''a lot of nail biting'' can occur, he added, describing ''a day in November when, if we did not get a signed talent agreement'' for a host who was to appear in a commercial, ''we would not have been able to get it on the air in time for the date we'd identified.''
But the additional work is worth it to marketers, Mr. Dailey said he believed, because they ''feel that cuts through the clutter,'' particularly when ''consumers can access the content across a number of touch points,'' meaning online as well as on television.
And the additional work is worth it to Scripps Networks Interactive, which during the upfront market before the 2012-13 season, booked consolidated ad sales of more than $1 billion, said Jon Steinlauf, executive vice president for ad sales and marketing at the New York office, the first time that milestone was reached.
Some deals the company makes to produce customized commercials for marketers are valued at more than $10 million apiece. They include an elaborate agreement with the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company in which the MEC media agency, part of the GroupM unit of WPP, was ''a terrific collaborator,'' Mr. Dailey said.
That deal involves, in addition to commercials on four cable channels that are to begin this week, online ads and advertorials in two magazines, Food Network Magazine and HGTV Magazine, published by a unit of the Hearst Corporation in a joint venture with Scripps Networks Interactive.
''The zapping is getting easier and easier,'' said Jim Lyski, chief marketing officer at Scotts Miracle-Gro in Marysville, Ohio. ''For our brands to thrive in the new media world, we have to put a lot of effort into content creation and content curation.''
''When we do, the ads are remembered and break through and are considered highly relevant,'' he added, because consumers ''are almost volunteering to watch'' the customized commercials, which they perceive as ''in the context of what they're already watching; it flows naturally.''
Another marketer that has teamed with Scripps Networks Interactive for a significant content-creation agreement is the Land Rover brand sold by the Jaguar Land Rover North America unit of Tata Motors, working with two WPP agencies, Y&R and Mindshare.
The deal includes customized commercials for television and the Web, under the rubric ''Travel Channel's Road to the Unexpected,'' featuring a Travel Channel host, Don Wildman, driving Land Rovers in Bolivia, Britain, Jamaica and Quebec, and accompanying teasers -- yes, commercials for commercials -- to promote the spots.
''When you co-create with Travel Channel, they bring the perspective of their consumers to the project and help us begin a dialogue with them,'' said Danielle Koffer, managing director for client leadership at Mindshare in New York,
''This is the fruits of our labors from last year's upfront,'' she added. ''We'll be looking to do more in this year's upfront.''
Kim McCullough, brand vice president at Land Rover in Mahwah, N.J., said, ''We're looking for extended partnerships that can provide content throughout the year, not only on TV but also online, and gives us content for social media.''
For instance, Mr. Wildman, on his Twitter feed last week, told his followers, ''In my next life I'm coming back as a Range Rover.'' The comment was subsequently reposted by Land Rover from its Twitter feed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Don Wildman, a host of programs on the Travel Channel, appears in ads made by the network for Land Rover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPONSORSHIP (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (79%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BRANDING (74%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: SCRIPPS NETWORKS INTERACTIVE INC (83%); HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (56%)

TICKER: SNI (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



622 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Deal in Albany To Extend Tax On Big Earners

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Congress dodged the so-called fiscal cliff in part by raising taxes on high incomes. California voters addressed their state's school budget troubles with a surcharge on big incomes. And now Albany has decided to raise revenue with a high income tax rate for people with seven-figure incomes.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and legislative leaders are finalizing a surprise deal to extend a high-tax bracket for the state's top incomes. The bracket, first approved by lawmakers in late 2011 as a temporary response to disappointing revenues, does not expire until the end of 2014. But that year is an election year, and by deciding to renew the bracket now, Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers can avoid debating high tax rates while running for re-election.
Mr. Cuomo, who in 2011 described a new high tax bracket as a ''short-term solution'' to help the state weather a financial emergency, did not mention his desire to extend the new tax bracket when he publicly announced his budget proposal in January, or in the weeks since as he and his cabinet members have crisscrossed the state, promoting his spending plan to residents. 
The Legislature has not held any hearings or debate about the tax proposal, and Mr. Cuomo's office has declined to provide details while it is being negotiated. The State Democratic Party has even broadcast television advertisements praising the lack of any tax increases in the spending plan that Mr. Cuomo proposed.
But the emerging deal follows similar actions in Washington and in other states to improve shaky balance sheets by generating more revenue from those with top incomes. In its deal to resolve the so-called fiscal cliff, Congress agreed in January to raise taxes on individuals with incomes higher than $400,000 and couples with more than $450,000. And in November, at the urging of Gov. Jerry Brown, California voters approved a temporary income tax surcharge on the state's highest incomes.
While some states are moving in the opposite direction -- seeking to eliminate income taxes in an effort to spur growth -- others like New York are embracing the idea of generating more revenue from those who make the most. Maryland raised income taxes on high incomes last year, and Minnesota is considering an increase this year.
''I think partly there's some recognition that the level of income inequality has grown, and the level of income inequality has especially grown in places like California and New York,'' said Kim Rueben, a senior fellow at the Tax Policy Center.
In New York, the high-tax bracket, with a marginal rate of 8.82 percent, applies to individuals who make more than $1 million and married couples who make more than $2 million, about 32,000 filers. The negotiators have not finalized the new expiration date of the high bracket. Discussions have included extending it through 2017.
The emerging tax deal is already drawing consternation from fiscal conservatives and business groups. The Partnership for New York City, a leading business group that has supported Mr. Cuomo's agenda, warned that the renewal of the top tax bracket could drive the wealthy to leave the state -- an assertion that is disputed by some. The business group said that the deal to increase federal taxes brought the combined marginal effective tax rate for New York City's highest incomes to 54 percent, and that the extension in Albany would only further the state's reputation for high taxes.
''These are highly mobile people that have options and are being solicited daily by governors of Florida, Texas, Puerto Rico, Utah -- lower-tax states -- and it feels like Albany was not considering the implications of the combined tax burden,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of the Partnership for New York City.
She added, ''The reaction I've gotten from people who pay the tax is that clearly this is a message that suggests the state does not really value this very important group of job creators and taxpayers.''
Kevin S. Law, the president of the Long Island Association, also a business group, said the tax bracket extension ''caught us off guard, because we weren't expecting to deal with it until next year.''
''At this point in time, we believe it sends the wrong message, as we're going through this slow and bumpy recovery, to be increasing taxes for anybody,'' Mr. Law said.
But Ron Deutsch, the executive director of New Yorkers for Fiscal Fairness, a liberal advocacy group, said the state needed the extra revenue from high incomes, especially with the tight budgets that are afflicting many school districts and local governments.
''The reality is we have record hunger, record homelessness and child poverty rates at 50 percent or higher in many of our cities -- those are things that need to be addressed for a healthy economy,'' Mr. Deutsch said. ''I think there are a lot of wealthy New Yorkers who realize they love this state, they want to be part of the solution, and they are happy to pay a little bit higher income-tax rate.''
The timing of Mr. Cuomo's move was unexpected because the governor had promised to seek a long-term overhaul of the state's tax code -- not another short-term extension -- when he negotiated the tax rate changes in 2011.
Mr. Cuomo did not appoint a promised tax commission until December; his office said it had given no timetable to the commission, but a person familiar with the commission's work said it did not plan to report back to the governor until late this year.
The legislative leaders also plan to renew more modest tax cuts for middle-class incomes that had been approved along with the high-tax bracket for top incomes. Mr. Cuomo's budget office had projected that the tax code changes enacted in 2011 would generate roughly $2 billion a year in extra revenue.
''It's a very good idea,'' the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat, said Tuesday when asked about the idea of extending the temporary tax brackets. ''It has made our tax code more progressive, and I think that's a good thing to do.''
And the Senate Republican leader, Dean G. Skelos of Long Island, said, ''That's still on the table, but there's a good possibility that's going to happen.''
Asked if he favored extending the high-tax bracket, Mr. Cuomo responded by saying, ''I am in favor of tax cuts if we can find a way to pay for them, and that's what the discussion is.''
''I believe in cutting taxes for the middle class, for small businesses -- stimulating the economy,'' Mr. Cuomo added. ''Can you afford them? Where does the money come from? And that's one of the areas we're discussing.''
An administration official said the revenue generated by extending the top tax bracket would go toward unspecified tax cuts for middle-class families and small business. Among the tax cuts that Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers have agreed to are a $350 tax-relief check for families with at least one child, and a refundable credit for employers with workers under the age of 20 to offset an increase in the minimum wage.
The extension of the tax bracket was the most surprising change to come out of this year's budget negotiations, which Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders were close to wrapping up on Tuesday. The budget is supposed to be adopted by April 1. The leaders have sped up negotiations this year in an effort to allow lawmakers to get home for Passover and Easter.
The budget agreement will also include a gradual increase of the minimum wage over the next three years, and Mr. Cuomo and lawmakers were discussing whether to include language intended to reduce the number of low-level marijuana arrests that result from police stops in New York City. They are also negotiating changes to the gun laws that were enacted in January.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); APPROVALS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); MARRIAGE (62%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); JERRY BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



623 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Iraq War's 10th Anniversary Is Barely Noted in Washington

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A decade after the night that American bombs first rained down on Baghdad, the president joked about wearing a green tie for a belated St. Patrick's Day celebration. Congress noisily focused on whether spending cuts would force the cancellation of the White House Easter egg roll. Cable news debated whether a show about young women has too much sex in it.
But on one topic, there was a conspiracy of silence: Republicans and Democrats agreed that they did not really want to talk about the Iraq war. 
The 10-year anniversary of the American invasion came and went on Tuesday with barely passing notice in a town once consumed by it. Neither party had much interest in revisiting what succeeded and what failed, who was right and who was wrong. The bipartisan consensus underscored the broader national mood: after 10 years, America seems happy to wash its hands of Iraq.
Never mind that Iraq remains in perilous shape, free of Saddam Hussein and growing economically, but still afflicted by spasms of violence and struggling to move beyond autocratic government. With American troops now gone, the war has receded from the capital conversation and the national consciousness, replaced by worries about spending, taxes, debt and jobs. Whether the United States won or lost, or achieved something messy in between, seems at this point a stale debate.
President Obama, who rose to political heights on the strength of his opposition to the war, made no mention of it in appearances on Tuesday. Instead, he issued a written statement saluting ''the courage and resolve'' of the 1.5 million Americans who served during eight years in Iraq and honoring the memory of the nearly 4,500 Americans ''who made the ultimate sacrifice.''
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, who as a Republican senator broke with his party over the war, a move that complicated his recent confirmation hearings, likewise stuck to a written statement praising the troops and urging Americans to ''remember these quiet heroes this week.''
Those on the other side of the debates likewise paid little notice. Former President George W. Bush, former Vice President Dick Cheney and many other authors of the war made no public comments. Former Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld sent a message via Twitter: ''10 yrs ago began the long, difficult work of liberating 25 mil Iraqis. All who played a role in history deserve our respect & appreciation.''
Although some foreign policy and news organizations held forums or produced retrospectives in recent days, the floors of Congress did not ring out with speeches expounding on the lessons of Iraq.
''This is a little like the crazy uncle in the attic that nobody wants to talk about,'' said John Nagl, a retired Army lieutenant colonel who served in Iraq and is now a fellow at the Center for a New American Security in Washington. ''But we need to because we put him there.''
Critics like Mr. Nagl argue that the anniversary should serve as a reminder about what he sees as the mistake of starting the war. ''It would be a shame if we did not pause and think hard about this as a nation,'' he said. ''We paid an enormous price as a nation. The Iraqis have paid a huge price. The region is destabilized.''
Some war supporters disagreed. ''President Bush made the right decision on removing the Iraqi regime from power,'' said Douglas J. Feith, a former under secretary of defense. Where America went wrong, he said, was ''when we transformed ourselves from liberators to occupiers.''
Meghan O'Sullivan, a former deputy national security adviser to Mr. Bush, said that some lessons could be drawn, but that it was too soon for final judgments. ''Many issues that will be key to answering the question of was it worth it still hang in the balance,'' she said.
Public attitudes toward the war have hardened 10 years later. Fifty-four percent of Americans interviewed by CBS News in a poll released Tuesday said the United States should have stayed out of Iraq, while 38 percent said it did the right thing. Fifty percent said the United States did not succeed in achieving its objectives, while 41 percent said it did.
The White House found itself in the awkward position of standing by Mr. Obama's opposition to the war but offering an optimistic prognosis for Iraq -- and even giving a grudging nod to Mr. Bush for removing a dictator from power.
''Ridding the world of Saddam Hussein was a welcome development for the world and for Iraq,'' Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said at his daily briefing. ''The president believes that Iraq has the potential for a better future today because of the remarkable sacrifice and service of American men and women in uniform as well as civilian American men and women who served in Iraq.''
Asked if that better future owed in part to the decision to invade, Mr. Carney said Mr. Hussein was removed by the military sent by Mr. Bush.
''And to the extent that credit is due, credit is due to him for that,'' Mr. Carney said. ''That does not change, I think, assessments made by this president as a candidate or by many others on this day, 10 years after, about the judgments made to go to war in Iraq.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (76%); EASTER SEASON (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (67%); WRITERS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



624 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Treasury Secretary and China's President Meet

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Jacob J. Lew, the American Treasury secretary, met with President Xi Jinping of China on Tuesday in the first high-level encounter between American and Chinese officials since Mr. Xi assumed the presidency, and one that recognized sticking points in a relationship that has drifted in the last few months.
Mr. Lew, 57, a master of the intricacies of the United States budget who has less foreign experience than his predecessors, raised the topic of cybersecurity, a significant issue in the relationship between Washington and Beijing, American officials said. He also talked about North Korea's nuclear program, a topic not normally on a Treasury secretary's agenda, they said. 
Mr. Xi noted that while the United States and China had ''enormous shared interests, of course, unavoidably we have some differences.''
It has been unusual for Chinese leaders to draw attention to stark divisions with the United States. Mr. Xi's choice of words showed confidence that he could manage the problems, and hinted at a lowering of expectations about developing a strategic relationship with the United States, an idea that had been proffered in the past, diplomats here said.
Contacts between Washington and Beijing have been sparse during China's political transition. It began in November when Mr. Xi took over as head of the Communist Party, and ended last week with his ascension to the presidency at the annual session of the National People's Congress.
For reasons of protocol, President Obama did not speak with Mr. Xi until last week, when he called the new Chinese president to congratulate him and to outline the issues at hand, including North Korea and cybersecurity.
The White House has directly accused China of widespread theft of data from American computer networks, including those of American businesses involved in the Chinese market. China's cyberespionage against American commercial interests has attracted attention in Congress that could have negative consequences for China, analysts said.
''If we don't see progress, that could increase the prospects for a political backlash that would lead to greater scrutiny of Chinese investment in the United States,'' said Myron A. Brilliant, executive vice president and head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in Washington.
On North Korea, the Obama administration wants to know whether Beijing will enforce the new sanctions that the United Nations Security Council imposed on the North, with China voting in favor. The administration has also announced an expansion of missile defense capabilities in an effort to deter North Korea, a message that implied that China should restrain its nuclear-armed ally.
Mr. Xi appeared to have gone out of his way to meet Mr. Lew before leaving Friday for his first foreign trip as president, which is to include two days in Moscow, followed by a three-nation tour of Africa. Mr. Lew is the first foreign official Mr. Xi has met as president, and Mr. Xi endowed some meaning to his phrase to Mr. Lew that he attached ''great importance'' to the relationship between China and the United States.
At the same time, however, Chinese commentators have noted that Secretary of State John Kerry chose to make his first trip abroad an extended journey to Europe and the Middle East, unlike his predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton, who visited Asian nations first, including China. Mr. Kerry is expected to be in China next month as part of an Asian tour, administration officials said.
This trip is Mr. Lew's first to China, according to administration officials. The previous two Treasury secretaries, Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Timothy F. Geithner, were experts on China, and for the past seven years they played dominant roles in the relationship between the countries.
Mr. Lew arrived in Beijing on Tuesday morning and went almost immediately to the Great Hall of the People. He was accompanied by Lael Brainard, under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, and Evan Medeiros, a senior official of the National Security Council who specializes in China.
As Mr. Lew and Mr. Xi sat side by side in large, white-upholstered armchairs, Mr. Lew stressed in brief comments overheard by reporters that the United States had seen 14 quarters of economic growth, that the housing market was ''coming back,'' and that a ''revolution'' was under way in the energy sector, a reference to shale gas production. After that, reporters were ushered out.
The meeting lasted about 45 minutes, according to Mr. Lew's aides. The secretary stressed the need for a relationship marked by ''healthy competition rather than strategic rivalry,'' a United States official said.
Later, Mr. Lew met with Xu Shaoshi, the new chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission, the powerful agency that manages the domestic economy. He had dinner with the new finance minister, Lou Jiwei, and Wednesday he is to meet with China's new prime minister, Li Keqiang.
Mr. Lew had his first lunch in China at the Bao Yuan Dumpling House, an informal restaurant close to the United States Embassy. There, with two staff members, he ate a variety of house specialties, using chopsticks. The bill: roughly $6 a person.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Security officials asked journalists to leave a room at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Tuesday where Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew, center, was meeting with President Xi Jinping. (POOL PHOTO BY ANDY WONG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); CYBERCRIME (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



625 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Finance Bill, Nearing Senate Passage, Would Protect Some Favored Programs

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The worst of the federal cuts to a major infant nutrition program would be reversed. Embassy security and construction could be spared in the wake of the consulate attack in Benghazi, Libya. And child care subsidies, once seen as critical to the success of welfare reform, would take a haircut, not the hammer blow that President Obama once loudly warned was coming.
With the expected Senate passage this week of broad legislation to finance the federal government through Sept. 30, a lucky few programs will be spared the brunt of the automatic spending cuts now coursing through the federal government. Also, managers in some departments, especially the Defense Department, will gain more flexibility to carry out cuts. 
The overall size of the cuts will remain the same, as will the short-term impact on the economy, because total spending outside of entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security must remain beneath a hard cap of $984 billion. One program's gain in the spending bill will mean another's loss, caution the Democratic and Republican authors of the bill, which the House seems poised to pass as well.
The bill is a mixed blessing for President Obama and others, especially Democrats, who hope Congress will eventually reverse the recent cuts. The changes make the cuts less arbitrary and damaging in the eyes of many independent experts. They reduce the effect on programs that touch national security, child health and welfare, but they inhibit long-term economic growth, through science funding and other areas.
But the new continuing resolution might have a political impact beyond the numbers: It could reduce some of the most obvious disruptions in federal services, potentially easing the pressure that Mr. Obama had hoped would soften Republican opposition to a replacement that combined spending cuts with tax increases.
''The combination of the various appropriations bills, funding transfers and reprogramming authority takes the doom and gloom out of sequestration,'' said Chris Krueger, a senior policy analyst at Guggenheim Securities' Washington Research Group. ''You've still got $85 billion coming out. You're still going to get the hit to the economy.''
That means lower employment levels and slower growth this year, public and private forecasters have said. Rather than rearranging the cuts across the budget, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, has recommended holding them back until the still-sluggish recovery takes stronger hold. ''Besides having adverse effects on jobs and incomes, a slower recovery would lead to less actual deficit reduction in the short run,'' Mr. Bernanke said last month.
Republican senators, some of whom have cheered on the ''sequestration'' cuts, spent Tuesday jostling for last-minute votes on their priorities. The new package of cuts cleared its biggest procedural hurdle Monday night, with a 63-to-35 vote to end debate, but failed to win approval Tuesday.
It still appears likely to pass the Senate this week, given Monday's vote, and to clear the House shortly after its final Senate vote. The legislation would replace the current stopgap spending law with a more detailed plan.
On Tuesday, Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, shut down repeated efforts to get a final vote because he wanted the Federal Aviation Administration to protect control towers at rural airports. Senators Mark Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, and Roy Blunt, Republican of Missouri, pressed for a vote to ensure meat inspectors would not be furloughed.
Senator Kelly Ayotte, Republican of New Hampshire, pleaded to kill what she called a missile to nowhere -- a European-based missile defense system that both the Senate and House armed services committees have repeatedly tried to zero out -- and to shift the money to military operations and maintenance.
''There's not going to be another funding bill for the government until the end of this federal fiscal year,'' she said. ''This is our only opportunity.''
The primary goal of the bill is to allow lawmakers to make distinctions among programs.
The bill ''includes some very limited changes to fix pressing problems,'' said Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland, chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. But, she said, there was only so much she and her Republican counterpart, Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, could do under the constraints of assembling a measure that could pass the House.
If, for instance, Congress maintained current levels of spending through September, $500 million would have gone to a space shuttle program that no longer exists, Ms. Mikulski said. The Pentagon would get too much money for wars winding down and not enough for retraining and rebuilding a force depleted by more than a decade of fighting.
With the changes, the Agriculture Department's nutrition program for woman, infants and children would receive an additional $250 million under the Senate bill, enough to serve 300,000 more people. That sum would help offset a $333 million sequester cut that the program must absorb over the next six months.
The remaining cuts could still hurt, but officials involved in the program are holding off final decisions until Congress acts.
Under sequestration, programs would first try to reduce the cost of the basket of goods provided to participants, by finding lower prices on goods like baby food and peanut butter, said Douglas A. Greenaway, the president of the National WIC Association -- an umbrella group for state programs.
But he added that the program was already lean and would most likely have to make more significant cuts, too. Pregnant women and newborns would be the first priority; postpartum women and 3- and 4-year-olds would be the lowest priority, he said.
The State Department's embassy security, construction and maintenance account had been girding for a $79 million hit. Instead, an additional $90 million for the rest of 2013 will leave the account slightly ahead of where it was last year.
The federal child care and development block grant, slated for a $115 million cut, would lose $65 million instead. The Energy Department's nuclear weapons programs, promised large budget increases to win Republican votes for a 2010 nuclear arms accord, will still take a hit under sequestration. But the cut would be $237 million instead of $600 million.
In exchange, other programs would experience larger cuts. Military construction for barracks, schools and hospitals worldwide would lose billions of dollars. Energy research, already taking a 5 percent cut under the sequester, or more than $150 million, would absorb another $44 million loss.
Other programs like Head Start, for early education, would have roughly the same cut as previously planned. The program is expected to lose about 70,000 slots for children out of one million over all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Patty Murray, center, and Harry Reid, the majority leader, spoke on the budget in Washington on Tuesday, when some senators jostled to gain last-minute votes on their priorities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); MEDICARE (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CHILD CARE (73%); NUTRITION (73%); SCIENCE FUNDING (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); TAX LAW (66%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); HARRY REID (56%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



626 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: In Shift, Lobbyists Look for Bipartisan Support to Repeal a Tax

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When executives from Cook Medical gathered last month to offer Representative Cheri Bustos a tour of their central Illinois medical equipment plant, they had good reason to expect a frosty reception from Ms. Bustos, a new Democratic congresswoman.
Cook executives had backed Representative Bobby Schilling, her Republican opponent in last year's election for Illinois's 17th District seat, after he had joined with other House Republicans to push for the repeal of a new medical device tax imposed to pay for President Obama's health care law. The company said the tax would cut its profits this year by an estimated $15 million, perhaps limiting future expansions. But in a hint of a shift in corporate lobbying strategy now under way in Washington, the industry pitch is now focused on Democrats like Ms. Bustos.
''Republican or Democrat, we need them to understand who we are and what we do,'' said Steve Ferguson, the chairman of Cook's parent company, who was there alongside Ms. Bustos as she toured his company plant. The visit ended with Ms. Bustos telling local reporters she would consider joining the effort to repeal the tax, which is expected to raise $29 billion over 10 years. 
''If current laws are holding businesses back from hiring locally, I'm open to looking into ways to improve and fix them,'' Ms. Bustos said in a statement.
Just last year, with Republicans still within reach of taking over the Senate and White House, many companies were willing to burn a chunk of their corporate lobbying budget to push House Republicans to pass bills that everyone on Capitol Hill knew had no chance of ever becoming law. The muscle flexing at least made a political point -- and potentially set up special-interest groups, like the medical device industry, for a successful push this year, assuming their hoped-for Republican victories had been scored.
But then the 2012 election took place. Candidates like Mr. Schilling were defeated, even though Cook executives had contributed generously to his re-election effort, to try to keep Ms. Bustos, a strong advocate of the Obama health care plan, out of office.
Now, lobbyists across the city are redoubling their efforts to build bipartisan coalitions -- not just on the 2.3 percent medical device excise tax, but other hot topics, like the possible rewriting of corporate tax laws and revisions to the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that revamped the way financial corporations are regulated.
Republicans still get the bulk of the money that the medical device industry contributes. But there are some key Democrats who are pulling in large amounts of industry financial support, like Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Bob Casey of Pennsylvania, who have been outspoken in their opposition to the medical device tax.
Bipartisanship, of course, is not unheard of in Washington, and the lobbyists and corporate players who have intensified their bipartisan push this year credit their dedication to good governance. But much of this is about figuring out a way to get the legislative train running again -- so they can deliver some rewards to their clients.
''Lobbing grenades back and forth -- that is not good enough,'' said Don Nickles, a former Republican senator from Oklahoma, who runs a lobbying firm whose client roster includes Medtronic, one of the nation's top medical device companies.
It remains unclear whether the strategy will work. The animosity between Republicans and Democrats on Capitol Hill -- and between the White House and Republican leaders -- might be so intense that even this lobbying push will fail.
But this is the moment to try, lobbyists in Washington are telling their clients. The first two years of any presidential term are when Congress, at least by historical precedent, is typically more productive -- before the political posturing for the next election takes over.
''It is no longer just about sending signals or messages,'' said L. F. Payne Jr., a former House Democrat whose lobbying firm was hired by Cook Medical's parent company last year to help its push to appeal to Democrats. ''But it is time to actually pass some laws.''
The bid to repeal the medical device tax is a prime example of this shift in lobbying tactics. Last year in the Senate, the industry effort was led by Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, who secured the support of 33 other senators, all of them of his party. A House version pushing the tax repeal passed in June largely with Republican support. But the measure died, after it failed to come to a vote in the Senate.
This year, Mr. Hatch is again sponsoring a repeal bill, but he has four Democrats as co-sponsors, including liberals like Senator Al Franken of Minnesota.
Perhaps even more important, industry lobbyists helped circulate a letter among Senate Democrats in December, after the election, criticizing the tax and urging a delay in its Jan. 1 establishment. Sixteen sitting Democratic senators and two who had just been elected ultimately signed on. It was a real coup for the industry, as the letter included top Senate Democrats like Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Charles E. Schumer of New York.
The behind-the-scenes story of how those signatures were secured offers a window into the changing lobbying tactics. Companies like Cook Medical have seen their lobbying budgets soar, as they have beefed up their representation by lobbying firms with Democratic credentials, like the firm where Mr. Payne works, McGuire Woods, which also has former Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, as a lawyer on its team.
The appeal has included dozens of telephone calls from executives at medical device companies to the Senate Democrats or their staff, as well as many meetings in person on Capitol Hill.
Trade associations like the Advanced Medical Technology Association, have organized rallylike events in different states, and ''fly-ins'' to Washington, in which employees of medical equipment firms make it clear that they expect the help of their local members of Congress.
Donations from industry executives to certain important Democratic allies, like Ms. Klobuchar of Minnesota and Mr. Casey of Pennsylvania, surged in the last election cycle as the industry played a significant role in their re-election efforts.
Ms. Klobuchar, whose state has an estimated 400 medical device companies employing about 35,000 people, has emerged as one of the industry's most important allies -- cornering other Democrats on the Senate floor to press them to join the push, industry lobbyists said. The first real test will come this week. Senate backers of the device tax repeal, like Mr. Hatch and Ms. Klobuchar, plan to propose a nonbinding amendment to a federal budget bill to make their bipartisan opposition to the tax clear.
The industry executives and the lawmakers involved have at least so far avoided identifying how they would pay for the repeal of the device tax. They realize that they would only draw opposition from lobbyists representing whatever industry it is that would be targeted to make up the money. The biggest obstacle remains the White House, which last year threatened to veto the House medical tax repeal bill. The White House argues that demand for new devices will offset the economic impact of the tax.
But the industry, which sells devices ranging from wooden tongue depressors to pacemakers, has important Democratic allies now trying to squeeze the White House as well. Ms. Klobuchar and Mr. Franken brought up the topic last month with Mr. Obama during a ride they took with him on Air Force One.
''I think that there has been some renewed understanding on the president's part,'' Mr. Franken told the editorial board of a Minnesota newspaper last month -- which then repeated his call for the repeal of the tax, under a headline, ''If a tax has bipartisan opposition, Obama should listen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, a newly elected Democrat, said she would consider joining a tax-repeal effort. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (75%); TAX LAW (75%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); EXCISE TAX (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); CORPORATE TAX (50%)

COMPANY: COOK GROUP INC (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (94%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (94%)

PERSON: CHERI BUSTOS (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BOBBY SCHILLING (58%); BOB CASEY (57%); AMY KLOBUCHAR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



627 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Developers Are Making Bets on a Rising East Harlem

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
Sharon Kahen and his partner Haim Levi are making a multimillion-dollar bet on East Harlem. The developers recently closed on a vacant parcel at 119th Street and Third Avenue where they plan to build a 60-unit market-rate rental building.
''In the next five years, we will invest $75 million to connect East Harlem to the Upper East Side,'' said Mr. Kahen, who, along with Mr. Levi, built the CL Tower at 203 East 121st Street in 2011. ''We started at 121st Street; now we are doing a project at 119th Street, and we plan to continue moving south.''
Demand from students who attend Hunter College's newly opened Silberman School of Social Work at 119th Street, along with residents displaced by increasing rents on the Upper East Side, are driving developers to build more housing in East Harlem.
In the neighborhood, which runs from 96th to 142nd Streets, east of Fifth Avenue, 15 development sites traded hands in 2012, compared with just six in 2011, according to Eastern Consolidated, a commercial brokerage company. And while the number of multifamily properties that sold last year was 43, the same as in 2011, the dollar volume on the transactions increased nearly 140 percent to $287.6 million, from a little over $120 million, the company found. 
''The neighborhood is really starting to gentrify and attract for-profit developers -- 96th Street is no longer the hard line dividing the Upper East Side and Harlem,'' said Christopher Cirillo, the executive director of Lott Community Development Corporation, which builds affordable housing. With so much competition from market-rate builders, ''there isn't a lot of property available for us to rehab or do new development, so that is really our challenge,'' he said.
Mr. Kahen and Mr. Levi bought their parcel on 119th Street in January. They paid about $3.8 million for the 75-foot lot, at 2183-89 Third Avenue, which also included air rights from an adjacent building. The developers plan to break ground in June and will spend $16 million to build a 12-story building of studios, one-bedrooms and two-bedrooms, as well as 5,000 square feet of commercial space.
The building, with a gym, a doorman and a roof deck, will have one-bedrooms starting at $2,500 a month and two-bedrooms at $2,900. In comparison, the average prices on the Upper East Side for one-bedrooms and two-bedrooms are roughly $2,400 and $3,350, according to Citi Habitats, a residential brokerage firm.
Land prices in East Harlem, as in all of Manhattan, have also been trending upward. The price to acquire the land for the rental building that Mr. Kahen and Mr. Levi are planning, for example, ''was about $80 a buildable square foot, and it would have been closer to $55 a foot if we had sold it back in 2011,'' said Michael A. Tortorici, a vice president for Ariel Property Advisors, the commercial brokerage firm that handled the sale.
Mr. Tortorici is marketing another development site in the neighborhood, at 336 East 112th Street, for $2.2 million. The same size lot just a few doors down, at 318 East 112th Street, sold for only $1.5 million in 2011, he said.
In addition to residential development, there is some commercial office construction under way in East Harlem. Artimus, a developer, is undertaking a $16 million renovation of the landmark Corn Exchange Building, on 125th Street and Park Avenue. The project, which is awaiting final approvals from the Landmarks Preservation Commission, will be one of the first new office buildings in the neighborhood in many years, said Eric S. Yarbro, a senior vice president for CBRE, a commercial brokerage firm. ''We have a $3 billion nonprofit who wants to move their offices to East Harlem, but we haven't been able to find them anything that was built after 2000,'' he said.
There may also be some momentum on the 1.7 million square foot East Harlem Media, Art and Cultural Center, which is on Third Avenue from 125th to 127th Street. The project, headed by the city's Economic Development Corporation, broke ground in 2010 and was supposed to include some 385,000 square feet of retail space, 250,000 square feet of office, 840,000 square feet of residential, a hotel and a cultural center.
So far, only 49 units of affordable housing and 6,000 square feet of retailing have been built, but developers hope to complete plans this year for the second phase, which will include residential, commercial and institutional space.
''This project, along with other recent investments that have been made along the 125th Street corridor, will help cement the area's place as an important cultural and retail hub for Upper Manhattan,'' said Patrick Muncie, a spokesman for the Economic Development Corporation.
But while East Harlem is seeing development, some hurdles remain. Vornado Realty Trust owns a large site at 1800 Park Avenue, at 124th Street, where it had planned to develop a mixed-use project before the recession. That project never materialized, and Vornado, which declined to comment, had not indicated whether it would develop the site soon. And while it seems that some progress is being made on the East Harlem Media, Entertainment and Cultural Center, the city still has not acquired all of the private parcels needed to complete the project.
Retailing in the neighborhood is also lagging. The East River Plaza shopping center at 116th and Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive has Target and Costco among its tenants, ''but it hasn't transformed the neighborhood as quickly as some of us expected,'' said Lon Rubackin, a senior vice president for CBRE's retail services group. ''There are still very few national retailers in the area,'' except for fast-food tenants like Dunkin' Donuts and Subway. One reason for East Harlem's lack of national companies like the Gap or American Eagle Outfitters is a dearth of retail spaces large enough to accommodate them, he said.
Still, retail rents have risen since the recession, Mr. Rubackin said. He is marketing a 2,700-square-foot retail store at 116th Street and Pleasant Avenue. While the space is not large enough to attract the larger apparel companies, the asking rent of $100 a square foot is higher than a few years ago. ''After the recession, Harlem and the surrounding neighborhoods were some of the hardest hit, and rents back in 2009 or 2010 were as low as $50 a foot,'' he said.
As more developers take an interest in the neighborhood, the community is doing its best to control the changes. In January, Manhattan Community Board 11 approved a proposal it developed in conjunction with the nonprofit organization Civitas to rezone 60 blocks. The plan, which has not been approved by the New York City Department of City Planning, calls for several zoning changes, including greater commercial development along Park Avenue and the creation of more affordable housing.
''We felt the need to be extremely proactive in how our community is planned and to support growth from within,'' said Matthew S. Washington, the chairman of Community Board 11. While the rezoning cannot be done without city approvals, ''this is a way to have our voice heard and start the conversation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The developer Sharon Kahen at the CL Tower on East 121st Street in Harlem. He and his partner just bought another Harlem parcel, on 119th Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); TRENDS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



628 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Home Building Rose At Vigorous Clip in February

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Builders began construction on more homes in February, and permits for future construction rose at their fastest pace since 2008. The increases point to a housing recovery that is gaining strength. 
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday that builders broke ground on houses and apartments last month at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 917,000. That rate was 910,000 in January. February's pace was the second-fastest since June 2008, behind December's rate of 982,000.
Single-family home construction increased to an annual rate of 618,000, the most in four and half years. Apartment construction also ticked up, to 285,000.
The gains are likely to grow even faster in the coming months. Building permits, a sign of future construction, increased 4.6 percent to 946,000. That was also the most since June 2008, just a few months into the recession.
The figures for January and December were also revised upward. Housing starts have risen 28 percent over the last 12 months.
Separately, a private report showed that the number of Americans with equity in their homes increased last year. That suggested that one of the biggest drags from the housing crisis was easing, and it could clear the way for more people to put homes on the market.
''The road ahead for housing is still, so far, looking promising,'' Jennifer Lee, an economist at BMO Capital Markets, said in a note to clients.
The housing market is recovering after stagnating for roughly five years. Steady job gains and near-record-low mortgage rates have encouraged more people to buy.
Still, the supply of available homes for sale remained low. That has helped push up home prices. They rose nearly 10 percent in January compared with 12 months earlier, according to CoreLogic, a research firm, the biggest increase in nearly seven years.
Higher prices mean more Americans have equity in their homes. Last year, about 1.7 million Americans went from owing more on their mortgages than their homes were worth to having some ownership stake, CoreLogic reported on Tuesday. Still, 10.4 million households, or 21.5 percent of those with a mortgage, remain ''under water,'' or owe more on their home than it is worth.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (93%); BUILDING PERMITS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); MORTGAGE RATES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (57%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



629 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: European New-Car Sales Drop 10.2 Percent in February

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- European car sales keep falling, and American automakers are among the biggest losers in the shrinking market, industry data showed Tuesday.
European Union new passenger car registrations slid 10.5 percent in February from a year earlier, the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association said in Brussels. It was the 17th consecutive drop, with sales falling everywhere except Britain, where they rose 7.9 percent. 
E.U. sales, at 795,482 cars, came in at the lowest recorded for the month of February since the records started in 1990, Quynh-Nhu Huynh, statistical director for the automakers' association, said.
She noted that in February 1990, new car sales totaled 1.1 million -- at a time when the European Union had just 15 members.
The euro zone crisis, and the government budget-tightening measures prescribed to combat it, have hurt demand. Record unemployment has squeezed household budgets and left consumers reluctant to upgrade older models, and much of the younger generation lacks the means to purchase their first cars.
''Unless there's a turnaround in the middle of the year, we appear to be headed for the worst performance ever,'' Ms. Huynh said.
American automakers bore much of the brunt. General Motors' European sales slid 20.1 percent, while Ford Motor recorded a 20.8 percent drop.
The European market sales of Volkswagen, the largest E.U. automaker, fell 7.2 percent, while the region's No.2 carmaker, PSA Peugeot Citroën, fell 13.2 percent. Sales of Fiat, the Italian carmaker that controls Chrysler, fell 14 percent. Honda Motor led a handful of companies that posted gains, with its sales up 15 percent.
Ian Fletcher, an analyst at IHS Automotive in London, said that G.M., Ford, Fiat and Peugeot faced similar problems, with luxury carmakers reaching down to take their sales in a declining market, and cheaper models gaining at the bottom of the market.
''It's the squashed middle market,'' he said. ''They're facing pressure from the top of the market, from Mercedes and BMW, and pressure at the low end from the likes of Kia, Hyundai and Dacia.''
The U.S. carmakers, he said, are also suffering relative to other companies because they were less willing to offer buyer incentives, and were unable to match some rivals, particularly Volkswagen, on financing terms.
Mr. Fletcher said he expected car sales to grow this year in the United States, as well as in fast growing economies like China, Brazil, Russia and India.
He predicted that the European Union market, which shrank by 8.2 percent last year, was set for another 2.6 percent contraction this year, to around 11.8 million units.
There is hope, he said, that sales might bottom out before long, with gradual improvement possible by the end of the year. But with the monthly data as bad as they have been so far in 2013, he said, analysts might be looking at their forecasts again ''in the next few months'' for a possible downward revision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BUDGETS (88%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (85%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); UG (PAR) (85%); HNDA (LSE) (83%); HMC (NYSE) (83%); 7267 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHINA (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



630 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Many Israelis Wary of Obama, but Are Ready to Listen During Visit

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN and ISABEL KERSHNER; Tamir Elterman contributed reporting from Tel Aviv, and Irit Pazner Garshowitz from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Obama administration officials have made it clear that the top agenda item for the president's visit here this week is to win the hearts of the Israeli people. He has a lot of work to do.
''I don't trust him so much,'' Rachel Burger, 65, said Sunday between errands at a Jerusalem mall.
''Deep inside, I think, he doesn't like us,'' said Moshe Haim, an Iranian immigrant who drives a taxi in Tel Aviv.
''People don't get the love from Obama,'' said Rabbi Levi Weiman-Kelman, who leads the left-leaning Reform congregation Kol Haneshama and worked on a video encouraging American-Israelis to support the president's re-election last fall. ''Bush and Clinton and Carter, these guys all had such a deep religious passion about this place, and Obama doesn't convey that,'' he added. 
''He's a cool customer,'' said Rabbi Weiman-Kelman.
Though Israeli and American leaders of various political stripes insist that security, economic and intelligence cooperation between the two nations has never been closer or stronger, the personal, more emotional element of the relationship has been largely empty over the last four years.
The well-documented tensions between Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tell only part of the story: even Israelis who are harsh critics of their own leader felt snubbed when the American president skipped their homeland during his 2009 trip to the Middle East.
Many have never gotten over the speech he made then in Cairo, where he twice referred to ''Palestine'' in the present rather than future tense, and insinuated that Israel was rooted in the tragedy of the Holocaust rather than ancient history.
Others are still smarting from what they saw as Mr. Obama's misguided demand to freeze construction in the West Bank territories Israel seized in 1967 -- which yielded no results -- and what they believed was the president's too-swift abandonment of President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, a trusted ally.
So while many Israelis, like people around the world, were inspired by Mr. Obama's biography and energized by his underdog campaign in 2008, interviews with dozens of people this week suggest that the nation will greet him warily, akin to an estranged relative trying to reconnect. The White House has done everything it can to lower expectations of any major diplomatic initiative or breakthrough, leaving people searching for something much harder to define.
''It seems like people are looking for a leader,'' said Tchelet Semel, 32, who works in theater and film in Tel Aviv. ''They gave up on leadership from within, and they're hoping that someone will say the words and suddenly it will maybe rekindle the hope within the Israeli people.''
The novelist David Grossman, who is something of a national muse, said Israelis are ''terrified'' and ''suspicious,'' and need Mr. Obama to ''be a real friend to Israel.'' He added, ''A friend should tell us the truth, and not what we want to hear.''
''I wish he shows empathy to our anxieties; part of them are real,'' Mr. Grossman said. ''But I wish he would not collaborate with them, with our anxieties, to the extent he will justify doing nothing.''
The president will be preaching to a tough crowd. A poll published Friday in the Israeli daily newspaper Maariv found 1 in 10 Israelis have a ''favorable'' attitude toward Mr. Obama. (''Hateful'' registered 17 percent, ''unfavorable but not resentful,'' 19 percent, while a plurality -- 32 percent -- said they did not like Mr. Obama but respected him.)
''He's nice, he's O.K., but that's it,'' said Suzanne Betan, 70, a resident of Gilo, a neighborhood in the part of Jerusalem that Israel annexed in 1967, which much of the world considers occupied territory, and where the White House has condemned construction. ''He is not completely with us, but he is not against us.''
Rabbi Shlomo Riskin, who came to Jerusalem from New York in 1983 to found the West Bank settlement of Efrat, said: ''In action, he's been excellent to us. But the music in his words has left a lot to be desired, and that's what everyone would like to hear today.''
Among other challenges, the timing complicates his mission. Mr. Obama lands days ahead of Passover, a frenzied period of shopping and school vacation, so the typical grumbling about road closings is especially fevered. Israelis are also preoccupied with their new government, which was sworn in on Monday, relegating articles about the visit to the back pages of local newspapers.
With Air Force One scheduled to land at noon Wednesday, hundreds of American and Israeli flags have been raised on roadsides, and posters with the visit's ''unbreakable alliance'' logo have been posted at the entrance to Jerusalem. An Obama ice sculpture is in the works, and the prime minister's office has a smartphone application allowing users to track the motorcade's every move.
In an itinerary packed with diplomatic meetings and symbolic photo ops, the expected highlight is a speech Thursday to an audience mostly of university students.
''Maybe the visit will not have any immediate impact, but Obama will set his ideas in their hearts,'' said Ruth Shafir, the spokeswoman of the student union at Ben Gurion University in the southern city of Beersheba. ''And maybe the young generation will take it to the next level and can carry it forward.''
Part of the challenge for Mr. Obama is competing with his predecessors, particularly President Bill Clinton, whom Moshe Halbertal, a professor of philosophy at Hebrew University, said could still get elected prime minister in Israel. Mr. Clinton's poignant uttering of ''Shalom, chaver'' -- Goodbye, friend -- at the funeral of the assassinated prime minister Yitzhak Rabin, in 1995, is seared in memory here as a totem of understanding, nearly impossible to match.
''Clinton was really a magician in this respect,'' said Tamar Hermann, a public opinion expert who is vice president of the Open University. ''His ability to project warmth is something that's a heart-opener here.''
Ms. Hermann added of President Obama: ''I'm not saying they are examining objectively what he did or what he didn't. Either you feel it or you don't.''
When Mr. Obama was first elected in 2008, Kippa Man, a skullcap store on the Ben-Yehuda pedestrian mall, stocked one crocheted with his signature slogan, ''Yes we can.'' Though that was a big seller, the store's owner, Avi Benjamin, said Sunday that it had not occurred to him to order up a commemorative item for this week's visit.
Back then, Mr. Benjamin recalled, ''people thought he was the messiah.''
A customer, Elyassaf Yakobson, sighed and said, ''It seems we have to wait.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); FILM (69%); RELIGION (69%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (90%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (68%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



631 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Little Change at Close Despite Cyprus Situation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market changed little on Tuesday as investors focused on the continuing financial problems in Cyprus, which offset good news about the American housing market.
The Dow Jones industrial average eked out a gain of less than four points, while other indexes closed slightly lower. Lawmakers in Cyprus voted against a proposed bailout plan for its banks that would have called for taxing ordinary depositors.
The vote leaves Cyprus's bailout from international lenders in question. Without external money, the country's banks could collapse and the government could have to leave the euro. 
Many investors are betting that the worst case will not come to pass, however, especially since the president of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, has vowed to take any steps necessary to preserve the 17-nation currency union.
''The concern in the market is that they could default or they could be forced out of the euro zone, and that would create a precedent,'' said Alec Young, a global equity strategist with S&P Capital IQ. ''The selling, though, is fairly contained, and that tells you most people think there will be some kind of compromise.''
The Dow and other market indexes began the day higher after a government report of a surprisingly large increase in new building permits in February. It turned lower at midday as the Parliament of Cyprus began debating a plan from the country's lenders to seize up to 10 percent of the money held in savings accounts. The market steadied in the afternoon after the vote.
On Tuesday, the Dow rose 3.76 points to close at 14,455.82.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 3.76 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,548.34. The Nasdaq composite fell 8.50 points, or 0.3 percent, to 3,229.10.
The stock market declined on Monday. The Dow gave up 62 points after a weekend in which Cyprus's leaders acceded to demands from European lenders to seize depositors' money, a move that was met with public outrage.
Joseph Tanious, global market strategist at J.P. Morgan Funds, said investors should not overreact to developments in the Europe sovereign debt crisis but instead should take a step back and remember Mr. Draghi's pledge to preserve the euro. ''Do not underestimate the power of the E.C.B.,'' Mr. Tanious said.
The American stock market has shown considerable strength this year. The Dow is up 10.3 percent. It broke through its previous high, without adjustment for inflation, on March 5, driven by improvements in housing and a pickup in hiring. Strong company earnings and stimulus from the Federal Reserve are also helping increase demand for stocks.
The S.& P. 500 is up 8.6 percent in 2013 and is 17 points from its nominal closing high of 1,565.15, reached on October 2007.
The Federal Reserve opened its second policy meeting of the year on Tuesday. On Wednesday, it will issue a policy statement and update its economic forecasts. The Fed is not expected to let up in its drive to stimulate the economy by keeping interest rates at near-record lows.
''What the Fed has done has really helped the market recover,'' said Maury Fertig, chief investment officer at Relative Value Partners. ''They're not going to pull away prematurely.''
Investors are putting more money to stocks, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch survey published on Tuesday. The survey of fund managers showed that 57 percent of investors favored allocating money to stocks, the highest percentage in more than two years.
In the bond market, interest rates fell. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 15/32, to 100 28/32, while its yield fell to 1.90 percent from 1.96 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); EURO ZONE (75%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); FOREIGN LENDING (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (58%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CYPRUS (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



632 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Reining In Payday Lenders

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase will make changes to protect consumers who have borrowed money from a rising power on the Internet -- payday lenders offering short-term loans with interest rates that can exceed 500 percent.
JPMorgan, the nation's largest bank by assets, will give customers whose bank accounts are tapped by the online payday lenders more power to halt withdrawals and close their accounts.
Under changes to be unveiled on Wednesday, JPMorgan will also limit the fees it charges customers when the withdrawals set off penalties for returned payments or insufficient funds. 
The policy shift is playing out as the nation's biggest lenders face heightened scrutiny from federal and state regulators for enabling online payday lenders to thwart state law. With 15 states banning payday loans, a growing number of the lenders have set up online operations in more hospitable states or foreign locales like Belize, Malta and the West Indies to more nimbly dodge statewide caps on interest rates.
Bank of America and Wells Fargo said that their policies on payday loans remained unchanged.
At an investor meeting in February, Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, called the practice, which was the subject of an article in The New York Times last month, ''terrible.'' He vowed to change it.
While JPMorgan Chase never directly made the loans, the bank, along with other major banks, is a critical link for the payday lenders. The banks allow the lenders to automatically withdraw payments from borrowers' bank accounts, even in states like New York where the loans are illegal. The withdrawals often continue unabated, even after customers plead with the banks to stop the payments, according to interviews with consumer lawyers, banking regulators and lawmakers.
The changes at JPMorgan, which will go into effect by the end of May, will keep bank customers from racking up hundreds of dollars in fees, generated when the payday lenders repeatedly try to debit borrowers' accounts. Still, the changes will not prevent the payday lenders from extending high-cost credit to people living in the states where the loans are banned.
It is possible that other lenders could institute changes, especially because rivals have followed JPMorgan's lead in recent years. In 2009, for example, after JPMorgan capped overdraft fees at three a day, Wells Fargo also changed its policies to reduce the number of daily penalties charged.
The changes come as state and federal officials are zeroing in on how the banks enable online payday lenders to bypass state laws that ban the loans. By allowing the payday lenders to easily access customers' accounts, the authorities say the banks frustrate government efforts to protect borrowers from the loans, which some authorities have decried as predatory.
Both the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau are scrutinizing how the banks enable the lenders to dodge restrictions, according to several people with direct knowledge of the matter. In New York, where JPMorgan has its headquarters, Benjamin M. Lawsky, the state's top banking regulator, is investigating the bank's role in enabling lenders to break state law, which caps interest rates on loans at 25 percent.
Facing restrictions across the country, payday lenders have migrated online and offshore. There is scant data about how many lenders have moved online, but as of 2011, the volume of online payday loans was $13 billion, up more than 120 percent from $5.8 billion in 2006, according to John Hecht, an analyst with the investment bank Stephens Inc.
By 2016, Mr. Hecht expects Internet loans to dominate the payday lending landscape, making up about 60 percent of the total payday loans extended.
JPMorgan said that the bank will charge only one returned item fee per lender in a 30-day period when customers do not have enough money in their accounts to cover the withdrawals.
That shift is likely to help borrowers like Ivy Brodsky, 37, who was charged $1,523 in fees -- a combination of insufficient funds, service fees and overdraft fees -- in a single month after six Internet payday lenders tried to withdraw money from her account 55 times.
Another change at JPMorgan is intended to address the difficulty that payday loan customers face when they try to pay off their loans in full. Unless a customer contacts the online lender three days before the next withdrawal, the lender just rolls the loan over automatically, withdrawing solely the interest owed.
Even borrowers who contact lenders days ahead of time can find themselves lost in a dizzying Internet maze, according to consumer lawyers. Requests are not honored, callers reach voice recordings and the withdrawals continue, the lawyers say.
For borrowers, frustrated and harried, the banks are often the last hope to halt the debits. Although under federal law customers have the right to stop withdrawals, some borrowers say their banks do not honor their requests.
Polly Larimer, who lives in Richmond, Va., said she begged Bank of America last year to stop payday lenders from eroding what little money she had in her account. Ms. Larimer said that the bank did not honor her request for five months. In that time period, she was charged more than $1,300 in penalty fees, according to bank statements reviewed by The Times. Bank of America declined to comment.
To combat such problems, JPMorgan said the bank will provide training to their employees so that stop-payment requests are honored.
JPMorgan will also make it much easier for customers to close their bank accounts. Until now, bank customers could not close their checking accounts unless all pending charges have been settled. The bank will now allow customers to close accounts if pending charges are deemed ''inappropriate.''
Some of the changes at JPMorgan Chase echo a bill introduced in July by Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, to further rein in payday lending.
A critical piece of that bill, pending in Congress, would enable borrowers to more easily halt the automatic withdrawals. The bill would also force lenders to abide by laws in the state where the borrower lives, rather than where the lender is.
JPMorgan Chase said it is ''working to proactively identify'' when lenders misuse automatic withdrawals. When the bank identifies those problems, it said, it will report errant lenders to the National Automated Clearing House Association, which oversees electronic withdrawals.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: JPMorgan Chase plans to give customers more power over their high-interest payday loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (93%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); PREDATORY LENDING (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



633 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: A Model For Reducing Emissions

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Who would have thought the United States would one day be a leader in cutting greenhouse gas emissions?
This is the nation, after all, where a former chairman of the Senate committee on the environment, James Inhofe, wrote a book about global warming called ''The Greatest Hoax.'' This is where a presidential election took place not six months ago in which climate change barely merited a mention, buried under an avalanche of promises to dig for coal and drill for oil.
Fuel economy performance for cars and trucks is still among the worst in the developed world. And only 7 percent of the nation's energy comes from renewable sources, less than in most other advanced nations.
Yet when President Obama talked about the nation's energy revolution during his State of the Union address last month, he could have boasted that American emissions of CO2 had fallen almost 13 percent since 2007. It was perhaps the biggest decline among industrial countries, and substantially steeper than in Europe, which has been much more committed to combating climate change. 
Carbon emissions from the United States have never fallen this much, not after the first oil price shock following the Arab oil embargo of 1973, nor after the Iranian revolution of 1979, when American drivers suddenly discovered the virtues of Japanese small cars and President Jimmy Carter installed solar panels on the White House to heat the water.
What stands out most in this shift, however, is not environmental regulation or public concern about global warming but the price of energy and market-driven technological advancements. ''It wasn't so much a policy shift that brought carbon emissions down,'' said James Hamilton, an energy economist at the University of California, San Diego. ''It was irresistible market forces.''
The United States consumes 9 percent less energy for each $1 of G.D.P. than it did five years ago. Total energy use has fallen about 5 percent in the last five years.
To be sure, regulations have contributed to the process; tighter fuel economy standards are expected to lead automakers to double the fuel efficiency of new cars and light trucks by 2025. Tax breaks are encouraging companies to invest in renewable energy sources and retrofit buildings to increase energy efficiency.
But the main reasons are economic. The great recession and the world's sluggish recovery have depressed energy use. As in the 1970s, high oil prices have encouraged drivers to drive less, and switch to cars and trucks with better fuel economy.
There is a new force as well: high prices underpinned the widely trumpeted investment in hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, of shale rock rich in oil and natural gas, which pushed the price of gas to some $2 per thousand cubic feet last April, down from $9 four years ago. Cheap gas, in turn, has encouraged power companies to switch to the cleaner fuel, replacing the most heavily polluting source of energy that we know, coal.
Since 2007 the share of the nation's electricity produced by gas-powered generators has jumped to 30 percent from 21 percent; CO2 emissions from electricity generation have tumbled more than 15 percent. This new fuel brings potential problems of its own. Environmental groups have sounded the alarm about chemicals and methane leaking from wells, potentially contaminating local water supplies and releasing additional carbon into the air.
But fracking also appears, against all odds, to have brought Mr. Obama's early, hopeful promise to cut CO2 emissions by 17 percent between 2005 and 2020 within reach.
Will our carbon footprint continue to shrink? The Energy Department forecasts that CO2 emissions will tick up nearly 2 percent this year and 0.7 percent in 2014, as the economy recovers. Coal use in power plants is also expected to rebound as gas prices rise from their 2012 trough.
Historical precedent is not promising. The drive for energy efficiency that started in the 1970s did not continue once oil prices fell in the 1980s; among other things, American drivers fell in love with S.U.V.'s and trucks. In 1981, the Ford F-series pickup truck became the nation's best-selling light vehicle. In 1986, Ronald Reagan had the White House solar panels taken down.
Nonetheless, there are some encouraging signs that this time may be different. The shift from coal to gas-fired power plants should be sped up by new rules requiring old coal generators to install expensive environmental equipment. Oil prices are supported by fast rising demand from the developing world and are unlikely to plunge despite new sources found in Canadian tar sands and American shale.
The United States' experience with new fuels also offers some options for countries intent on pursuing economic growth while restraining carbon emissions.
China is rushing to develop its large fields of shale gas. Europe -- where natural gas, most of it imported from Russia, is expensive and power plants rely heavily on coal -- may follow suit. Several European governments have banned fracking or imposed sharp restrictions on it, but some -- like Britain -- are moving ahead.
Still, the United States' serendipitous success in reducing greenhouse gas emissions suggests how much more needs to be done than switching from a particularly dirty source of carbon to a cleaner one.
Even if every American coal-fired power plant were to close, that would not make up for the coal-based generators being built in developing countries like India and China. ''Since 2000, the growth in coal has been 10 times that of renewables,'' said Daniel Yergin, chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
Fatih Birol, chief economist of the International Energy Agency in Paris, points out that if civilization is to avoid catastrophic climate change, only about one third of the 3,000 gigatons of CO2 contained in the world's known reserves of oil, gas and coal can be released into the atmosphere.
But the world economy does not work as if this were the case -- not governments, nor businesses, nor consumers.
''In all my experience as an oil company manager, not a single oil company took into the picture the problem of CO2,'' said Leonardo Maugeri, an energy expert at Harvard who until 2010 was head of strategy and development for Italy's state-owned oil company, Eni. ''They are all totally devoted to replacing the reserves they consume every year.''
Perhaps the most important lesson from the American natural gas boom is how prices drive both demand and supply. Putting a price on emissions of CO2 that reflects the burden they impose on the environment and the threat excessive amounts pose to future generations would almost certainly be the most effective strategy to persuade energy companies, power generators -- and you and me -- to spew less of it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: High energy prices have spurred investment in hydraulic fracturing of shale rock to tap oil and natural gas, as seen near Troy, Pa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B10) CHART: Cleaner Fuel Means Lower Emissions: Emissions of CO2 into the atmosphere have dropped sharply. One of the main reasons has been the replacement of coal with natural gas for power generation. (Source: Energy Information Administration) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); GASOLINE PRICES (66%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



634 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Ten Years After

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Ten years after it began, the Iraq war still haunts the United States in the nearly 4,500 troops who died there; the more than 30,000 American wounded who have come home; the more than $2 trillion spent on combat operations and reconstruction, which inflated the deficit; and in the lessons learned about the limits of American leadership and power.
It haunts Iraq too, where the total number of casualties is believed to have surpassed 100,000 but has never been officially determined; and where one strongman was traded for another, albeit under a more pluralistic system with a democratic veneer. The country is increasingly influenced by Iran and buffeted by the regional turmoil caused by the Arab Spring. 
In 2003, President George W. Bush and Paul Wolfowitz, the deputy defense secretary, used the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, to wage pre-emptive war against Saddam Hussein and a nuclear arsenal that did not exist. They promised a ''free and peaceful Iraq'' that would be a model of democracy and stability in the Arab world. While no one laments Saddam's passing and violence is down from peak war levels, the country is fragile, with grave tensions between Sunnis and Shiites and Arabs and Kurds that could yet erupt into civil war or tear the state apart.
A State Department travel warning last month described Iraq as dangerous, with numerous insurgents, including Al Qaeda in Iraq, still active, and said Americans were ''at risk for kidnapping and terrorist violence.'' On Tuesday, a wave of car bombings and other attacks in Baghdad killed more than 50 people and wounded nearly 200.
Yet none of the Bush administration's war architects have been called to account for their mistakes, and even now, many are invited to speak on policy issues as if they were not responsible for one of the worst strategic blunders in American foreign policy. In a video posted recently by the conservative American Enterprise Institute, Mr. Wolfowitz said he still believed the war was the right thing to do. Will he and his partners ever have the humility to admit that it was wrong to prosecute this war?
President Obama opposed the Iraq war from the start and has been single-minded about ending it, withdrawing the last combat troops in 2011. American influence in Iraq has greatly declined since then and Mr. Obama's attention, like that of most Americans, has shifted to other priorities. Iraqis are responsible for their own future. But the country is a front line in the conflict between moderate Islam and Al Qaeda, not to mention its role as an oil producer. It requires more sustained American involvement than we have recently seen.
Iraq is a reminder of the need for political leaders to ask the right questions before allowing military action and to listen honestly rather than acting on ideological or political impulses. Mr. Bush led the war, but Democrats as well as Republicans in Congress endorsed it. Iraq also shows the limits of America's influence in regions where sectarian enmity remains strong and where democracy has no real history.
That experience is informing American policy judgments more generally. It has affected decisions about Syria, where President Obama has been right to move cautiously. For a long time the Syrian opposition was divided, and it was hard to know which group, if any, deserved help. It also made sense not to rush into another costly war in another Arab country that could fuel new anti-American animosities and embroil the United States for another decade.
But with the Syrian conflict in its third year, the fighting has already spilled over the borders, destabilizing its neighbors, even as Al Qaeda-affiliated rebels play a bigger role. The reasons for opposing direct American involvement in Syria remain strong, but the United States needs to calibrate its policies continually and should not allow the Iraq experience to paralyze its response to different circumstances.
The lessons of Iraq, however, seem to fade when it comes to Iran. Many of the conservatives who strongly supported the charge into Iraq are fanning calls for United States military action to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. President Obama has also been threatening ''all options'' if negotiations to curb Iran's ambitions are not successful, and many lawmakers seem ready to take action against Iran soon.
The Iraq war was unnecessary, costly and damaging on every level. It was based on faulty intelligence manipulated for ideological reasons. The terrible human and economic costs over the past 10 years show why that must never happen again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); AL-QAEDA (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (52%)

ORGANIZATION: JAMA'AT AL-TAWHID WAL-JIHAD (AL-QAIDA IN IRAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (52%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



635 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: For the G.O.P., It's Not Just the Message

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The battering that Republican candidates suffered in 2012 -- particularly among women and minorities -- seems finally to have worked its way into the party's cerebral cortex. For weeks, party leaders like Eric Cantor have talked about broadening the party's appeal, and on Monday, Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, unveiled a lengthy report that took the party to task for alienating large segments of the public. 
The Washington wing of the Republican party is ''increasingly marginalizing itself,'' the report says, making it harder to win future presidential races. As the party drives around in ''an ideological cul-de-sac,'' its public reputation has hit record lows. ''We have become expert in how to provide ideological reinforcement to like-minded people,'' the report says, ''but devastatingly we have lost the ability to be persuasive with or welcoming to those who do not agree with us on every issue.''
This is an encouragingly candid self-assessment on the part of Republican leaders and could be the beginning of the party's return to the mainstream. Unfortunately, the report seems overly focused on the mechanics of how Republicans should focus their message, conveniently ignoring what that message should be. And for years, the party's message has been the opposite of inclusion, driving away the very voters the report seeks to attract.
The report, for example, says that Republicans have ''a lot in common'' with African-Americans, and should hire more black communications directors and make more of an effort to draw black voters. It doesn't mention, however, that Republican lawmakers across the country have avidly passed laws that make it harder for blacks and other minorities to vote, as part of an effort to reduce the turnout of Democrats. Repudiating these measures should be high on the list of any party that claims to be interested in ''outreach'' to minorities.
It talks about ''developing a forward-leaning vision for voting Republican that appeals to women,'' without ever using the words ''abortion'' or ''birth control'' or even hinting that the party's policies on these issues have repelled women by the millions.
Most significant, the report shows no recognition that the Republican goals of shrinking government and lowering taxes for the rich -- which have turned particularly malicious during the Tea Party era -- have proved brutally unpopular at a time when the recession left more people in need of government assistance than ever. The party's job, it says, ''is to champion private growth so people will not turn to the government in the first place,'' but the party has never been able to demonstrate how its trickle-down agenda of cutting budgets and taxes, embodied by the new Paul Ryan House budget, would do that.
The report should be commended for urging more tolerant policies on immigration and gay issues (though it is hardly specific). But the party will have to move much farther from its extremist tendencies if it hopes to expand its appeal in the long term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); BRAIN (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



636 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2075 words

HEADLINE: Jailed for 2 Decades in Rabbi's Death, Unjustly, Prosecutors Find

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and SHARON OTTERMAN

 BODY:
In the wintry darkness 23 years ago on a back street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, a jewelry thief fleeing a botched robbery panicked and shot a Hasidic rabbi in the head.
Four days later, the rabbi, Chaskel Werzberger, an Auschwitz survivor, died of his wounds. Even in the New York City of 1990, as homicides crested at 2,245, the murder stirred grief and outrage. The ''Slain Rabbi'' was front-page tabloid news. Mayor David N. Dinkins traveled to Williamsburg's Satmar enclave to sit in mourning and to offer a $10,000 reward.
The new Brooklyn district attorney, Charles J. Hynes, stood shoulder to shoulder with fur-hat-wearing Satmars, watching as they rocked back and forth and wailed as the pinewood coffin was carried out. He vowed to bring the killer to justice.
Forty detectives worked the case, soon led by the swaggering, cigar-chewing Detective Louis Scarcella. Working closely with an influential Satmar rabbi, Detective Scarcella arrested a drug-addicted, unemployed printer named David Ranta. Hasidic Jews surrounded the car that carried the accused man to jail, slapping the roof and chanting, ''Death penalty!'' 
Mr. Ranta was convicted in May 1991 and sentenced to 37.5 years in maximum-security prison, where he remains to this day.
He is almost certainly not guilty.
This week Mr. Hynes, after a long investigation by a unit that he created to look into questionable convictions, plans to ask a state judge to release the prisoner. Mr. Ranta's lawyer, Pierre Sussman, who conducted his own inquiry, said his client has been instructed to pack up his cell.
Mr. Ranta could walk free as early as Thursday. In the decades since a jury convicted him of murder, nearly every piece of evidence in this case has fallen away. A key witness told The New York Times that a detective instructed him to select Mr. Ranta in the lineup. A convicted rapist told the district attorney that he falsely implicated Mr. Ranta in hopes of cutting a deal for himself. A woman has signed an affidavit saying she too lied about Mr. Ranta's involvement.
Detective Scarcella and his partner, Stephen Chmil, according to investigators and legal documents, broke rule after rule. They kept few written records, coached a witness and took Mr. Ranta's confession under what a judge described as highly dubious circumstances. They allowed two dangerous criminals, an investigator said, to leave jail, smoke crack cocaine and visit with prostitutes in exchange for incriminating Mr. Ranta.
At trial, prosecutors acknowledged the detectives had misbehaved but depicted them as likable scamps. Reached in retirement on Tuesday, Mr. Scarcella defended his work. ''I never framed anyone in my life,'' he said.
No physical evidence ever connected Mr. Ranta to the murder.
He now sits in a cell at a maximum-security prison outside Buffalo. He is a touch shy; his gray hair is fast thinning. His voice still carries the slantwise intonations of working-class south Brooklyn. Asked how he survived, he said he was not sure he had.
''I'd lie there in the cell at night and I think: I'm the only one in the world who knows I'm innocent,'' he said. ''I came in here as a 30-something with kids, a mother who was alive. This case killed my whole life.''
A Guilty Verdict
It began with a fumbled robbery on Feb. 8, 1990.
Chaim Weinberger, a courier for Pan American Diamond Corporation, left his apartment in a public housing tower in Williamsburg, pulling a 50-pound suitcase filled with diamonds and precious gems. He had to catch a 7 a.m. flight to the Dominican Republic, where his cargo would be cut into jewelry.
His trips were predictable and easily timed; he worried about robbery. In the lobby, he saw a tall, blond, strikingly handsome guy, ''like a lifeguard on the beach,'' Mr. Weinberger said. They stared at each other.
The blond man walked downstairs.
As Mr. Weinberger hurried beneath towering sycamores to the street, he saw the man trailing him. He tossed the suitcase into the trunk and started his engine. The blond man strode quickly now, covering his face with a handkerchief and pulling out a silver gun.
Mr. Weinberger put the car into reverse and knocked the gunman into a trash heap. He sped away, his door flapping open. He did not stop until he got to the airport, he recalled in an interview.
Tragedy unfolded behind him. The robber, unnerved, spotted Rabbi Werzberger warming up his blue 1985 Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme before driving to a synagogue. He ran over, fired a shot, pulled out the mortally wounded rabbi and drove off in his car.
This murder tore at the heart of the then-25,000-strong Satmar community. Rabbi Werzberger was their shamas and adviser to the grand rebbe. The Satmar, the intensely devout, politically powerful ultra-Orthodox sect, demanded that the police find his killer. Rabbi Leib Glantz became their point man.
Rabbi Glantz rounded up witnesses, brought them to the precinct and translated from Yiddish as detectives conducted interviews.
Detectives worked furiously, calling in paroled felons and miscreants of many varieties for questioning. An anonymous caller suggested that the police talk to Joseph Astin, an experienced holdup man who was tall and blond, with rugged good looks. But on April 2, Mr. Astin crashed his car in a police chase and died.
In late April, Detective Scarcella went to jail and visited Dmitry Drikman, a mustachioed bull of a man with a perpetual glower. Mr. Drikman was being held for several robberies, and had in the past been convicted of a horrific rape.
Mr. Drikman, in hopes of obtaining a shorter sentence, proved talkative. He gave Detective Scarcella the name of his friend, Alan Bloom.
Mr. Bloom, a crack-cocaine addict, had been convicted of dozens of robberies and faced a potential century in prison. He decided to start talking.
The detectives placed Mr. Bloom and Mr. Drikman in the same section of the jail, so they could continue their conversation. Soon they had their story: Mr. Bloom had had a hand in the robbery, but an acquaintance, David Ranta, a small-time thief and drug user, was the gunman. And Mr. Drikman's girlfriend told detectives she had seen Mr. Ranta and Mr. Bloom planning to cover up the crime.
District Attorney Hynes shook hands with Mr. Bloom shortly before prosecutors gave him immunity from prosecution in the murder case and greatly reduced his sentence for other crimes.
On Aug. 13, Detectives Scarcella and Chmil found Mr. Ranta on 73rd Street in Bensonhurst. They handcuffed him and drove to the 90th Precinct in Williamsburg.
Detective Scarcella testified at Mr. Ranta's trial that, 26 hours later, he sat on a bench in a crowded office and listened as Mr. Ranta, with little or no sleep, gave a long, rambling confession.
The detective said he did not have to ask Mr. Ranta a single question. ''He flowed, and I took it all down, verbatim,'' the detective testified.
Asked why he did not question the suspect, Detective Scarcella was nonchalant.
''That's not my style,'' he replied.
The case was laden with inconsistencies. Mr. Weinberger had stared the gunman in the face and testified during the trial that Mr. Ranta was ''100 percent not'' that person. In fact, four of the five witnesses in the first lineup did not identify Mr. Ranta.
In the end, however, the jury pronounced Mr. Ranta guilty.
Before his sentencing, Mr. Ranta addressed the court. He spoke of corrupt police officers and those who testified against him.
''Now you people do what you got to do because I feel this is all a total frame setup,'' he told the court. ''When I come down on my appeal, I hope to God he brings out the truth because a lot of people are going to be ashamed of themselves.''
Behind the Scenes
During the trial, Detective Scarcella proved to be an entertaining witness. A son of Bensonhurst, a professed old-school detective, he talked about how to make a suspect talk and where to buy the best pizza (New Haven, he advised). But his description of his investigation angered the judge, Francis X. Egitto.
Asked why he took prisoners out of jail to eat at restaurants and visit felonious friends, Detective Scarcella replied, ''I do what I want to do with my prisoners.''
''They're not your prisoners,'' Justice Egitto responded.
The detective testified that while interviewing Mr. Bloom and Mr. Drikman, he never wrote a single note, as required by police procedure. Nor did he show witnesses photographs of Mr. Drikman or Mr. Bloom, although they were murder suspects.
The judge in particular questioned how Detective Scarcella obtained Mr. Ranta's confession, asking why a veteran detective did not take Mr. Ranta to an interview room, where he could have tape-recorded it. Detective Scarcella said he transcribed the 658-word confession by hand.
Mr. Ranta has insisted he confessed to nothing. He passed a polygraph test in which he was asked if he shot the rabbi.
Midway through the trial, the judge spoke to the lawyers of his mistrust of these detectives. They are playing games, he said. They have ''taken it upon themselves to be judge, jury and partial executioner.''
Yet, when he instructed the jury on what to consider during deliberation, he mentioned none of his concerns.
Four years later, new doubts arose. In 1996, Theresa Astin testified that her husband, Mr. Astin, who had died in that car wreck in April 1990, had murdered the rabbi. She knew details of the killing that only someone close to it would. Mr. Ranta's defense lawyer, Michael Baum, filed a court motion.
Ms. Astin turned out to be a complicated witness.
In the early 1980s, she was the girlfriend of Joe Sullivan, a freelance hit-man known as Mad Dog who killed at least 11 men.
Afterward, she married and settled down in the Gravesend neighborhood with Mr. Astin, a mechanic with a cocaine problem and a tendency to pull armed robberies.
Snarled though her personal life was, Ms. Astin told a compelling tale: Her husband had planned a robbery, and he came home shaking and nearly in tears on the day the rabbi was shot. Later she found him in the bathroom, dismantling a pistol.
''He said, 'I hurt someone, something happened,' '' Ms. Astin testified. ''He was crying, he was scared.''
'' 'You're in trouble, Joe. It's like you killed a priest in our religion,' '' she warned him. Justice Egitto handled the court hearing. Again he wrote of troubling facts -- and refused to toss the verdict.
Mr. Ranta feared he had exhausted every option for appeal. ''I figured I was going to die in prison,'' he recalled.
Case Falls Apart
Every Christmas, Mr. Baum received a Christmas card from Mr. Ranta. ''I never had any doubt in my mind he was innocent,'' Mr. Baum said in an interview. ''I sleep with it every night.''
Sixteen months ago, the district attorney, promoting his newly established Conviction Integrity Unit, gave a talk to the public defenders. Does anyone, he asked, know of cases that should be re-examined?
Mr. Baum raised his hand.
In the Bronx, Pierre Sussman, a defense lawyer hunting for evidence of police misconduct, noticed that Detective Scarcella's name showed up in several troubled cases. He did a computer search, discovered Mr. Ranta's name and visited him in prison, where he agreed to take on his case.
Soon the last vestiges of evidence fell away. A man who was 13 at the time of the murder, Menachem Lieberman, testified back then that he had seen Mr. Ranta sitting in a car near the murder site.
Now, reached at his home in Montreal, Mr. Lieberman said the case had nagged at him for years. ''Before I entered the'' lineup room, he told investigators, ''a police detective told me to 'pick the guy with big nose.' ''
He picked Mr. Ranta, he said, ''because he had the biggest nose.''
And Mr. Drikman's girlfriend, Elizabeth Cruz, also abandoned her story and apologized. ''I made up everything,'' she said in an affidavit, in hopes of gaining a deal for her boyfriend.
Mr. Drikman also stated that he fabricated his account, and that detectives and Mr. Bloom ''framed'' Mr. Ranta.
The case against Mr. Ranta had come undone.
''What's important to me is that this fellow should not be in prison one day longer,'' Mr. Hynes said in a telephone interview on Tuesday.
All that remains is for Mr. Ranta, now 58, to feel the shackles taken off his hands and legs and stand before a State Supreme Court judge.
''I've lived years in a cage, stripped down, humiliated,'' he said. ''I'll be able to touch people again, to make decisions.''
He took a great gulp of air. ''To be honest, what's ahead scares me.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thousands of mourners attended the funeral for Rabbi Chaskel Werzberger in Brooklyn in 1990. Forty detectives worked on his murder case, but in the end, a jury convicted the wrong man, David Ranta, shown below then and now. He may soon be freed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DITH PRAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
David Ranta, 58, who is incarcerated at Wende Correctional Facility in Alden, N.Y., may be released as early as Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Rabbi Chaskel Werzberger was shot to death. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZMAN MAGAZINE)
Mr. Ranta, being led out of the 90th Precinct in August 1990 by Detectives Stephen Chmil, left, and Louis Scarcella. He was convicted in May 1991 despite no physical evidence connecting him to the murder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE)
 Joseph Astin, who died in 1990, was later accused of being the real killer. (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RELIGION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); MURDER (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); EVIDENCE (87%); PRISONS (87%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); HOMICIDE (76%); JUDGES (75%); ARRESTS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (73%); COCAINE (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); SENTENCING (71%); JURY TRIALS (71%); VERDICTS (71%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); PROSTITUTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



637 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Deal for Trade Center Observatory Is Set

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
New York's newest and tallest observation deck will offer an interactive immersion in all things New York as it shuttles visitors 102 floors into the sky and provides panoramic views of the city and beyond, from the harbor to Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
A projected 3.5 million visitors a year to the three-level observatory at 1 World Trade Center will be able see the history of New York City on video screens, punch up the number of available seats for a Broadway show or a Yankees game, and glimpse Rockefeller Center, the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, West Point and MetLife Stadium in New Jersey. 
When the observatory opens more than 1,230 feet above Vesey Street in 2015, it will take its place among the highest decks in the nation, passing the one at the Empire State Building by a few feet but falling roughly 10 stories short of Chicago's Willis Tower Skydeck.
At its board meeting on Wednesday, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is expected to approve a 15-year deal with Legends Hospitality Management to operate the observation deck that, officials say, could generate as much as $875 million in revenue for the authority over the life of the contract.
The contract is yet another indication that the 1,776-foot tower is nearing completion, a symbol of what officials say is the resilience of New York after the 2001 attack on the trade center. Port Authority officials view the deal as vindication for erecting one of the most expensive office towers built in the United States, at more than $3 billion.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said in a statement released Tuesday, ''Today's announcement builds on the tremendous progress we have made at the World Trade Center site over the past couple of years and marks the continued rebirth of Lower Manhattan.'' He continued, ''The observation deck will add hundreds of jobs in New York and add to the resurgence of the state economy.''
The contract will put Legends, the company that runs marketing, merchandising and luxury boxes for the earthbound stadiums of the New York Yankees and the Dallas Cowboys, in charge of New York's highest perch. Although it has no experience running observation decks, Legends has guaranteed the Port Authority an annual rent and a percentage of revenues. It has also brought in Phil Hettema of the Hettema Group, who developed the Amazing Adventures of Spider-Man and other theme park attractions for Universal, to design the three-story attraction, which will cost about $62 million.
Legends, led by David W. Checketts, the former president of Madison Square Garden, won a fierce competition to run the observatory, outbidding seven rivals, including Montparnasse 56 USA, an affiliate of a French firm that runs observatories in Paris and Berlin and at the John Hancock Tower in Chicago.
Observatories, once an afterthought for every tall tower, have become a lucrative business. Indeed, the Empire State Building observation decks drew over four million visitors last year and generated net income of $60.6 million in 2011. If all goes according to plan, Port Authority officials expect the new observation deck in Lower Manhattan to account for a hefty 40 percent of the revenue from 1 World Trade Center.
But there is also lots of tower-top competition for visitors to New York City and the payments to the Port Authority will depend on a steady stream of visitors. The Related Companies announced last year that it had designed a multilevel observatory with an outdoor terrace for its planned 1,300-foot skyscraper at Hudson Yards on the West Side. It is unclear, however, when that tower will be built.
Top of the Rock, the observation deck at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in Midtown, reopened in 2005 and now draws about 2.5 million patrons. The better known Empire State Building, which has observatories on the 86th and 102nd floors, operates at capacity during peak holiday periods. In any event, Legends will need ties to travel operators in Asia and Europe who buy blocks of tickets at a substantial discount for tour packages.
It is unlikely, experts say, that tourists will visit more than one observatory. Downtown, the Statue of Liberty, the September 11 Memorial and Museum and Wall Street will vie with 1 World Trade Center for their attention.
At 1 World Trade Center, visitors will enter one of five dedicated elevators that rise to the 102nd floor, where there will be an ''experiential'' theater presentation, which opens up to reveal the views, and an event space for private parties. There will be a restaurant and gift shop on the 101st floor and another observation deck on the 100th floor.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); BASEBALL (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (69%); SPORTS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (67%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (69%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



638 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Buyer For BBC's Book Unit On Travel

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
SERRAVAL, France -- In 2007, when the British Broadcasting Corporation bought the Lonely Planet travel guidebooks, it drew criticism from rival media organizations in the private sector, which argued that a public television company had no business expanding into areas like book publishing.
On Tuesday, when the BBC confirmed plans to sell Lonely Planet to a reclusive American billionaire, it drew internal scrutiny -- this time for losing money on the sale. 
BBC Worldwide, an arm of the public broadcaster that runs many of its international and profit-making operations, said on Tuesday that it had agreed to sell the series to NC2 Media, a company controlled by Brad M. Kelley, a businessman from Kentucky who made a fortune in tobacco and later turned his attention to real estate and other interests.
The price, £51.5 million, or $77.8 million, was nearly £80 million below the £130 million that the BBC paid for Lonely Planet, in two stages.
The BBC insisted that no public money was lost because BBC Worldwide used its own money rather than the main BBC budget, derived largely from a license fee on British television-owning households, to pay for Lonely Planet. Still, because BBC Worldwide returns any profit it earns to the BBC, any shortfall affects the BBC's overall funding.
The scale of the loss on the sale of Lonely Planet prompted the BBC Trust, a panel that oversees the broadcaster, to call on the executive arm of the BBC to begin a review of the investment and report its conclusions.
''Although this did not prove to be a good commercial investment, Worldwide is a very successful business, and at the time of purchase there was a credible rationale for this deal,'' Diane Coyle, vice chairwoman of the trust, said in a statement.
At the time of the purchase, the BBC -- headed then by Mark Thompson, who is now chief executive of The New York Times Company -- talked about extending the Lonely Planet brand into new areas, including digital outlets. But publishers of traditional travel guidebooks have struggled to compete with travel sites on the Web, like TripAdvisor.
And rivals of the BBC complained that the broadcaster had no business moving into new areas at a time when some commercial media companies had struggled with the challenge of the Internet.
In 2009, James Murdoch, then the head of the European and Asian operations of News Corporation, described the BBC's purchase as a ''particularly egregious example of the expansion of the state.'' In addition to its other media holdings, News Corporation is the largest shareholder in British Sky Broadcasting, a pay-TV company that competes with the BBC.
The BBC has been scaling back since it agreed to a reduction in its public financing in 2010.
''Lonely Planet has increased its presence in digital, magazine publishing and emerging markets whilst also growing its global market share, despite difficult economic conditions,'' said Paul Dempsey, interim chief executive of BBC Worldwide, in a statement. ''However, we have also recognized that it no longer fits with our plans to put BBC brands at the heart of our business and have decided to sell the company.''
Despite the challenges facing travel publishers, the BBC said Lonely Planet was the biggest travel guidebook series in the United States, Britain and Australia, where the guides were founded in 1973 as a bible for backpackers. It said 120 million books had been published in 11 languages, and 120 million people visited its Web sites annually.
''The challenge and promise before us is to marry the world's greatest travel information and guidebook company with the limitless potential of 21st century digital technology,'' Daniel Houghton, executive director of NC2 Media, said in a statement. ''If we can do this, and I believe we can, we can build a business that, while remaining true to the things that made Lonely Planet great in the past, promises to make it even greater in the future.''
The purchase is a big expansion of Mr. Kelley's media holdings; he also has an investment in OutWild TV, a Web site that shows travel videos. Mr. Kelley is said to be one of the largest private landowners in the United States, with millions of acres of land in Texas and other states.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC BROADCASTING (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); GUIDEBOOK PUBLISHING (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (72%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (69%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%)

COMPANY: BRITISH BROADCASTING CORP (91%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); NEWS CORP (63%); BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC (58%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); BSY (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES MURDOCH (58%); MARK S THOMPSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



639 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Deal Makers Foresee a Feast of Activity, Survey Finds

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: As deal makers head to New Orleans for a merger conference at Tulane University, a survey by the Brunswick Group shows that 97 percent of them expect an increase in deals this year in North America. 

 BODY:
As deal makers prepare to head down to New Orleans for one of the biggest merger conferences of the year, many will do so with a spring in their step. 
The vast majority of bankers and lawyers surveyed by the Brunswick Group, a public relations firm, believe 2013 will mean more deals than last year. 
So strong is the optimism among those advisers that nearly all - 97 percent, to be exact - expect that to be true in North America. About 82 percent believe more mergers will be struck worldwide this year than in 2012.
 That is the highest show of confidence in the deal-making spirits in the six-year history of Brunswick's survey, and it suggests that the machers at the Corporate Law Institute, hosted by Tulane University, will be ready to hoist a hurricane glass to their good fortunes.
It was only four years ago that one speaker, Tim Ingrassia of Goldman Sachs, lamented having to write off the period between mid-2007 and 2009. Now, it appears, deal makers are salivating over busier times putting together strategic mergers and leveraged buyouts.
What is behind the higher hopes for the coming year? It is largely a function of more confident chief executives and boards, according to the survey, with improving economic conditions and the continued abundance of cheap financing the next most-cited reasons.
The availability of low-cost debt also led 69 percent of North American advisers to say that more deals would be paid for entirely with cash, the fourth year in a row for the survey.
About 89 percent of respondents based in North America think that bigger leveraged buyouts - perhaps along the lines of Dell Inc.'s $24.4 billion sale - will be on the rise in 2013. 
About 71 percent of advisers based in North America surveyed believe that the deals would be done within the continent, as opposed to transborder takeovers. Many believe that more foreign bidders for North American assets will come from Asia than anywhere else, continuing a trend.
Latin America has become more of a hotbed of activity as well, with 11 percent of those surveyed believing the region to produce the most acquisitive companies. That is nearly triple the 4 percent of respondents who believed the same thing last year.
The busiest sector is expected to be consumer goods and retail, according to 31 percent of respondents, followed by technology and energy.
For more on what deal mavens are thinking, DealBook will be on hand for all the bons temps at the Tulane conference.

        
Brazilian Billionaire Confirms Talks to Sell Stake in Energy Firm
        
Malone's Minority Report

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); DIVESTITURES (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%) Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Tulane University; Mergers & Acquisitions; Tulane Business Forum

COMPANY: DELL INC (65%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Tulane University

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (65%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (65%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) NORTH AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); LATIN AMERICA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



640 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank Cuts 2012 Profit, As Legal Costs Rise

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: Deutsche Bank set aside an additional $780 million to cover legal problems, sharply reducing its net profit for 2012 to $376 million. 

 BODY:
FRANKFURT - Deutsche Bank on Wednesday revised its 2012 profit sharply downward as it set aside more money to cover the potential cost of legal proceedings
Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest lender, set aside an additional 600 million euros ($775 million) to cover legal problems, reducing its pretax profit for 2012 by the same amount. As a result, net profit for the year was 291 million euros, about 400 million euros less than the bank reported on Jan. 31. 
Like many big European institutions, Deutsche Bank faces a raft of legal woes.
It is dealing with numerous lawsuits related to its sales of mortgages and mortgage-related derivatives in the United States before the financial crisis. Ronald Weichert, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, cited those suits as the main reason for setting aside more money for legal expenses.
The bank, based in Frankfurt, has also been ensnared by the global investigation into rate manipulation. In November, Deutsche Bank said it had set aside money for potential penalties related to the rate-rigging case. Now, it appears the bank is increasing the buffer, partially in response to a string of recent settlements involving other banks.
In February, Royal Bank of Scotland agreed to pay American and British regulators $612 million to settle claims that it manipulated the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Last year, the Swiss bank UBS agreed to a $1.5 billion settlement and Barclays agreed to pay $450 million. The banks are also likely to face civil suits from people who paid more interest than they should have because of Libor manipulation.
In total, Deutsche Bank has set aside 2.4 billion euros in 2012 to cover possible judgments and other litigation costs. The legal expenses, the bank said, would not affect the dividend of 75 euro cents a share, which was announced in January.
Deutsche Bank was one of the few large German banks to avoid taking a direct government bailout during the financial crisis, and it is the only German bank able to compete in the same league as large American and British investment banks.
But the bank continues to struggle with a daunting array of legal proceedings and official inquiries related to its behavior during the boom years. The bank's co-chief executives, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen, have cut back on bonuses and taken other steps they say will discourage excessive risk-taking and unethical or illegal behavior in the future.

        
Deutsche Bank Posts Surprise $3 Billion Loss
        
UBS Unit Is Said to Be Close to Guilty Plea in Rate-Rigging Scandal

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ETHICS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BAILOUTS (74%); SCANDALS (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (65%); EXECUTIVES (62%); GUILTY PLEAS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Deutsche Bank AG; Fitschen, Jurgen; Germany; Jain, Anshu; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Suits and Litigation; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); RBS (NYSE) (68%); RBS (LSE) (68%); RBS (AMS) (68%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%)

PERSON: Fitschen, Jurgen; Jain, Anshu

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPE (78%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



641 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 1583 words

HEADLINE: Part 3: Answers to Your Questions About Paying for College

BYLINE: LAURA PERNA


HIGHLIGHT: Laura Perna, a researcher in college finance and affordability, answers select reader questions about paying for college. Part 3. 

 BODY:
 The Choice has invited Laura Perna, an author, professor at the University of Pennsylvania and researcher in college finance and affordability, to answer your questions about paying for college in the blog's Guidance Office, a forum for college applicants and their families seeking expert advice. 
 The moderated Q. and A. session, which began on Monday, will continue throughout the week. 
 In this third installment of answers, Ms. Perna responds to questions about appealing a financial aid award, starting at a community college to save money, the actual average of student debt, and whether college is really worth its cost. 
 Some questions, and answers, below have been edited, including for length and style. - Tanya Abrams 
 Appealing a Financial Aid Award 
 Q. 
 My daughter will be attending college next year. Her older brother has left school due to poor grades. We took out a parent loan for him so we cannot afford to do anything for our daughter. We never could save much for either child's college fund as we have always just scraped by. Can we call the financial aid office at the school she would like to attend and request that they review her aid request in light of this? There is nowhere on the form to include information like this.
- Mary
 A. 
 You should certainly contact the financial aid office if your ability to pay college costs changes because of your personal or financial circumstances. Some colleges provide information on appealing a financial aid award on the financial aid office's Web site. You should also contact the financial aid office if you are having difficulty paying college costs even with your financial aid award.
After leaving college, you should contact the loan servicer if you encounter challenges repaying a student loan. For federal student loans, students may be eligible to receive a deferment or forbearance, provisions that delay or temporarily reduce monthly repayments.
 Beginning at a Community College 
 Q. 
 My son is a junior and is interested in majoring in gaming and programming. He is looking at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York and Becker College, in Worcester, Mass. We live in New York. Our annual income is $44,000. The annual tuition, room and board at each of these schools is more than our income and I can't afford parent loans. He can attend a community college to get his liberal arts classes out of the way but can he get enough financial aid to be able to attend one of these colleges? What are our options?
- Joyce
 A. 
 The published price of attendance (tuition, fees, room and board) does not necessarily reflect your out-of-pocket cost. Financial aid can reduce the price that you will actually pay at a four-year or two-year college. You can estimate the actual net price that reflects your particular financial circumstances using each college's net price calculator and determine your actual net price by completing the Fafsa.
Beginning at a community college is another approach to reducing your need to rely on savings, loans, and other sources to pay for college. Tuition and fees are typically substantially lower at community colleges. According to the College Board's 2011 Trends in College Pricing, the average published price (enrollment-weighted) for tuition and fees for in-state students was $3,131 at community colleges and $8,655 at public four-year colleges; it was $29,056 at private nonprofit four-year colleges in 2012-13.
Living at home to attend a community college may eliminate room and board costs, but may create some commuting costs. If your son begins at a community college with the goal of transferring to a four-year college to complete a bachelor's degree, be sure to learn more about the courses for which the receiving four-year college will grant credit. Transfer policies vary across states, and across colleges within the same state. Connect with the transfer office at the community college and four-year college that you are interested in attending in order to learn their specific policies.
 Student Debt Burden May Be Higher Than It Appears 
 Q. 
 I have been looking at published stats purporting to show average student debt after four years of college. The number seems to be the maximum amount that can be borrowed through Stafford and Perkins loans over four years, something in the mid- to high-$20,000s.
This is of course all poppycock. Parents are borrowing through the PLUS Loan program and children recognize that this loan is theirs to pay as well, with the parents on the hook if the child defaults.
It is apparent to me that the stats are being manipulated, or at the very least, a see-no-evil, speak-no-evil attitude has been adopted by researchers by looking strictly at who signed the note. The day the reported numbers get real is the day that the real issue of cost is addressed. Until then, is this not all window dressing with an it's-really-not-that-bad look to it all?
- Tom Schreppler 
 A. 
 As in other cases, the available data raise as many questions as they seem to answer. Information about the use of federal student loans is readily available, given the government's interest in collecting these data. But these data do not describe how the burden of paying college costs is distributed between students and their parents.
Students are responsible for repaying their parents' PLUS loan in some families, but not in others. Students and their families are also relying on other forms of borrowing to pay college costs, including private loans and credit cards. Moreover, because federal and other loans all must be repaid, counting them as "financial aid" is misleading.
A better indicator of the financial burden on students and their families is the cost of attending college less the amount of money received in the form of grants (money that does not need to be repaid). Any amount that is not covered by grants must be paid by the student and family from savings, loans or additional employment.
Students and their families should carefully consider not only the total amount that they are borrowing from all sources but also the number of hours that the student is working while also enrolled in classes. Too much borrowing and too much employment can both be problematic.
 Is College Worth the Cost? 
 Q. 
 For those of us who are full pay, is there really any college out there that is worth $60,000 dollars a year? If we're talking about 30 weeks of actual teaching - at most - it works out to $2,000 dollars a week! For that price, we could send our child on a cruise every single week for four years!
I can't help but think that if I actually paid that for three children - working out to more than $750,000 - I could probably afford to build my own university for that. When will these ridiculously overinflated prices come down?
- Felicia
 Q. 
 Yes!!! Felicia, we feel the same way. How can they really say they are worth those prices?? That goes for Penn, too. We have enough for 2 1/2 years at a $60,000 school. This is extraordinarily painful. You want the best for a kid that has worked hard, but does any of this make any rational sense? How can you tell your child that it's not worth the pain associated with debt?
- Robin
 A. 
 When considering which college is best to attend, each student and family must make their own cost-benefit calculation. Many dimensions - financial, academic, social and other characteristics - are all part of what makes one college a better fit than another.
Costs (including the need to use savings, the need to borrow, and the need to work more hours), as well as a student and family's valuing of these different costs are certainly an important part of the equation. Be sure that you have accurate and complete information about what these costs really are.
It is important to recognize the wide variation in the cost of available college options. According to the College Board's 2011 Trends in College Pricing report, about half of all full-time undergraduates attending four-year colleges are enrolled at institutions with published tuition and fees (the sticker price) below $10,282. The sticker price is considerably higher at private nonprofit colleges ($29,060 in 2012-13) than public four-year colleges ($8,660).
Moreover, these sticker prices do not take into account the financial aid that many students at these institutions receive. For full-time undergraduates in 2012-13, net tuition and fees were $2,910 at public four-year colleges and $13,380 at private, nonprofit four-year colleges.
The costs should also be weighed against the many economic and noneconomic benefits of college. Students who attend and graduate from college realize many benefits, including higher earnings, lower likelihood of unemployment, and better working conditions, and these benefits have increased over time.
Even in the Great Recession, college-educated workers fared better (on average) than those without a college education. Society also benefits by having a better-educated society, as higher levels of education are associated with a more productive work force, less reliance on social welfare programs, lower crime, and more. 
 To pose a question to Ms. Perna, please use the original post soliciting questions or the comments box below. We will accept questions through March 20. 

        
Part 2: Answers to Your Questions About Paying for College
        
Part 1: Answers to Your Questions About Paying for College
        
Seeking Your Questions on Paying for College
        
What (Not) to Ask on a Campus Tour
        
March College Checklist for Seniors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); WRITERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); FAMILY (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Financial Aid (Education); University of Pennsylvania; For Counselors; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors; Guidance Office; Paying for College

ORGANIZATION: University of Pennsylvania

GEOGRAPHIC: WORCESTER, MA, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



642 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Forgiveness Formulas

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Forms of debt forgiveness can make collection more efficient but run the risk of debtors&#8217; gaming the system, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
In an ideal world, collecting debts would be as simple as asking debtors to pay their obligations when they are able to. But in reality most businesses have found that they need to obtain other assurances, such as collateral or the option to shut off services to a delinquent payer. Otherwise it is too easy for debtors to claim hardship and walk away without paying.
On the other hand, many families and other debtors do experience genuine hardship. In those cases it can be compassionate and even efficient to at least partly forgive the debts of people who have fallen on hard times. Many economists see loan defaults as (sometimes) an efficiency-enhancing form of risk-sharing. 
Even the most hard-hearted lender may choose to partly forgive loans because too much lender effort is required to elicit full payment. Just as you cannot squeeze blood from a stone you cannot get much revenue from someone who does not have it. 
One approach would be for lenders to develop and disclose a "forgiveness formula" that would clearly define "hard times" and indicate precisely what kind of forgiveness is possible. The advantage of forgiveness formulas is that distressed borrowers can be certain where they stand with the lender and can readily evaluate whether they were treated "fairly."

Forgiveness formulas are also consistent with the idea that agreements should be clearly specified in writing, so the parties to the agreement fully understand each other and never have to argue about what the agreement really meant. Carefully specified written agreements are sometimes found in employment relationships, tenant-landlord relationships and even marriages.
This is the approach that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took during the George W. Bush administration to restructure home mortgages that had fallen under water (that is, when home prices had fallen so much that selling the home would no longer provide enough proceeds to pay the mortgage in full). Borrowers were told what new mortgage terms would be affordable and under what net-present-value conditions those terms should be considered acceptable to lenders.
The clarity of forgiveness formulas is also their weakness, because they make it easier for debtors to "game the calculation" and can ultimately make loans more costly for borrowers who pay in full. The Internal Revenue Service has long been secretive about its procedures for auditing returns and restructuring delinquent tax payments, and the Treasury maintained that approach when it became involved with restructuring home mortgages (the Congressional Oversight Panel discusses this matter on Page 41 of this report).
Hospitals are also known to partly forgive medical debts incurred by the uninsured, while they make no accommodation for many others. Some states require hospitals to explain in writing how they go about discounting charges for hardship patients (as we can see in New York's policy), but you might guess that hospitals worry that patients will game those calculations in order to pay less.
One advantage of health reforms that get more people on health insurance is that by getting people to pay for their health care before they get sick, the reforms reduce the number of cases in which clear forgiveness has to be traded off with formula gamesmanship.

        
Bankers, Too, Cast a Safety Net
        
Counting the Underwater Homeowners
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Shocked, Shocked, Over Hospital Bills
        
In Massachusetts We Trust

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WRITERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); TAX LAW (63%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (62%); HOME PRICES (61%); TAX AUTHORITIES (60%) Congressional Oversight Panel; Credit and Debt; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Mortgages; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Congressional Oversight Panel

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



643 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: India's Weakened Government May Struggle For Reform

BYLINE: SRUTHI GOTTIPATI


HIGHLIGHT: After losing a key ally over the issue of alleged war crimes in Sri Lanka, key economic reforms may falter. 

 BODY:
India's government faced accusations Wednesday that it will be incapable of bringing about much-needed reforms after the withdrawal of its biggest ally Tuesday night, a southern political party that protested the government's stance on Sri Lanka's alleged war crimes.
Critics called into question the government's future ability to pass reforms with fewer supporters in Parliament, calling it a "lame duck," ahead of national elections scheduled for 2014. 
Analysts said that the lower numbers would make reforms much harder to pass.
"Political uncertainty could also once again bring talk of early elections, threats of even slower growth and possible ratings actions," Citigroup said in a research report. 
The lame duck label, first put forward by the main opposition party, was firmly rejected by senior leaders of the Indian National Congress Party, which heads the governing alliance. "Neither is the government lame, nor is it a duck," pointedly clarified Kamal Nath, the parliamentary affairs minister, at a news conference Wednesday morning. "We're absolutely stable."
The withdrawal of 18 Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, or D.M.K., legislators this week has left the governing alliance with 235 seats in the lower house of Parliament, out of a total 540 seats. With the help of outside allies, it gets 46 more seats, which brings it to 281, just a sliver above the 271 it needs for a simple majority. But there is no guarantee those outside allies will support the coalition on every position.
The Congress leaders, saying they would continue to push for legislation and woo investors, burnished their credentials by pointing to two important bills that were passed on the same day as D.M.K. sparked an upheaval. On Tuesday, an "anti-rape" bill that sought to better protect women from sex crimes cleared the lower house of Parliament, while a gargantuan food security bill to subsidize food for the country's poor got the cabinet's nod.
The Congress Party also reiterated the alliance's ability to run a coalition government, which it has for nine years, and swiftly denounced accusations by the D.M.K. that the government was allowing a United States-backed resolution on Sri Lanka to be watered down.
That resolution, which is expected to be presented to the United Nations Human Rights Council on Thursday, calls on Sri Lanka to make good on its promises to investigate allegations of human rights violations during the country's 26-year civil war, the last months of which saw tens of thousands of Tamil civilians killed.
The D.M.K. did not relent Wednesday on its demands, which include adopting a resolution in Parliament that explicitly describes Sri Lanka's treatment of its Tamils as "genocide" and pushing this position with amendments to a United Nations resolution. It also wants an independent international body to look into what it describes as war crimes by the Sri Lankan government.
The United Progressive Alliance, or U.P.A, an unwieldy coalition supported by political parties with varied ideologies and mandates, struggled Wednesday to reach a consensus on a resolution on Sri Lanka in Parliament, where it also faces a belligerent opposition.
Political analysts said that the Congress Party, unlikely to reach a consensus on the resolution, may be inclined to accept the loss of D.M.K.'s 18 legislators and trudge to national elections scheduled in May next year without them.
However, the central government said that it has formulated amendments to the draft resolution to be presented to the United Nations human rights panel.
"India's position has always been - and remains - that the U.N.H.R.C. should adopt a strong resolution that would send a resolute message to Sri Lanka and goad Sri Lanka to accept an independent and credible investigation," the government noted in a statement.
Some political analysts said that Muthuvel Karunanidhi, D.M.K.'s party chief, decided to withdraw from the government with a shrewd eye on the national elections, by reiterating his support for a cause also dear to his competitor in Tamil Nadu, the state's chief minister, Jayalalithaa Jayaram.
The D.M.K., which is in the opposition in the state of Tamil Nadu, wants to agitate on an emotional pressure point - the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils - to ensure they scoop up some of Tamil Nadu's 39 lower house seats in Parliament next year, journalist T.S. Sudhir wrote in Tehelka. Emboldened by student protests in his state and striving "to emerge as the champion of the Tamil cause", Mr. Karunanidhi hopes his moves will have a political payoff, Mr. Sudhir writes.
Whether they actually do in Tamil Nadu, where local issues still hold sway, is yet to be seen, he noted.
Others point out that Tamil Nadu's push for a strong resolution is unlikely to bring about any change in Sri Lanka.
"Indeed, all this only makes it easier for the Sri Lankan government to dismiss any Indian effort to make it do the right thing as inspired by the 'Tamil Nadu factor,' " and therefore, not take it seriously," writes journalist and author Nirupama Subramanian in an op-ed in the Hindu newspaper. "Even Sri Lankan Tamils are not convinced that Dravidian political parties take up their cause for anything other than their own political gains."

        
Allegations of War Crimes in Sri Lanka Shake Indian Government
        
Tamil Nadu Students Protest Alleged Human Rights Abuses in Sri Lanka
        
Doing the U.P.A. Shuffle
        
Relations Between India and Sri Lanka Sour
        
State Elections 2012: What They Said

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); WAR CRIMES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); GENOCIDE (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (84%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POLITICS (77%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); FOOD SECURITY (67%); ETHNICITY (59%) Elections; Indian National Congress; Legislatures and Parliaments; Nath, Kamal; Sri Lanka; Tamil Nadu (India); Tamils (Ethnic Group); War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Indian National Congress

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: Nath, Kamal

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMIL NADU, INDIA (94%) SRI LANKA (96%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Sri Lanka; Tamil Nadu (India)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



644 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Happy International Happiness Day

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: The United Nations is marking March 20 as a day on which to highlight the links between happiness and world development. Does that make you happy, or do you think the U.N. has better things to do? 

 BODY:
LONDON - If you want to avoid the risk of being accosted by total strangers urging you to "be happy," you should probably stay home on Wednesday.
The United Nations has declared March 20 the first International Day of Happiness to underline the commitment of its 193 member states to "better capture the importance of the pursuit of happiness and well-being in development with a view to guiding their public policies."
Wednesday is the 1st-ever International Day of Happiness - the pursuit of happiness is a fundamental human goal http://t.co/L9fzAbXQYH 
- UN in Brussels (@UNinBrussels)20 Mar 13
According to the Positive News Web site, based in Britain, a raft of events and activities will take place to mark the day.
"There is the Happy Lunch event in Brussels, for example, or the thought-provoking Economics of Happiness conference in Australia," it reported.
"Those in Washington D.C. can expect a flood of happiness when the free hugs flash mob takes over, and passers-by at London's Liverpool Street train station will be inspired by groups of people holding up boards and banners with positive messages written on them."
You have been warned.
The initiative for Happiness Day came from the Kingdom of Bhutan, the small landlocked Himalayan state, which adopted a Gross National Happiness Index as a better measure of its people's prosperity than its income.
Ban Ki-moon, the U.N. Secretary-General, marked the day by calling for a reinforced commitment to inclusive and sustainable human development. 
"When we contribute to the common good, we ourselves are enriched," he said. "Compassion promotes happiness and will help build the future we want."
No one would deny the positive benefits of happiness, a state of mind that Americans have been pursuing as an inalienable right since the Declaration of Independence.
The Action for Happiness organization in Britain urges people to count their blessings. "People who are grateful tend to be happier, healthier and more fulfilled," it says. "Being grateful can help people cope with stress and can even have a beneficial effect on heart rate." 
Academic studies of happiness have proliferated in recent years, with interest spawning a range of international indexes ranking the well-being of nations. 
A WIN-Gallup International poll of global hope and happiness revealed in December that gloom was subsiding worldwide amid optimism about economic recovery, although the "gloomy trend" in Western Europe still faced challenges.
The finding appeared to acknowledge a link between happiness and economic prosperity, although the poll also found that "a large number of people refuse to be gloomy despite their poor view on economic prospects for their nation."
Governments have a natural tendency to trumpet their high rankings in such polls as a way of claiming credit for their citizens' happiness.
A 2004 paper by researchers at Austria's University of Graz nevertheless cautioned that, "many studies have shown that happiness varies substantially between nations and that these differences are relatively stable over time."
There was some skepticism about whether the United Nations, which deals daily with the misery created by war and famine, and which, at the level of the Security Council, appears unable to resolve crises in Syria and elsewhere, really needed a Happiness Day.
Le Monde grumpily noted that around 120 days were already set aside in the U.N. calendar to celebrate themes as diverse as jazz, migratory birds and rural women.
"This is either a way of trivializing happiness," it wrote, "or of suggesting that one day's happiness a year is enough!"
 Has the U.N. got better things to do than try to cheer us all up? And should governments take credit or blame for our changing moods? Tell us what you think. Meanwhile, have a good day! 

        
How Was Your Doomsday?
        
Prime Minister's Ousting Complicates Strategy to Curb Mali's Islamists
        
Europe Divided Ahead of U.N. Palestinian Vote
        
Options Limited as Syria Conflict Spreads
        
Netanyahu's Bomb Explodes on the Internet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); STREET ART (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Bhutan; Happiness; polls; United Nations; Polls and Public Opinion; Featured; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: United Nations

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (71%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) BHUTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); BELGIUM (90%); AUSTRALIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) Bhutan

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



645 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: A New Purpose for an Old Telephone Building, but Its Dull Face Remains

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: Plans to turn 375 Pearl Street in Lower Manhattan into a glass-skinned office tower collapsed in the five years since they were announced, and now the building is becoming a commercial data center, its limestone exterior intact. 

 BODY:
When City Room last visited the bulky old telephone switching station at 375 Pearl Street in Lower Manhattan, it was poised to emerge - like a chrysalis - from its limestone shell and turn into a sleek glass-skinned office tower, putting at risk its standing as one of the uglier skyscrapers in New York. 
That was early 2008, before the bottom fell out of the economy, the developers at Taconic Investment Partners lost control of the building and the M&T Bank sold it for $119 million to a group headed by the Sabey Corporation of Seattle.
Sabey is turning the 32-story structure into a commercial data center where tenants can house their servers with what Sabey says will be uninterrupted power, cooling and security. The first phase, now nearing completion, has the capacity to handle 5.4 megawatts of electrical demand, Tom Beckwith, a senior vice president at Sabey, said. Prospective tenants are typically in the market for 100 kilowatts to 2 megawatts of power. Six tenants have signed on, he said. The building could accommodate a total demand of up to 40 megawatts.
Construction is far enough along at the center, called Intergate Manhattan, to have warranted a visit by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, on Wednesday morning.
Verizon still uses three floors of the structure, which was built in 1975 by its corporate predecessor, the New York Telephone Company. It owns these floors outright as a condominium unit. Sabey owns the other 29 floors. Verizon pays rent to Sabey (Mr. Beckwith would not say how much) for the illuminated sign on the building's east facade, which is highly visible from the Brooklyn Bridge.
Tenants in the data center are charged on the basis of energy demand rather than square footage. "They're paying for capacity," John Sasser, vice president for operations, said. "The space comes with it." Leases typically run for 10 years.
Sabey acquired the building in June 2011. Though it was not flooded during Hurricane Sandy, Mr. Beckwith said, the company decided to install critical backup generators on the fourth floor, 69 feet above street level, rather than on the second floor, 23 feet above the street.
Though Sabey typically operates expansive, low-rise buildings, it found that 375 Pearl Street came with many built-in advantages, John Ford, the vice president for leasing, said. These included floors that were designed for much heavier loads than would be found in a typical office building and ample space at the north and south ends of the tower for vertical conduits and ductwork. As far as security goes, it does not hurt to have Police Department headquarters next door.
Today, there is little to record Taconic's plan except the remnants of its marketing center on the 26th floor. There, a mock-up corner office was constructed with a glass wall facing a curved photo mural - almost like a cyclorama - depicting the Lower Manhattan skyline. It was meant to show how beautiful 375 Pearl Street would be with a new, transparent skin.
But the existing monolithic and inscrutable limestone facade suits the new owners just fine, Mr. Beckwith said. "We think it's beautiful, as a data center."

        
The View of New York Under an Umbrella
        
A Deal on Chicken Sandwiches
        
Wallets Disappear, Followed by Cash via A.T.M.'s
        
Storm Damage Prompts Return of Old Subway Stop
        
More People Commute to Manhattan Than Any Other County

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ENERGY DEMAND (88%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (70%); HURRICANES (61%); TROPICAL STORMS (61%); HURRICANE SANDY (61%) Data Centers; Manhattan (NYC); Real Estate (Commercial); Sabey Corp; Taconic Investment Partners; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks; Land Use and Planning; Manhattan

COMPANY: VERIZON NEW YORK INC (67%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Sabey Corp; Taconic Investment Partners

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



646 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Goal)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: SPORTS; soccer

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Hugo Chávez's Unlikely Soccer Legacy

BYLINE: STEFAN BIENKOWSKI


HIGHLIGHT: Hugo Ch&#225;vez, the leader of Venezuela who died recently, played a big role in elevating the quality of soccer in Venezuela. 

 BODY:
In death, Hugo Chávez may conjure more debate and split more opinions than he ever did in life. Whether the former Venezuelan leader is remembered as a man of the people who brought millions out of extreme poverty or castigated as a deranged autocrat who drove his country in to debt and hyperinflation, the true measure of his time as a president will lie in the legacy and future he has left for Venezuela. 
But aside from socialist ideals or divided notions of public or privately run institutions, one aspect of Venezuelan society has undisputedly flourished amid the care and attention it has received over the past era of Chávez's reign: fútbol. 
During a time when Venezuela's inflation spiked, its crime crept to a high and its budget deficit swelled to an unsustainable levels, the country's domestic soccer game undertook something of its own revolution as the world finally welcomed Venezuela to the beautiful game. 
Although soccer can track its roots in Venezuela as far back as the middle of the 19th century, through British rubber and mining companies' exporting the colonial game to its shores, it was the introduction of baseball at the turn of the century - again through a foreign workforce in the form of oil workers from the United States - that would go on to define the sporting agenda of the country for the duration of the 20th century. 
While South America was driving a revolutionary stake through the heart of world soccer with the first mixed-race Uruguayan Olympic and World Cup-winning teams of the 1930s and '40s and the introduction of Brazilian samba at the 1950 World Cup, Venezuela was captivated by the American way of sport, winning baseball's version of the World Cup on three occasions between 1940 and 1950. 
Yet the country that once proudly nicknamed itself El Pais de Béisbol (the country of baseball) would one day fall in love with soccer. Twenty-five years after its first baseball World Cup victory, Venezuela plunged in to its first competitive international soccer match when it entered the qualification round for the 1966 World Cup. Losing each of the four games against Chile and Peru, Venezuela soon got used to bitter failure. It went the next 30 years with no more than two competitive wins, earning the contemptuous nickname Cenicienta (Cinderella). 
Theirs was a cursed path with few highs and all too many lows as they became the only South American country to never qualify for a World Cup. This rut dragged on until 1998, with the domestic league on its knees, and the national team ranked 129th in the world - the lowest it had ever been. Then a bright, young president preaching the tones of social revolution was elected. 
The change was almost immediate. As Chávez would go on to define his tenure by pushing Venezuela to the forefront of international debate, the national team began making headlines, picking up its first away win, against Ecuador, later in the year. Richard Páez - the country's most successful international manager to date - was soon hired, and he went on transform the team from underachieving extras to exciting underdogs.
The defining moment for Venezuelan soccer came in 2007, when the country hosted the Copa América for the first time, helped by a $186 million investment from Chávez's government and a number of private companies. As well as upgrading the public transpotartion system and communication industry, Chávez built three new stadiums and upgraded another six across the country, ensuring that Venezuela's tournament was the first of its kind to take place in so many cities across the host country. 
Such investment led to inevitable growth within the country's domestic leagues; the top division was increased to 18 teams from 10 to complement the new quality and popularity of the sport. But the payoff was best exemplified through the national team's performance during the tournament, where it advanced out of the first round for the first time, but progressed to the quarterfinals with a squad made up primarily of players playing within the country's domestic league. 
Páez has since moved on, but Venezuelan soccer still continues from strength to strength. The signs of progress are perhaps most noticeable not in the direct quality of the domestic league, but the pedigree of the players it produces, and the sheer number that has gone on to ply its trade in Europe's top leagues. From Salomón Rondón in the far reaches of Rubin Kazan in central Russia to Hamburg's Thomas Rincon to Luis Manuel Seijas of Standard Liege in Belgium, Venezuela now claims a generation of young players. 
Since Chávez's inauguration in 1998, Venezuela has moved from 129th in the FIFA World rankings to 45th. It is currently fourth in South American qualifying for the 2014 World Cup in Brazil.
 Follow Stefan Bienkowski on Twitter. 

        
Venezuela's 'Tropical Mourinho'
        
U.S. Soccer: Klinsmann's Choices, Summer Friendlies, Women's Injuries
        
In Ecuador, a Thriving Game and Prospects Galore
        
Donovan Will Rejoin Galaxy in March
        
ESPN Gets Mexico Games, and U.S. Fans Get a Bonus

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (88%); SPORTS (88%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (71%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); LABOR FORCE (66%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); MINES & MINING (52%) Chavez, Hugo; Soccer; Venezuela; World Cup 2014 (Soccer)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (93%) Chavez, Hugo

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); PERU (79%); URUGUAY (79%); CHILE (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Venezuela

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



647 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: From Morgan Stanley, Investing in Women on Corporate Boards

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Morgan Stanley&#8217;s wealth management division is starting a new portfolio that seeks to invest in companies that have demonstrated a commitment to including women on their boards. 

 BODY:
The lack of women on corporate boards has been a hot topic in financial circles recently, especially after a debate in Europe last year over imposing quotas.
Now, Wall Street is offering a free-market approach to the issue. 
Morgan Stanley's wealth management division is starting a new portfolio which seeks to invest in companies that have demonstrated a commitment to including women on their corporate boards. The strategy, known as the parity portfolio, is scheduled to get going on April 1.
In a report last summer, Credit Suisse's research institute found that over a six-year period, companies with "at least some" women on their boards did better, in terms of share price, than those with none.
"It just seemed to make sense, given I'm a feminist and an investment adviser," said Eve Ellis, a financial adviser with the Matterhorn Group at Morgan Stanley Wealth Management, who is running the strategy with her colleague Nikolay Djibankov. "I'm frustrated by the fact that there are so few women on boards."
The strategy seeks to encourage companies to think deeply about the gender makeup of their boards. Only companies with at least three women board members will be included in the portfolio. The strategy, being marketed to individuals and institutions, requires a minimum investment of $250,000.
The portfolio is avoiding tobacco, firearms and oil companies, and it is overweighted in consumer discretionary and health care companies, according to Ms. Ellis. All of the companies in the portfolio are based in the United States.
In addition to the Credit Suisse report, Ms. Ellis cited research from McKinsey & Company and the nonprofit organization Catalyst to support the investment thesis.
A proposal in Europe to require companies to have 40 percent of their board members be women generated considerable controversy last year. After the plan was revised, the European Commission approved a proposal in November aimed at making the requirement a law.
Still, research on the matter is not conclusive, Steven M. Davidoff, DealBook's Deal Professor, wrote in September.
"That men and women are different may be true," Mr. Davidoff wrote, "but this still doesn't mean that the more women there are, the better the company's profits."

        
Corporate Boards Should Add Diversity to the Mix
        
A Summer Roundup: Goldman, Playboy and More

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WEALTH MANAGEMENT (91%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); WOMEN (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (64%) Boards of Directors; Morgan Stanley; Women and Girls; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (86%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (65%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (91%); CS (NYSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (86%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (86%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (86%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



648 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2104 words

HEADLINE: How Viable Is Rand Paul for 2016?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Rand Paul has had a very good 2013, and he has been fairly explicit about his potential interest in running for president. Yet, oddsmakers continue to view him as a long shot. 

 BODY:
Perhaps no Republican has had a better 2013 than Rand Paul, the Kentucky senator who drew attention and praise for his talking filibuster against the C.I.A. director nominee John Brennan, then last week won the straw poll at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington. Then, on Tuesday, as my colleague Ashley Parker reports, Mr. Paul gave a speech to the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, outlining his plan for immigration reform.
Mr. Paul has been fairly explicit about his potential interest in running for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, so it is safe to assume that at least some of his actions are colored by his interest in positioning himself for the primaries and caucuses. But oddsmakers continue to list Mr. Paul as something of a long shot, giving him anywhere from 12-to-1 to 28-to-1 odds against winning the nomination.
Is Mr. Paul, in fact, a viable 2016 contender? Or, like his father, Ron Paul, is he someone who might expect to win the enthusiastic support of libertarian-leaning G.O.P. voters but who might otherwise fall well short of winning a plurality or majority of the Republican electorate? 
It might help to step back and consider the Republican primary electorate as a whole. The historical norm has been that Republicans are more unified in picking a candidate, while Democratic nominees must struggle to cobble together a winning plurality from among the party's diverse constituencies. However, it is less clear that this is true today. Republicans might not have as much diversity along racial or demographic lines as Democrats do, but there are several ideological constituencies within the party that could make it hard for any candidate to win the nomination by consensus.
The way that I've come to think of these Republican voting groups is illustrated in the diagram below, which resembles a series of interlocking "Olympic" rings. The idea is that there are five major constituencies within the party, which overlap to varying degrees.
One group consists of religious conservatives, a set of voters that once had tremendous influence in picking the Republican nominee but which have been played a more marginal role in the last two election cycles. (In 2008, Mike Huckabee had trouble drawing support beyond this group, as did Rick Santorum in 2012.) It remains plausible that the G.O.P. nominee in 2016 could rely on religious conservatives as a major base of support in the primaries while also appealing to other groups within the party - a model that worked successfully for George W. Bush in 2000. But if Republicans seek to de-emphasize social issues, seeing them as a potential liability in the general election, these voters could become more estranged from the rest of the party. A Republican nominee could probably not afford for these religious voters to take an openly hostile attitude toward him, but he might hope to appease them rather than expecting their enthusiastic support.
The next constituency consists of Tea Party conservatives - a group that is much talked about, but hard to define. There are some significant demographic and attitudinal overlaps between the Tea Party and the religious right: in fact, one reason the religious right may have become less influential in the Republican Party is because some of those voters have been captured by the Tea Party movement instead. At the same time, the Tea Party has placed much more emphasis on economic policy than on social issues.
The Tea Party also has a complicated relationship with the Republican establishment. On the one hand, it may have developed in part as a response to the perceived failings of Republicans in Washington, and it has produced frequent confrontations with the Republican establishment over nominations in races for Congress and for state's governors. Rand Paul, who beat out the establishment candidate in his Republican senate primary in Kentucky with Tea Party backing, has been a hero of the Tea Party movement and even delivered their response to President Obama's State of the Union address this year. On the other hand, some candidates like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who once had the blessing of the Tea Party, have now become members in good standing of the Republican establishment. Candidates who might seek the nomination with support from the Tea Party wing of the G.O.P. need to toe a fine line between invoking its populist spirit and avoiding being seen as threatening to other coalitions within the party or to its chances of winning a November election.
Next are libertarian conservatives - the group that Mr. Paul may be most identified with. It has become fashionable to apply the term "libertarian" to almost any group that takes a more conservative attitude toward fiscal policy than toward social policy and generally takes a non-interventionist view of foreign policy. In practice, there aren't all that many voters (and there are even fewer politicians) who take truly liberal stances toward social policy while at the same time holding strongly conservative positions on economics - and, in fact, Mr. Paul holds quite conservative stances on some social issues, like abortion. But there are a substantial number of voters who take very conservative stances on economic policy while holding moderate ones on social policy; these voters tend to identify as Republicans. There are also voters who hold very liberal views on cultural issues but who have centrist positions on economic policy. These voters may have once have identified as "Rockefeller Republicans, but are now more likely to align themselves with independents or Democrats and are unlikely to vote in large numbers in the Republican primaries. 
In contrast to the libertarian conservatives, moderate or reform-minded Republicans take some explicitly centrist positions on both economic and social policy. This constituency has been diminishing as the Republican party grows more conservative. Still, there are some moderate Republicans out there, and they have not entirely been subsumed by the libertarian wing of the party; in the 2012 Ohio Republican primary, for example, about 30 percent of voters identified as moderate or liberal but did not vote for Ron Paul, while roughly 25 percent did so in Florida.
As is the case for candidates from the other constituencies, those in the G.O.P.'s moderate wing must avoid alienating the rest of the party. John McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012 were able accomplish this: Mr. Romney by simply abandoning many of the moderate positions he had once held in Massachusetts, and Mr. McCain by branding himself as a patriotic "maverick" at a time of national emergency. But other candidates, like Rudolph W. Giuliani in 2008 and Jon M. Huntsman Jr. in 2012, were unable to expand their support beyond the most left-leaning G.O.P. voters and their campaigns ended quickly as a result. (I would argue that Chris Christie is on the Giuliani-Huntsman trajectory while other candidates like Jeb Bush, the onetime Florida governor, might have more success in appealing to both moderate and conservative Republicans in 2016.)
Last but not least are the establishment Republicans. The establishment label has become much maligned at a time when the G.O.P. party brand is unpopular, but this remains a highly desirable position for someone seeking the Republican nomination.
What defines an "establishment" Republican? As with the other categories, this gets tricky. A literal definition might be someone who exerts power or authority as a member of the Republican "team" - as opposed to an outside activist or agitator who is seeking to rebuild the party from its foundations. A more pragmatic definition might be someone who is viewed as reliably conservative without being dangerous or extreme: the "sweet spot" of the most conservative electable candidate.
Candidates from the establishment wing of the party are natural coalition builders, seeking to satisfy (or at least pacify) the other Republican constituencies. As such, they have an advantage in the nomination process, which is inherently a coalition-building exercise. In addition, these candidates potentially have the resources of the party establishment at their disposal, including access to cash, staff talent and endorsements from key party officials. The political science literature presents good evidence that these factors often precede and predict popular support. They also equip a candidate to survive a prolonged nomination process that might drain the resources of other candidates.
What are the disadvantages to running as an establishment candidate? This positioning does not absolve a candidate of requiring some political dexterity; if he is too clumsy in balancing the party's various coalitions off against one another, he may come to be seen as unprincipled. Moreover, because it is generally desirable to run as the establishment candidate, the space is likely to be crowded and competitive; a candidate can run the risk of being everyone's second choice and failing to gather any momentum as a result, a fate that befell Gov. Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota in 2011.
As the nomination process evolves, the candidates will hope to expand beyond their natural base of support into the neighboring constituencies. As I mentioned, for example, Jeb Bush might seek to win the support of both establishment Republicans and the party's moderate wing - or Mr. Rubio might hope to win the support of the establishment Republicans and the Tea Party. Other coalitions - those that do not overlap on the diagram - are unlikely to make for natural pairings. For instance, it is hard to conceive of a candidate who would simultaneously be the ideal choice for both moderate Republicans and the religious right.
A candidate becomes a cinch to win the nomination if he wins the support of three of the five coalitions, a majority. However, two of the five may also suffice if no other candidate can build support outside his group. In 2012, for example, Mr. Romney often lacked the support of the religious right (who preferred Mr. Santorum), libertarians (who preferred Ron Paul) and Tea Party Republicans (who flirted with various alternatives). But he cleared the field of moderate candidates, and of other candidates who were acceptable to the G.O.P. establishment, and won the nomination as a result.
As for Rand Paul, he begins with one significant advantage: he is unlikely to be challenged for the loyalty of G.O.P.'s libertarian wing. This is not to say that there is nothing a libertarian might find fault with in Mr. Paul; his position on same-sex marriage, for instance, is unlikely to be deemed acceptable by left-leaning libertarians. But the types of libertarians who vote in the Republican primary are a more conservative group and are unlikely to find any better alternatives, particularly given that most politicians in both parties behave as though social issues, economic issues and foreign affairs all exist within a single ideological dimension.
What we may be witnessing, then, is an effort for Mr. Paul to expand his support into some of the other Republican constituencies. His recent call for immigration reform, for instance, while compatible with his libertarian principles, could also appeal to voters from the G.O.P.'s moderate wing. In contrast, it might be less helpful with the Tea Party voters, whose support he will hope to win. 
Unlike some "insurgent" candidates of the past, Mr. Paul seems interested in participating in the "invisible primary," a process that is traditionally associated with establishment candidates. He will be the headline speaker at May's Lincoln Dinner hosted by the Republican Party of Iowa, for example, just the sort of thing that might help him to win some key endorsements there three years from now.
Mr. Paul is also sure to get his share of push-back from establishment Republicans; Mr. McCain, for example, criticized his recent filibuster.
But Mr. Paul at least seems to demonstrate the interest in expanding his support beyond libertarian conservatives, something his father rarely did, and he will have three years to experiment with how to find the right formula. That doesn't make him as likely a nominee as a more traditional candidate like Mr. Rubio, Jeb Bush or Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. But his odds look better than the 20-to-1 numbers that some bookmakers have placed against him.

        
Conservatives' Love Affair With Christie Is Over
        
New Rove Group Could Backfire on G.O.P.
        
Boehner's Three-Legged Stool of Doom
        
Is It Too Early for 2016 Polls?
        
Marco Rubio: The Electable Conservative?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); RELIGION (87%); CAUCUSES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (71%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (71%); IMMIGRATION (56%) 2016; Conservatives; libertarians; primaries; Rand Paul; religious right; Republicans; Tea Party; Politics

PERSON: RAND PAUL (91%); RON PAUL (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



649 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Ask Themselves What Went Wrong

BYLINE: DAVID BROOKS and GAIL COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: Brooks and Collins on the R.N.C.&#8217;s candid report, the philosophy of Ted Cruz and the emergence of Rand Paul. 

 BODY:
Gail Collins: David, I recall that during the presidential primaries, you worried that the Republicans would nominate Mitt Romney, that Romney would lose and then the Tea Party would beat its chest and say that the only road to victory was through the far right. Last weekend, Senator Ted Cruz told a convention of conservatives: "We're winning!" It made me think about what a good predictor you are.
David Brooks: I had a feeling you were going to say that. I also have a feeling that I am going to spend the rest of this conversation making the case for a Hamiltonian/Burkean moderate conservatism that will be appreciated by moderates and even liberals but ignored by the masters of the G.O.P. This is the sort of clairvoyance for which I am justly famous.
Gail: I love it when you go all Hamiltonian/Burkean. And when it comes to excellent predictions, I also remember that after the election you had a distinct lack of enthusiasm for the newly elected Senator Ted Cruz. Kudos. 
David: That came from Republican friends in Texas who were less than thrilled with the man. You may have heard me mention that I'm teaching a course on humility this term. Last week we did Augustine. This week, Samuel Johnson and Montaigne. Later in the term, Dorothy Day. Let's put it this way: in the future, Ted Cruz is unlikely to feature on our syllabus.
I don't think there is another senator who generates as much eye-rolling among his colleagues.
That said, I love the way he keeps saying we need to look at problems through a "Rawlsian lens." I have no idea what he means, but I like to hear him say it. I myself like to catch problems with a Rawlings glove, but on these matters honest men can disagree.
Gail: Is that about John Rawls, the political philosopher? You would be surprised how much he comes up in Texas politics. I could tell you stories.
But about the other Republicans: While the right wing was having its convention and cheering Sarah Palin drinking a Big Gulp, the Republican National Committee was finishing a long report on what went wrong in the last election. Am I being unfair in saying the conclusion was to tweak communications and hire a whole bunch of new R.N.C. employees?
David: I do think you are being unfair. The idea was to hire a whole bunch of new R.N.C. employees to do useful things. In the first place, the R.N.C. now wants to move its convention to June or July. This would be great, especially for those of us who were in Tampa last August. Especially for those of us who wouldn't mind taking a summer vacation in election years.
Gail: I'm dubious. Every time they reorganize the election calendar, it winds up making the presidential campaigns longer. I don't want to spend all of 2015 in Iowa.
But go on.
David: The report also wants to limit the number of debates, which is necessary, and even maybe have regional primaries, to bring in a wider electorate early on. Overall, I was surprised by how daring the report was. I don't agree with everything. For example, the report embraces the donor class version of what's wrong with the G.O.P. - that it's too heavy on the social issues, needs better messaging on economic ones. That's wrong. The party needs new economic policies and a better way to describe how social breakdown is an economic issue.
Still, for an official report, I thought it was bold and brave. It was good enough to make me look forward to the R.N.C. post-mortem in 2017, but not so good as to forestall the necessity of one.
Gail: Like virtually all big political losers, the Republicans seem to think their problem is messaging. But I say it's the basic message. Take Hispanic voters. They favor Democrats because they like the party's programs, from health care reform to government spending on education. It's not because the Republicans don't have a big enough Office of Hispanic Outreach.
David: I interviewed a bunch of Republicans on Monday, including party leaders and a prospective presidential candidate and I asked what the party was offering a 28-year-old waitress with 3 kids making 25K a year. The only answer I got was school choice. That's not enough. The party needs a much more aggressive mobility agenda. So I guess I'm agreeing with you.
Gail: Let's go over the current crop of Republican candidates. Rand Paul's appeal seems very much like his dad's. He attracts the libertarian crowd, including a healthy chunk of young voters. But I can't imagine his isolationist message going very far with the party rank-and-file. And you'll remember during the campaign, he had a lot of trouble expressing any support for the part of the civil rights movement that involved forcing restaurants to serve black customers. This is not a guy who is going to be president.
David: I wouldn't rate him so lightly. He's less nutty than his dad. He's bold. He's good at framing a message. Some large part of the party is moving in a libertarian direction, even on defense and criminal sentencing issues. I don't think he'll ever be nominated, but I bet he emerges as a future pillar of the party.
Gail: What about Jeb Bush? I have to admit I have never devoted more than 30 seconds to thinking about him. Although there was that one moment in the 2000 primaries when I saw him onstage with his brother George, looking the way Jimmy Carter would have looked if his brother, Billy, was getting the presidential nomination instead of him.
But since he's surfaced this year, I've been deeply underwhelmed. He's sort of - blah. And how can you write a book on immigration, just in time for the big Congressional debate, and change your central position as soon as it hits the stands? He's for a pathway to citizenship, he's against it, he's for it. I know these guys don't actually write their political tomes, but still.
David: He's one of the people I interviewed on Monday. I think he's one of the more sensible voices in the party. He has a genuine connection with a wide variety of Americans. He's authentically kind and compassionate. He's normal. That said, I've never sensed the fire to run for president. I somehow don't think he will, though that is only based on guesswork.
I wouldn't say he changed his position on immigration, by the way, though his locutions were confused. He's still championing a comprehensive approach even in places where that is not necessarily welcome.
Gail: Paul Ryan used to be one of those people I felt just a tad guilty about making fun of, since he did seem to be serious about offering the public a budget plan. But the plan was totally, thoroughly rejected last November and now here he is with - the exact same plan! On this one, I feel retroactively vindicated.
David: Yes, I remember when liberals decided to reject liberalism with the defeat of Michael Dukakis, on the grounds that it was rejected by the voters. Perseverance is a great virtue. I'm most curious to see if Ryan can emerge as a budget deal-maker this year. As someone who can agree on minor deals and hit some singles.
Gail: And finally, what about Marco Rubio? The Republican plan for winning over Hispanic voters seems to involve putting him on the national ticket, but Rubio doesn't actually poll that well among Hispanics outside the Cuban-American community. And frankly, he doesn't seem that deep. When he said the question of whether the earth was literally created in seven days was "one of the great mysteries" I didn't think he was dodging. I thought that represented the complete extent of his contemplation of the issue of evolution.
David: So far he's the favorite, I'd say. I'm for any politician who can at least acknowledge the mysteries of the universe.
Gail: I'm sorry, David, I don't see any great new leaders on your side. Although if Hillary Clinton decides not to run in 2016, you can feel free to remind me that I only complained about the shortage of potential presidential prospects on one side.
David: I'm shocked that you overlooked Tom Cotton, freshman Rep from Arkansas and future Mount Rushmore candidate. You heard it here first. Not that the Republican cognoscenti is putting any pressure on the young man or anything.
Don't worry. Hillary will run. The next R.N.C. post-mortem will be awesome.

        
How Much Does Race Still Matter?
        
On Second Thoughts
        
The Persistence of Racial Resentment
        
Political Intelligence
        
Spring Sequester

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (68%) Cotton, Tom; Cruz, Ted; Palin, Sarah; Paul, Rand; Presidential Election of 2012; Presidential Election of 2016; Republican National Committee; Republican Party; The Conversation

ORGANIZATION: Republican National Committee; Republican Party

PERSON: TED CRUZ (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); SARAH PALIN (78%); SAM JOHNSON (58%); RAND PAUL (58%) Cotton, Tom; Cruz, Ted; Palin, Sarah; Paul, Rand

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (50%) FLORIDA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



650 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: With Freddie Mac Suit, Banks Face Billions More in Libor Claims

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Unlike other plaintiffs, Freddie Mac looks to have a strong case because it dealt directly with many of the banks accused of manipulating the London interbank offered rate. 

 BODY:
The fallout from the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, has already cost banks $2.5 billion in penalties, not to mention loss of reputation. 
But that sum pales in comparison to payouts that will come from private lawsuits. Any finding of liability could be compounded because of the potential for any award to be tripled under the antitrust laws.
The latest salvo comes from the mortgage finance company Freddie Mac, which has filed a lawsuit in the Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va. It asserts that the company was harmed by collusive activity among the banks that lowered the benchmark interest rate. And where Freddie Mac goes, Fannie Mae, its larger sibling, usually follows, so we can expect it to file a suit seeking damages from Libor manipulation. 
Lawsuits by Freddie and Fannie would not come as a shock to anyone. A memorandum released by the inspector general of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the overseer of the two mortgage-finance giants, recommend pursuing claims against the banks for what it estimated to be more than $3 billion in damages from the Libor manipulation.
The three regulatory settlements to date - with Barclays, UBS and the Royal Bank of Scotland - provide much of the evidence Freddie Mac relies on in its complaint. Among the documents now public is a litany of e-mails demonstrating just how the banks worked to lower their Libor submissions to benefit their trading positions and make themselves appear stronger during the height of the financial crisis.
Normally, one would not expect that collusion would result in lower, rather than higher, prices. But in the world of finance, lower interest rates can be just as lucrative as higher ones, because it is all a matter of which side of the transactions one is on.
In its complaint, Freddie Mac points out two ways that the artificially lower rates cost it money. First, the company hedged is mortgage positions by buying swaps on the fixed-rate mortgages it held so that it received floating-rate payments. When Libor was pushed down by the banks, Freddie Mac received lower payments from the swaps.
The company also bought the swaps from a number of banks that participated in setting Libor. That has led the firm to include claims for breach of contract, as Freddie asserts that any manipulation violated the terms of the agreements to receive payments.
In addition, Freddie Mac held a large portfolio of mortgage-backed securities with floating interest rates. The lower the rate, the less it received in interest. Homeowners may have benefited from the manipulation in Libor by paying less interest on their mortgages, but Freddie Mac received less income on these financial instruments.
Banks involved with the scandal also face legal action from other plaintiffs. A raft of class-action lawsuits have been filed by a number of parties, including states and local governments that issued bonds and bought interest rate swaps. The cases have been consolidated in the Federal District Court in Manhattan for pretrial proceedings. 
The banks have sought to dismiss the claims, arguing that the various plaintiffs cannot show that they were directly harmed by any antitrust violation, if one even occurred. In a brief filed in the case, the banks assert that if merely having economic exposure to the dollar-based Libor, or USD Libor, is enough to be part of suit, then "there is no limit to potential plaintiffs, because anyone, with respect to any transaction, might choose to reference USD Libor."
Unlike some class-action plaintiffs, Freddie Mac looks to be in a stronger position to survive a motion to dismiss on these grounds. The company dealt directly with many of the banks accused of manipulating Libor by arranging for swaps, including Barclays, UBS and the Royal Bank of Scotland, all of which admitted to violations. The success of its trading in mortgage securities and hedging its risk was usually tied into Libor, the most important benchmark rate for mortgages.
Freddie Mac has taken an even more aggressive position in its lawsuit by naming the British Bankers Association as a defendant. The association was responsible for collecting the data from banks and then issuing the Libor benchmark, marketing it as a valuable tool for setting interest rates across a number of currencies.
It is not clear whether the claim against the association can survive a preliminary motion to dismiss, however. Freddie Mac claims that the organization was aware of the manipulation by the banks but did nothing to stop it. But the fact that one is aware of misconduct by others, and even that their services are being used, is usually not enough to show participation in a conspiracy. 
There is also the issue of whether a United States court has jurisdiction over the British Bankers Association. While the banks have global operations and extensive dealings with the United States, the banking association operates primarily in London, and there may not be sufficient contacts with the United States to allow it to be brought into the case. Of course, that will be decided at an early stage when the association does its best to get out of the case.
For the banks, Freddie Mac is the type of plaintiff that can be expected put up a tough fight because, now that it is controlled by the federal government, the real beneficiaries of its lawsuit are taxpayers. Add to that the prospect of a similar claim by Fannie Mae, and the banks involved in Libor manipulation will be dealing with this issue for quite a while.
Freddie Mac v Bank of America LIBOR Complaint March 2013
Libor-Based Antitrust Class Action Dismissal Brief by DealBook

        
A How-To Guide for Banks Facing Libor Settlements
        
With R.B.S. Settlement, Legal Tab for Banks Grows and Grows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (96%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (93%); INTERBANK LENDING (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); DAMAGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (76%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (76%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (76%); CONTRACTS LAW (73%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); BOND ISSUES (63%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%) Antitrust Laws and Competition Issues; Banking and Financial Institutions; Barclays PLC; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Interest Rates; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Mortgages; Royal Bank of Scotland PLC; Suits and Litigation; UBS AG; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; UBS AG|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; UBS AG

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (68%); RBS (LSE) (68%); RBS (AMS) (68%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; UBS AG; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



651 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: NIMBY Deficit Hawks

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: Lawmakers love to talk about cutting spending. They just don&#8217;t like to do it. 

 BODY:
Jerry Moran often repeated the Republican party's magical incantation when he was running for senator from Kansas in 2010: "We don't have a revenue problem - we have a spending problem." After he was elected, he continued the drumbeat, and supported using the debt ceiling as a threat to enact more budget cuts. He opposed the 2011 budget deal that led to the sequester, not because he was against the sequester but because it didn't cut spending enough.
But now that the sequester is in place, and discretionary spending is about to drop to historically low levels, Mr. Moran has a problem: One of the programs facing cuts is in his own backyard. Specifically, he's angry that the sequester will force the Federal Aviation Administration to reduce staffing at many rural airports, including some in Kansas. And so he has been banging on his desk for the last few days, demanding an amendment to restore that funding.

"Once there is an accident, and somebody dies and a plane crashes, the question will always be, what if there had been an air traffic control tower there?" Mr. Moran said. "What if we had left the program in place?" 
Of course, you could also make the same point (perhaps less melodramatically) about the millions of unemployed people who will lose benefits, or poor people who will lose housing or nutrition assistance, or the vast cuts to education and law enforcement. Mr. Moran chose to focus on rural airports, naturally, but never mentioned that his party could have prevented all of these cuts by simply agreeing to a plan that combined more thoughtful reductions with some revenue increases.
But it didn't, and that led to his lonely stand this week. Because of Senate rules, Mr. Moran was able to singlehandedly delay a vote on a stopgap spending bill to keep the government open for six months past March 27. But Harry Reid, the majority leader, refused to give him a vote on the airport amendment, clearly annoyed that scores of similar requests had come in from senators of both parties.
There was an amendment to restore tuition assistance for members of the military. An amendment to restore White House tours. An amendment, backed by meatpackers, to restore funding to food inspectors. An amendment to move money from military purchases of biofuels to defense maintenance.
Nearly 100 of these amendments were filed, which would have taken weeks to debate and vote upon. In the end, because of the March 27 deadline, only about 10 were accepted (including meat inspections and tuition assistance, but not rural airports). The Senate will vote on all of them in a marathon this afternoon, and is expected to approve the underlying bill, which will then go to the House for a quick rubber stamp.
But every proposed change gets at the same uncomfortable truth: Lawmakers love to talk about cutting spending. They love to campaign on it. They just don't like to do it.
 4:52 p.m. | Updated 
The Senate passed the six-month spending bill this afternoon on a vote of 73 to 26. The House is expected to pass it on Thursday. Both chambers will then turn to budget bills for 2014, where the gap between the House and Senate is considered nearly unbridgeable.

        
The Sequester Is Not an Abstraction
        
Continuing Resolution, Continuing Dysfunction
        
The People Versus the Party
        
The Limits of Executive Power
        
The Sequester, State by State

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AIRPORTS (88%); CIVIL AVIATION (88%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (88%); TUITION FEES (87%); US BUDGET CONTROL ACT OF 2011 (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET CUTS (76%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (73%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (73%); INSPECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); APPROVALS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (69%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%); MEAT INSPECTION (64%); FOOD INSPECTION (64%); MEATS (60%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (60%); BIOFUELS (50%) Budget Control Act (2011); Federal Budget (US); Kansas; Moran, Jerry; Featured Posts

PERSON: JERRY MORAN (91%); HARRY REID (58%) Moran, Jerry

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Kansas

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2013



652 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Single Parents: Unsupported, and Feeling the Blame

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Men and boys appear caught in a vicious cycle of single-parent families and poverty, but the effects are felt by both sexes. 

 BODY:
Sometimes research results are politically incorrect, or even offensive for some of us, and still worth talking about.
"Wayward Sons," a report on "the emerging gender gap in labor markets and education," from Third Way, a center-left policy research organization, presents exactly that kind of opportunity. The M.I.T. economists David H. Autor and Melanie Wasserman took a "deep dive" into the economic trends, research and statistics regarding growing educational and economic disparities between men and women, and changes in family structure, and found that "the decline of two-parent households" is particularly hard on the sons of single parents, who are usually women. 
Binyamin Appelbaum spoke to Professor Autor for The Times's Business Day section ("Study of Men's Falling Income Cites Single Parents"). He summed up the proposed problem: income inequality has soared, stretching the gap between rich and poor, and a smaller share of Americans are making the climb. The children of lower-income parents are ever more likely to become, in turn, the parents of lower-income children. A growing share of lower-income children are raised by their mother but not their father, and research shows that those children are at a particular disadvantage, with the consequences appearing larger for boys than girls. Single mothers spend more time with their daughters, and those daughters are both more likely to enroll in college, and more likely to finish, than boys raised in single-parent households.
It's the very definition of a vicious cycle, and anecdotes about personal experience or presidents raised by single mothers can't change the numbers or explain them. No one - not Professors Autor and Wasserman or anyone else - has a definitive explanation for the gender differences in outcomes. Causation is unclear, but correlation isn't: over all, men and boys are struggling in a changed environment.

But while the fact that the sons of single mothers struggle more than their daughters is the easy headline to take away from the work done by Professors Autor and Wasserman, it's the wrong one. The focus on men and boys shouldn't distract from a larger problem: single mothers and their daughters may be doing better, but they can't be said to be thriving. Single motherhood is associated with poor health in middle age, financial hardship and depression. The statistical impacts of being raised by a single parent (like lower average scores on standardized tests, poorer grades and an increased likelihood of dropping out of high school or failing to attend college) may be stronger for sons, but they affect daughters too.
We as a society can do better for children raised by single mothers - and for families headed by single parents in general. All of the work-life-balance conversation that's dominated this blog and much of the news media for weeks comes down to this same problem: It's difficult to raise children in a society that assumes there's a parent at home, and one in which the guiding philosophy for supporting families is "every man for himself." That struggle is magnified for single parents.
In a comment on the Times article, Timothy Casey, a senior staff lawyer atLegal Momentum, a women's legal defense and education fund, writes that "the U.S. does much less than its high-income peers to assure single-parent families basic economic security, and much less than its high-income peers to help single parents balance jobholding and caregiving." His research (with his co-author, Laurie Maldonado) compared American single-parent families with single-parent families in 16 other high-income countries, and found that American single-parent families "are worst off":
They have the highest poverty rate. They have the highest rate of no health care coverage. They face the stingiest income support system. They lack the paid-time-off-from-work entitlements that in comparison countries make it easier for single parents to balance caregiving and jobholding. They must wait longer than single parents in comparison countries for early childhood education to begin. They have a low rate of child support receipt.
American single parents also work more hours for less pay - not a circumstance conducive to raising young children.
The problems that create a cycle of poverty for men and boys catch women as well. We could improve the prospects of those single parents, and their sons and daughters, by finding ways to make it easier for all of us to raise our children and financially support them at the same time.

        
Poor Women and Children Faced With Fiscal Threat
        
Don't Lean In: Do We Want Mothers to Work Part-Time?
        
Research: A.D.H.D. Remains a Problem for Adults
        
Day Care and Behavior Problems, Unlinked
        
I Don't Want My Preschooler to Be a 'Gentleman'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (93%); MEN (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); PARENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); TRENDS (78%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (77%); WOMEN (77%); PARENTING (71%) Children and Childhood; Income Inequality; Parenting; Research; single mothers; United States Economy; Women and Girls; Single Mothers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



653 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Cyprus Shows How Not to Do a Bailout

BYLINE: STEPHEN J. LUBBEN


HIGHLIGHT: The Cyprus crisis shows that, for all the faults with the financial crisis rescues in the United States, the European Union still finds ways to show us how poorly a bailout could be handled. 

 BODY:
Cyprus can't really be about Cyprus, can it? After all,the banking sector in that country pales in comparison to things like the London Whale trade and the amount of capital the big banks have to raise to meet Basel III. 
Some will say it is about depositor insurance. Fair enough.
But by now, I'd think investors would be smart enough to know that when you start chasing yield in small countries with outsize banking sectors, bad things will happen. And deposit insurance is only as good as the sovereign standing behind the insurance.
Cyprus does show that, for all the faults with the financial crisis rescues in the United States, the European Union still finds ways to show us how poorly a bailout can be handled. Why exactly did we restrict the Federal Reserve's powers under Section 13(3), which used to allow the Fed to lend to all kinds of financial firms?
Cyprus also shows that even an allegedly "safe" bankruptcy system can be too big and quite dangerous. After all, the banks in Cyprus were noted for their reliance on deposits rather than other forms of dodgy short-term finance like repo and conduits and what not.
Cyprus also shows the difficulty of imposing rigor on an ex post basis. I get the desire to impose the cost of the bailout on the outsiders with allegedly shady connections to quasi-democratic countries. But it seems a bit late in the day to suddenly become concerned about money laundering and tax evasion. Nobody noticed this before March 2013?
The really big issue with Cyprus, that is so often lost in the articles about bank runs and Russian bad guys, is what Cyprus means for the euro zone and the European Union generally.
Surely, Cyprus has to be high on the list of countries that maybe should not have been let into the euro. But if Cyprus can leave, what about Greece, and Spain, and ...
And this is not only about the distressed countries. Once one country can leave, any other country can consider it, too, whenever they have a beef with the European Union. What if the Netherlands or Finland decides it doesn't want to be bit actors in Germany's dramas any more? What if Britain ... well, that one's easy.

        
All the Plan B's for Cyprus Look Dreadful
        
A Bank Levy in Cyprus, and Why Not to Worry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EURO (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); MONETARY UNIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (74%); EURO ZONE (74%); EURO CRISIS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); DEBT CRISIS (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (67%); TAX FRAUD (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%) Cyprus; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); European Union; In Debt

ORGANIZATION: European Union

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) EUROPE (94%); CYPRUS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); CENTRAL EUROPE (76%); GERMANY (76%); GREECE (59%); NETHERLANDS (56%); FINLAND (56%) Cyprus

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



654 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Q. and A. on Obama's Trip to Israel

BYLINE: JODI RUDOREN


HIGHLIGHT: Readers pose questions on the first day of Mr. Obama&#8217;s trip to Israel as president. 

 BODY:
Last Updated, 12:11 p.m. Jodi Rudoren, Jerusalem bureau chief of The New York Times, answered questions from readers, including on Facebook and Twitter, on the first day of President Obama's trip to Israel as president. We distilled questions asked by several readers and included a few specific examples posed on the social networks. 
 Q. 
Why didn't Mr. Obama visit Israel during his first term as president?
 Tim Freeman (on Facebook): Wow! He went his whole first term without visiting them? That seems strange, as they're our closest ally in the Middle East. 
 A. 
It may not be as strange as it sounds. Only four of the last 11 American presidents visited Israel while in office: Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton in their first terms, Richard Nixon and George W. Bush in their second. 
In addition, President Obama's early efforts on the peace process did not work well, and tensions increased between him and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, so a visit may have seemed inappropriate. Second, Mr. Obama was dealing with a lot of other pressing matters, including health care reform, the economic crisis, the Arab Spring. 
 Q. 
Will President Obama discuss human rights issues in the Palestinian territories?
[#x200f]
https://twitter.com/mlebrun/status/314183549882355714
 A. 
President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Salaam Fayyad of the Palestinian Authority will almost certainly talk about the ways that Israeli occupation affects the daily lives of people in both the West Bank and Gaza during their meetings in Ramallah on Thursday. Mr. Obama may also hear stories about checkpoints, travel restrictions, withheld salaries and other quality-of-life issues from the young people he will be meeting at a United States-financed center. 
 When Mr. Obama's visit was announced, some analysts thought the United States might take the opportunity to try to force changes in the way Israel rules the part of the West Bank known as Area C, where most settlers live. But more recently the focus has been on whether Mr. Obama would try to negotiate a possible freeze in Israeli settlement building in exchange for a Palestinian promise not to pursue claims against Israel in United Nations agencies like the International Criminal Court. 
Several Palestinians I interviewed on Tuesday in Ramallah invoked the American civil rights legacy as a reason Mr. Obama should take particular interest in the discrimination they see as inherent in the current situation. It will be interesting to see whether the president raises Palestinian rights during his public statements from the West Bank on Thursday, or in his speech back in Jerusalem later in the day.
 Q. 
Will Mr. Obama promise anything to the Palestinians during his trip?
https://twitter.com/davidlangle/status/314195986543165441
 A. 
Ah, if only news reporters had a crystal ball. The White House has described the trip as a listening mission and promised no new peace plan. The president may make broad commitments along the lines of serving as an honest broker between the sides, but any sort of specific promise would appear unlikely. 
 Q. 
Is the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, showing any sign that he will negotiate with the Palestinians?
#NYTworld Is Bibi in any mood to deal with the Palestinians?
- jdberr (@jdberr)20 Mar 13
 A. 
Mr. Netanyahu has repeatedly stated in the weeks since Israel's Jan. 22 elections that he is ready to return to negotiations, and he included a promise to do so in one of the agreements that formed his new governing coalition. However, he insists on "no preconditions" - and he considers as a precondition the Palestinians' demand that the negotiations start on the basis that the future two states would be divided along the pre-1967 borders, with land swaps to balance Israeli settlements. 
President Obama could seek to break this stalemate, perhaps by redefining the very notion of a precondition.
Mood might be the more interesting question. Mr. Netanyahu has just emerged from a bruising couple of months, after a disappointing election result and an even tougher coalition-building process. He is looking for a boost. Given the makeup of his coalition, which is fiercely divided on how to deal with the Palestinians, it's in some ways hard to see this as the first thing he would try to tackle.
Then again, to let President Obama come and go without there being any perceptible movement in the peace process may be dangerous for Israel's international position. The conventional wisdom about Mr. Netanyahu is that he is risk-averse, but he also has an impressive ability to surprise. 
 For instance, he secretly negotiated deals last year first with Shaul Mofaz of Kadima and later with Avigdor Lieberman's Yisrael Beiteinu. Those were internal political strategy deals, but maybe a substantive surprise is awaiting us.
 Q. 
Is Mr. Obama expected to make any statements regarding settlements, the future of Jerusalem and the occupation of the Palestinian territories?
https://twitter.com/Adarsh_B/status/314104974848167936
 A. 
It's hard to imagine the president making a big policy speech in Jerusalem without somehow addressing these issues. Stay tuned on Thursday - nytimes.com will be live-streaming the speech. 
 Q. 
Why is Mr. Obama not visiting the Temple Mount?
https://twitter.com/richwisegenius/status/314097591107338240
 A. 
Of all the holy sites in the area, what Jews call the Temple Mount and Muslims the Noble Sanctuary is perhaps the most contested and therefore the least likely spot for an American president to visit, though "taboo" is putting it too strongly. 
The site is revered by Jews as the former location of their two ancient temples and by Muslims for its Dome of the Rock and Al Aksa Mosque. Since Israel captured East Jerusalem during the 1967 war, the compound has been operated by the Waqf, the Muslim religious endowment, with security provided by Israel. Jews are allowed to visit but not to pray there. 
The second Palestinian intifada, or uprising, was set off in 2000 by a visit to the site by Ariel Sharon, then the leader of the opposition Likud Party. Lately, more and more Jews have been ascending the Mount, and there have frequently been clashes there.
President Obama is also not visiting the Western Wall, a remnant of the ancient Jewish temple, largely for security reasons. He does plan to go to the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem on Friday. 
 Q. 
Will Mr. Obama give more aid to the Palestinians?
https://twitter.com/UAChaudhry/status/314395420149301252
 A. 
Washington freed up some $200 million in aid to the Palestinian Authority after plans for Mr. Obama's trip were unveiled last month. Not sure whether the visit will yield further aid - it does not seem to be high on the agenda. 
 Q. 
What influence can Mr. Obama have on the peace process?
 Ouadia Satori (on Facebook): Mister Obama, you are the president of the USA and are clothed in immense powers. Can you use them to enforce the two states solutions you seem to believe in? Safe trip.
 A. 
There is wide agreement among Israeli and Palestinian leaders, and Middle East experts, that an American president can exert immense influence on the peace process. That said, there is also a consensus that the process cannot be forced on the principals. Those who continue to work for a negotiated solution say it is a delicate, intangible, complicated balancing act, how to leverage change, how to lead, and make people feel as if they are doing it themselves.

        
Israel's Animated Diplomacy
        
Israelis Divided Over Separate Bus Lines for Arabs and Jews in Occupied West Bank
        
Palestinians Rally Support Online for West Bank Protest Camp
        
Israeli Left Mocks 'Bibi's Bet on Romney'
        
Video of Settler Shooting Raises Questions Over Israeli Army Response

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (66%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (52%) International Relations; Israel; Israeli Settlements; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack; Palestinian Authority; Palestinians; Middle East; News; world

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Palestinian Authority

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (88%); BILL CLINTON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%) Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



655 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2323 words

HEADLINE: The Republican Autopsy Report

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Reince Priebus, Karl Rove and the religious right battle for the soul of their party. 

 BODY:
On Monday a Republican task force released a remarkably hard-headed diagnosis of the party's many liabilities: its ideological rigidity, its preference for the rich over workers, its alienation of minorities, its reactionary social policies and its institutionalized repression of dissent and innovation.
The 97-page Growth and Opportunity Project report was commissioned in the wake of the 2012 election debacle by Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee. The G.O.P. report is an extraordinary public acknowledgment of internal discord and vulnerability, which has intensified the battle between the deeply committed conservative wing and the more pragmatic, pro-business wing for control of the Republican Party. With just a few exceptions, it does not mince words.

At the federal level, it says, the party is "marginalizing itself," and, in the absence of major change, "it will be increasingly difficult for Republicans to win a presidential election in the near future." Young voters are "rolling their eyes at what the party represents." Voters' belief that "the G.O.P. does not care about them is doing great harm." Formerly loyal voters gathered in focus groups describe Republicans as " 'scary,' 'narrow-minded' and 'out of touch' and that we were a party of 'stuffy old men.' " 
In a rare intervention in policy making for a political committee, the R.N.C. report calls for abandonment of the party's anti-immigration stance, flatly declaring that "we must embrace and champion comprehensive immigration reform." In an equally radical challenge to Republican orthodoxy, the Priebus report states:
We have to blow the whistle at corporate malfeasance and attack corporate welfare. We should speak out when a company liquidates itself and its executives receive bonuses but rank-and-file workers are left unemployed. We should speak out when C.E.O.s receive tens of millions of dollars in retirement packages but middle-class workers have not had a meaningful raise in years.
The report also warns that Republicans need to mute, if not silence, anti-gay rhetoric if they are to have any chance of regaining support among voters under the age of 30.
For the G.O.P. to appeal to younger voters, we do not have to agree on every issue, but we do need to make sure young people do not see the Party as totally intolerant of alternative points of view. Already, there is a generational difference within the conservative movement about issues involving the treatment and the rights of gays - and for many younger voters, these issues are a gateway into whether the Party is a place they want to be. If our Party is not welcoming and inclusive, young people and increasingly other voters will continue to tune us out. The Party should be proud of its conservative principles, but just because someone disagrees with us on 20 percent of the issues, that does not mean we cannot come together on the rest of the issues where we do agree.
This suggests that the issue of same-sex marriage is on course to become a source of significant division within the Republican Party, as social conservatives view the commitment to marriage as a sacrament between a man and woman. Ralph Reed, founder of the Faith and Freedom Coalition and former executive director of the Christian Coalition, contended in a phone interview that the Republican Party risked alienating a large block of loyal voters if it moved to the left on same-sex marriage. Reed argues that opposing same-sex marriage is not a liability and contends that voters are evenly split on the issue, according to exit polls. In fact, in the 2012 exit polls, and in Washington Post polling, a plurality of voters, 49-46, responded affirmatively to the question "Should same-sex marriages be legal in your state?" The issue has shown steady growth in public support.
Priebus and the five authors of the report - Henry Barbour (nephew of former R.N.C. chairman Haley Barbour) of Mississippi, Zori Fonalledas of Puerto Rico, and Glenn McCall of South Carolina, all members of the R.N.C., along with Sally Bradshaw, an adviser to Jeb Bush, and Ari Fleischer, former press secretary to George W. Bush - were far more blunt in their analysis than many expected.
There is at least one crucial problem that the authors, all members of the establishment wing of the party, address only peripherally and with kid gloves: the extreme conservatism of the party's primary and caucus voters - the people who actually pick nominees. For over three decades, these voters have episodically shown an inclination to go off the deep end and nominate general election losers in House and Senate races - or, in the case of very conservative states and districts, general election winners who push the party in the House and Senate to become an instrument of obstruction.
The highly visible presence of the candidates these voters prefer - recall the party's Senate nominees in Missouri and Indiana, Todd Akin and Richard Mourdock, and their bizarre views on rape and abortion - suggests that the Republican Party has a severe, if not toxic, problem: a septic electorate that, in the words of the Mayo Clinic, "can trigger a cascade of changes that can damage multiple organ systems, causing them to fail."
If that is the case, then the task of the Priebus commission should not have been to diagnose the party's problems, but to conduct an autopsy.
Leaving that question aside for a moment, let's turn to a part of the report that is tough in its implications, but less forcefully put than other sections of the document: the difficulties created by "super PACs" and other independent expenditure "third party" groups that have become a major presence in House and Senate elections. Without naming any super PACs, the five authors take a hard line against the role of these independent expenditure groups active in Republican primaries: "No one has a monopoly on knowing who is the best candidate; the electorate ultimately makes the decision."
The authors agree with the substance of Karl Rove's goal in the new Conservative Victory Project - that goal being to weed out marginal candidates in primaries who appeal to the base but alienate swing voters. The authors disagree, however, with the way in which the C.V.P. is going about this task, running negative ads against those likely to carry the party banner down to defeat in November. The Growth and Opportunity report is critical of all independent expenditure groups, including the anti-tax Club for Growth, that try to play kingmaker in the candidate selection process:
Outside groups now play an expanded role affecting federal races and, in some ways, overshadow state parties in primary and general elections. As a result, this environment has caused a splintered Congress with little party cohesion so that gridlock and polarization grow as the political parties lose their ability to rally their elected officeholders around a set of coherent governing policies.
Campaign finance laws and court rulings restrict mega-contributions to the parties while permitting $1 million-plus donations to independent groups, including the two other Rove political committees, American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS, which, the report argues, corrupt the political environment:
The current campaign finance environment has led to a handful of friends and allied groups dominating our side's efforts. This is not healthy. A lot of centralized authority in the hands of a few people at these outside organizations is dangerous for our Party.
In fairness to Rove - a phrase that does not come easily - his agenda does address the issue of a problematic Republican electorate: he aims to prevent ideologically driven voters from committing political suicide, dooming the party's chances of winning a Senate majority.
I called Jonathan Collegio, spokesman for the three Rove groups (American Crossroads, Crossroads GPS and the Conservative Victory Project) to see how Rove and his allies picture this dynamic playing out. Collegio explained their thinking:
We looked at the last two election cycles and came to the conclusion that we lost from four to seven U.S. Senate seats not because of the party message, in those cases, but because of the party's messenger.
While claiming that Rove's new group does not have an anti-Tea Party agenda, Collegio said that in the four to seven Senate races that Republicans lost in 2010 and 2012, primaries produced "candidates who were suboptimal, not necessarily Tea Party candidates, but undisciplined, lacking fund-raising ability and substandard generally."
Along the same lines as the Priebus report, Collegio cited the 2002 McCain-Feingold law, which prohibits political parties from accepting large "soft money" donations, arguing that it undermines the role of the R.N.C. and other official groups in mediating the political process. The vacuum created by McCain-Feingold served to empower renegade third party groups, one of the many unintended consequences of campaign finance reform. "The campaign finance reforms of the last decade," Collegio told me
dramatically weakened political parties and artificially constrained the parties' ability to raise large contributions. That structural change has the effect of empowering outside groups. We are in an era where power is not centralized in the parties because of campaign reforms of 10 years ago. The weakening of the parties, in turn, makes it harder for party leaders to cut deals on big pieces of legislation because they don't control the electoral pocketbook the way they used to.
A rump group of conservatives disputes the Rove-Collegio analysis of Republican Senate losses, contending that centrist candidates backed by Rove's American Crossroads fared far worse than those backed by the hard right. Nineteen conservatives, including David Bossie, president of Citizens United; Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council; and Richard Viguerie, chairman of Conservative HQ, wrote in a letter to American Crossroads donors (who are publicly listed in campaign finance reports to the Federal Election Commission):
In 2012, the only Senate Republican winners were Jeff Flake (Ariz.), Deb Fischer (Neb.), and Ted Cruz (Tex.) - all of whom enjoyed significant Tea Party and conservative support. Meanwhile, more moderate candidates like Tommy Thompson (Wisc.), Heather Wilson (N. Mex.), Rick Berg (N. Dak.), and Denny Rehberg (Mont.) went down to defeat despite significant support from Crossroads. It was firmly expected that Republicans would capture the Senate in 2012. It is inexcusable that they failed and, in fact, lost two seats. The facts speak for themselves. It was not conservatives. Not one moderate Republican challenger won. According to the Sunlight Foundation, not one Senate challenger supported by Crossroads won. There was another, equally important reason Republicans fared so poorly: Groups like Crossroads squandered hundreds of millions of dollars in what were arguably the most inept campaign advertising efforts ever.
A Republican operative who is a close associate of Rove was more ironic in his criticism of the C.V.P.: "If I was in a Republican primary and Karl Rove came out against me, it would be the single best thing that could happen to my campaign."
Further fueling suspicions on the right of an anti-conservative vendetta led by Rove and the R.N.C., Rove and party leaders are working together to develop a high-tech digital platform designed to facilitate voter and donor contact and to replicate the major advances in digital campaigning achieved by the Obama campaign.
More broadly, the alliance between Rove and the R.N.C. does substantiate the view that establishment forces are driving the reform movement within the Republican Party, an establishment that includes much of corporate America, including the Chamber of Commerce, the Bush family and its allies, and the more moderate, traditionalist donor community.
Conservative analysts like Timothy P. Carney of the Washington Examiner and Ramesh Ponnuru of the National Review quickly spotted the establishment tilt in the Priebus report.Carney wrote:
Republican elites tend to favor mass immigration and be ambivalent or supportive of legal abortion and gay marriage. So, shouldn't we take it with a grain of salt when the Republican leadership puts out a document saying that the G.O.P. should change only its rhetoric on economic issues, but change its substance on social issues?
Similarly, Ponnuru wrote that the recommendations "come naturally to Republican elites" who "are more likely to favor same-sex marriage and comprehensive immigration reform on principle." The report reflects "elite conventional wisdom perfectly, just perfectly."
In January, I pointed out that "If the conservative movement continues on its downward trajectory, the American business community, which has the most to lose from Republican failure, will be the key force arguing for moderation."
That moment has come. The Priebus report and Rove's Conservative Victory Project together mark a significant escalation in the battle between the center and the right over the soul of the Republican Party. What has yet to be determined is whether they are fighting over a patient who can be quickly resuscitated or a patient with a chronic but not fatal illness - or a corpse.
The very bluntness of the Growth and Opportunity report reflects the seriousness of the moment the Republican Party faces: increasing difficulty holding on to its House majority; weakening prospects of regaining control of the Senate; and the threat of unending Democratic control of the White House.
An earlier version of this column misstated the name of the newspaper for which Timothy P. Carney is a columnist; it is the Washington Examiner, not the Washington Times.

        
On Second Thoughts
        
Republicans Ask Themselves What Went Wrong
        
Demographics and the 2012 Election
        
Super Pac! Super Bad!
        
How to Argue About Politics

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); POLITICS (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); AUTOPSIES (74%); RELIGION (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (71%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (69%); MISCONDUCT (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); IMMIGRATION (64%); IMMIGRATION LAW (64%); LGBT RIGHTS (60%); FOCUS GROUPS (51%) American Crossroads; Conservative Victory Project; Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies; Ponnuru, Ramesh; Presidential Election of 2012; Priebus, Reince R; Reed, Ralph E Jr; Republican National Committee; Republican Party; Rove, Karl; United States Politics and Government; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: American Crossroads; Conservative Victory Project; Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies; Republican National Committee; Republican Party

PERSON: KARL ROVE (88%) Ponnuru, Ramesh; Priebus, Reince R; Reed, Ralph E Jr; Rove, Karl

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



656 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 20, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: With JPMorgan Settlement, MF Global Clients Move Closer to Payout

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: MF Global customers moved one step closer to recouping their missing money late on Tuesday when JPMorgan Chase released its claim to more than $500 million belonging to the bankrupt brokerage firm. 

 BODY:
MF Global customers moved one step closer to recouping their missing money late on Tuesday when JPMorgan Chase released its claim to more than $500 million belonging to the bankrupt brokerage firm. 
The settlement deal, struck between JPMorgan and the trustee overseeing the return of customer money, puts to rest more than a year of tough negotiations. JPMorgan was reluctant to part with the money, arguing in part that it was owed tens of millions of dollars as a creditor of MF Global. 
But the settlement deal, which includes a $100 million cash payout to the trustee and a promise from JPMorgan not to clawback $417 million it doled out last year, paves the way for MF Global's customers to recover nearly all the money that disappeared when the brokerage firm imploded. That goal, surprisingly within reach, is a stunning turnaround from MF Global's bankruptcy filing in October 2011, when $1.6 billion vanished from the firm. 
"This is a significant milestone in returning assets to former customers," James W. Giddens, the trustee, said in a statement. 
In a sign that Mr. Giddens is moving closer to making MF Global's customers whole, he asked a bankruptcy court judge on Tuesday to approve $300 million in cash payouts. The request comes on the heels of a judge approving plans in January to bring most American customers to 93 percent of their original investment, up from 80 percent. The new request, if approved by Judge Martin Glenn of the United States Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan, will further aid customers by "several percentage points," according to Mr. Giddens. 
Foreign customers are not as well-positioned, though they too could receive additional money from the JPMorgan settlement. 
The accord closes a bitter chapter in the MF Global debacle. 
MF Global customers have long questioned whether JPMorgan was playing hardball, echoing accusations the bank faced in the aftermath of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. The customers complained that JPMorgan was slow to settle with Mr. Giddens, and even now they wonder whether the bank should have returned more. 
Mr. Giddens noted, however, that the deal was an "economically sound agreement ending what would have been a costly, protracted, and uncertain legal battle." Without the agreement, he said, fresh payouts to customers could have stalled "for at least two or three years." 
While JPMorgan had already returned $1 billion belonging to customers and $417 million in the firm's proprietary funds, it attached a lien to the latter payment. Under the deal to pay $100 million to Mr. Giddens, it also released the lien on Tuesday. 
"We are pleased to have reached this settlement, which will help restore funds to MF Global's customers," a JPMorgan spokeswoman said in an e-mail, adding that bank officials "don't expect this settlement will have a material impact on our results." The spokeswoman, Jennifer Zuccarelli, explained that "the agreement resolves all outstanding matters" between the bank and the MF Global "estate, its customers and creditors."
JPMorgan was an obvious target for Mr. Giddens. It was at the center of MF Global's downfall, lending to the firm and clearing its trades. 
The bank was also a major recipient of customer money during MF Global's chaotic final moments. When MF Global posted extra collateral to back its trades, aiming to reassure JPMorgan about its precarious position, some of the funds most likely belonged to customers. 
Federal authorities have also scrutinized a $175 million transfer MF Global made from customer accounts to JPMorgan the day before the brokerage collapsed. The transfer, which was authorized by the firm's Chicago office, was made to patch an overdraft in a London account. 
While JPMorgan questioned the origin of the funds, seeking written assurances that the transfer was legitimate, MF Global balked. JPMorgan seized the money anyway, though the bank has said that it received oral assurances. 
 "As we have said before," the JPMorgan spokeswoman said, the bank "worked to assist our client in a responsible manner under very challenging circumstances." 
James L. Koutoulas, a Chicago hedge fund manager who became a voice for thousands of customers whose money disappeared, might disagree. After he appeared on CNBC in 2011 to criticize JPMorgan, the bank closed his account and froze his credit card. 
The bank has declined to discuss Mr. Koutoulas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); JUDGES (71%) Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); MF GLOBAL HOLDINGS LTD (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2013



657 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1817 words

HEADLINE: A Building Boom in China

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
After years of fevered activity, museum building and expansion in the United States have slowed to a crawl under a low-lying economic cloud. In Europe, where the climate is even stormier, venerable state-financed institutions go begging for cash.
In China, by contrast, the fiscal sun shines.
Museums -- big, small, government-backed, privately bankrolled -- are opening like mad. In 2011 alone, some 390 new ones appeared. And the numbers are holding. China is opening museums on a surreal scale.
Many are multipurpose affairs, mixing history, ethnography, science, politics, art and entertainment. The museum devoted only to art is a relatively novel concept in China. Models for it, most of them Western, are still being sorted out, though they tend to line up at either end of the temporal spectrum, focusing on the very new or the very old. 
Until recently, museums of contemporary art in China had been privately run, either as corporate entities or as the vanity showcases of rich collectors. Last October, an important precedent was set with the opening of the Shanghai Contemporary Art Museum, the country's first government-supported museum of up-to-the-minute work.
If official acknowledgment of the importance of Chinese art's international stature was long delayed, it was fairly bold when it arrived. The Shanghai museum, popularly known as the Power Station of Art -- it's in a converted 19th-century power plant -- is physically spectacular. It opened with a major globalist bang in the form of the 9th Shanghai Biennale, which filled the capacious interior and spread out into the surrounding city.
The Biennale still has a little time to run; it closes March 31. Meanwhile, some 1,600 miles west of Shanghai, at the oasis city of Dunhuang on the edge of the Gobi Desert, another museum, or something like a museum, far less conventional than the Power Station, is under construction. Its purpose is not to attract crowds to new art, but to keep them away from damaging contact with old art, specifically the ancient and rapidly deteriorating Buddhist murals that cover the interiors of hundreds of caves in the Dunhuang area.
Painted between the fourth and 14th centuries at a central point on the Silk Road, the caves constitute a virtual museum of cosmopolitan Chinese culture spanning a millennium.
As different as they are, the Shanghai and Dunhuang museums share one quality typical of China's new cultural institutions: ambitiousness. Often this is simply measured in size.
When the revamped National Museum of China opened in Beijing in 2011, much was made, officially, of its being, square foot for square foot, the single largest museum of any kind in the world, even though the history of China it told was strategically truncated.
The taste for gigantism was evident again in Shanghai last fall. On the same October day that the Power Station opened, so did a second state museum in Shanghai, the China Art Museum, sometimes called the China Art Palace. Dedicated largely to 20th-century Chinese modernism, and housed in a zany lacquer-red structure originally erected for the 2010 World Expo, it advertised itself as the biggest museum of new art in the country. So it is, though anyone could see that its exhausting display would benefit from serious editing.
But Shanghai's two state museums are only the tip of the city's new-art iceberg, with smaller institutions making up in sheer numbers what they lack in size. Most of the smaller museums are privately owned and financed. At least two, the Minsheng Art Museum and the Rockbund Art Museum, have solid reputations.
The Minsheng, supported by a banking corporation, specializes in contemporary Chinese art. Under its deputy director, Zhou Tiehai, himself a well-known artist (his satirical ''Joe Camel'' paintings made the international rounds a decade or so ago), the museum has organized valuable retrospectives for midcareer artists who have been influential in China without being well known abroad.
The Rockbund, which opened in 2010, operates as a kind of kunsthalle, with rotating shows and no collection. It is notable for highlighting non-Chinese art, a trend that has spread to larger museums. When the China Art Palace opened it featured a special show, ''Congratulations From the World,'' of premier odds-and-ends loans from the British Museum, the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam and the Whitney Museum of American Art. The Power Station recently played host to Surrealist surveys from the Pompidou Center in Paris.
An international mix is the rule in the proliferating number of vanity museums created by private collectors.
Late last year, Liu Yiqian, a billionaire Shanghai investor, and his wife, Wang Wei, opened their Dragon Museum (also known as the Long Museum), with holdings that included ancient bronzes, Mao-era paintings and contemporary works. The couple's attention is now focused exclusively on the new and, being ardent shoppers, they have plans for a second museum in the city.
That will be joined by yet another museum, to hold the collection of Budi Tek, a Chinese-Indonesian entrepreneur who in 2011 made the Art & Auction list of the 10 most powerful figures in the international art world. At the time he had been buying for a scant six years but had already established a museum in Jakarta. Now, thanks to a Chinese government deal, he has at his disposal a building, an old airplane hangar, ready to be renovated and expanded for a museum in Shanghai.
Given the current trophy value of new art in China, and the fact that the country has, according to Forbes, the world's second-highest number of billionaires, the prospect of further private museums seems endless. How those museums will shape up, though, is a question. Building walls is one thing; gathering significant work is another.
Many private collections now are simply products of what the global market pushes: the same three hot Chinese artists, hot European artists, and so on. But while museums for such collections proliferate, China still has no museum offering anything like a comprehensive historical view of the country's contemporary art over the last 30 years. And features that are taken for granted in museums elsewhere -- scholarship, educational outreach, overarching curatorial perspectives -- are absent or in a nascent stage in many of China's institutions of new art.
Without knowledgeable administrative oversight, what is to prevent future state-sponsored museums of new art -- and surely there will be more -- from mindlessly going the bigger-is-better route? What is to prevent private museums from being glorified storage facilities -- places for collectors to park art, with no higher purpose than to flaunt personal power through material accumulation?
Higher purpose is precisely what the Dunhuang project has going for it. Or maybe higher purposes: to preserve the past, but also, symbolically, to right past wrongs.
Buddhist caves are found in several sites around Dunhuang, but a large majority, some 700, are carved into long cliffs at a place called Mogao several miles outside the city. According to legend, in the fourth century a wandering monk was drawn to Mogao by a vision of flashing lights. Believing the place holy, he scooped out a cave from the cliff and stayed.
Other monks came. More caves were excavated as temples and meditation halls, and their walls covered with paintings. Stucco sculptures of the Buddha, some very large, were created and painted to produce total decorative environments. The site became a magnet for pilgrimages, and a major center of learning with a vast library of handwritten manuscripts gathered from imperial China to the east, and India and beyond to the west.
In the 14th century, as trade shifted from land to sea routes, traffic dropped off; the number of monks diminished. At some point, a library of some 50,000 manuscripts was sealed up in a single cave for safety. Mogao's existence was forgotten. In the late 19th century, it was rediscovered, and starting in 1900 a succession of explorers -- from Europe, Russia, Japan, the United States -- arrived on the scene. They chipped paintings off walls and sent them home. They found the sealed library, divided it up and shipped most of it out. The Qing dynasty did nothing to prevent any of this.
It was only long after that, in the 1940s, that China fully reclaimed the caves and began restoring them. Over time, their mystique grew. In 1979, the year they were opened to the public, 20,000 visitors came. By the late 2000s, the annual count had soared to 800,000. By this time, the threat of damage to the paintings, through exposure to human-generated humidity and carbon dioxide, had become severe. Today, almost all the caves are closed.
To preserve Mogao as both a work of art and a tourist goal, archaeologists in charge of the site submitted a proposal to the Chinese government for a visitor center that would let people experience the caves with minimal access. The plan was approved. The visitor center, designed by the Beijing architect Cui Kai as a group of futuristic, dunelike domes, will open this year.
The operation will be carefully regulated. Visitors will come to the center, be shown a short film on the Silk Road history of Dunhuang, and then see immersive digital projections of several of the most elaborate cave interiors. They will then go a few miles by bus to Mogao, where they will see several real caves and spend time in a museum of Mogao artifacts -- portable sculptures, textiles, handwritten scrolls -- before returning to the center.
A selection of such objects will be at the China Institute Gallery in Manhattan beginning April 19 to kick off ''The Year of Dunhuang,'' a series of events geared to attracting Western attention, and dollars. Of the $52 million that the center will cost, $33 million is from the Chinese government; the rest must be raised independently.
This project is by no means the only example of digitally assisted conservation in China. A similar one was documented in a show called ''Echoes of the Past: The Buddhist Cave Temples of Xiangtangshan,'' which was organized by the Smart Museum of Art in Chicago in 2010. But Dunhuang holds a special place in China's cultural imagination. To care for it is to make amends for past neglect. Perhaps most important, to see the art of those caves in place at the desert's edge is a deep experience.
Will that experience be as intense with some digital intervention? And if so, how much is acceptable? As in matters of contemporary culture, China is asking questions, about both the nature of art and the function of museums, that we rarely consider. But with money for our own cultural institutions hard to come by; with billionaire vanity museums on the rise here too; and with a 21st-century museum audience addicted to seeing art through cellphone screens, China's long museological learning curve has much to teach us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHINA'S PAST: A visitor's center taking shape near Dunhuang is devoted to Buddhist art. (F1)
THE YEAR OF DUNHUANG: A replica of art from the Mogao caves, to be shown at the China Institute Gallery in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF DUNHUANG ACADEMY)
AT DESERT'S EDGE: For a millennium, caves near Dunhuang, at a central point on the Silk Road, drew Buddhist monks and pilgrims who left artworks and a library. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PERRY HU)
 OFFICIAL RECOGNITION: Inside the government-backed Shanghai Contemporary Art Museum, housed in a former power plant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); PAINTING (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); RELIGION (64%); DESERTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%) EAST CHINA (93%); GOBI DESERT (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) CHINA (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



658 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Enshrining Art With a Permanent, and Personal, Home

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
RIVALING earlier American moguls who built elaborate edifices to house their art collections, magnates of the 21st century are pouring their fortunes into founding their own ambitious museums.
The flurry of building in recent years includes Eli Broad's contemporary art museum in Los Angeles; the musical instruments museum in Phoenix founded by Robert J. Ulrich, the former Target chief executive and chairman; the H. Ross Perot family's science museum in Dallas; Alice Walton's Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Arkansas; and -- an early example of the trend -- Paul Allen's rock 'n' roll museum in Seattle, which opened in 2000.
The trend coincides with a modest rise in arts philanthropy, with support up an inflation-adjusted 1 percent last year, according to the most recent Giving USA report, prepared by the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University.
''We are a people who like making grand statements,'' said James R. Hackney, managing partner at Alexander Haas, an Atlanta-based fund-raising consultant to cultural institutions, ''and we are in a time where people have great wealth, like the golden age of the 1880s or the 1920s.'' 
The $13.2 billion given to the arts, culture and the humanities in 2011, the Giving USA report noted, was lifted by an $800 million Walton Family Foundation endowment for Crystal Bridges, ''the largest cash donation ever recorded to an art museum in the United States.''
Although only 4 percent of charitable giving goes to arts and other cultural groups, the attraction of leaving a legacy by founding a museum endures, said Robert Grimm, the director at the University of Maryland Center for Philanthropy and Nonprofit Leadership.
''Philanthropists today have been entrepreneurs and innovators in their fields, and they continue to want to be engaged and leave their mark,'' he said. ''Most people remember John D. Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie, because of the buildings and the 3,000 libraries, but few know who Julius Rosenwald was,'' Mr. Grimm said of the man who co-owned Sears, Roebuck & Company.
Rosenwald, despite his cultural philanthropy, left ''no physical symbol to remind us of his contributions,'' Mr. Grimm said. ''If there were, more people would probably know about him. If your name is on something, there is a tendency for it to be remembered.''
Today's museum builders say they are providing valuable cultural additions to communities, including some areas that have long been lacking in such institutions.
Yet there are critics of the practice. The phrase ''vanity project'' is sometimes associated with people who believe their collections are unique and should remain permanently intact in their own buildings. In addition, such museums can be a ''significant loss to the existing museum fabric'' by draining away money, said Barry Lord, co-founder of Lord Cultural Resources, a global museum consultant.
''But it's a whole different matter if the primary motivation is trying to focus attention on an area of art, rather than a cultural institution built only to draw attention to one collector's effort,'' he said.
Enshrining individual art collections in free-standing buildings had its heyday early last century with collectors like Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney, but it never completely died off. In 1961, the Amon Carter was opened in Fort Worth to house paintings by Frederic Remington and other noted American artists owned by Mr. Carter, a newspaper publisher. Other major collectors have given their art to existing institutions.
But a museum founder ''cuts a bigger swath and draws more recognition,'' said Mr. Lord, ''rather than having the art swallowed up in a larger institution and probably sitting in storage for most of the time.''
The cost can be daunting, said Mr. Lord, whose ''Manual of Museum Planning 2012'' advises would-be founders to calculate $800 to $1,000 a square foot to build a museum. And he warns that costs jump from there depending on factors like the thickness of walls.
''It's seldom less than an $80 million investment,'' Mr. Lord concluded, and requires a separate, often substantial, operating budget.
Despite this, the new museums are notable for grandeur.
For example, Crystal Bridges, designed by the architect Moshe Safdie, takes up 201,000 square feet on a 120-acre wooded site in Walmart's home base, Bentonville, Ark. At any one time, the museum displays 450 to 500 works by notable artists like Gilbert Stuart, George Bellows and Norman Rockwell.
The museum, which has an annual operating budget of $18 million, employs more than 125 people. In its first year, 2012, it had more than 600,000 visitors. Ms. Walton, whose $21 billion net worth makes her the eighth-richest person in the United States, according to 2012 Forbes calculations, has collected American art for more than two decades and chose her home area to provide a cultural institution in an area without one, she has said.
''At Crystal Bridges we share the story of America through outstanding artworks, in a setting that highlights the beauty of our region,'' she said. Her focus is to make the museum ''accessible to everyone,'' she added, so admission is free and school field trips, including buses and lunch, are paid for.
Neither Ross Perot, a donor to cultural, medical and educational causes, nor his family are noted collectors and the family ''had rarely put their name on anything,'' said Carolyn Perot Rathjen, one of Mr. Perot's five children and chairman of the board of the Perot Museum of Nature and Science. But Ms. Rathjen and her siblings -- their father is No. 113 on the Forbes wealthiest list -- put in $50 million for the $185 million museum, which opened last year.
''The content is very broad,'' said Ms. Rathjen of the exhibits, which include fossils and a solar system at the museum designed by Thom Mayne. ''So we saw this as offering great experience for the whole family, and for students coming here on field trips.''
Not all the museums are in hometowns. Mr. Ulrich, the former Target executive, lives mostly in Minneapolis, but he decided to found the Musical Instrument Museum in Phoenix, largely because of its tourist-friendly location.
''I was sitting in a cafe in Brussels, Belgium, after the third time I had seen the musical instruments museum there,'' he said, ''and I began talking to my friend about how we might create a museum that would include music from everywhere in the world and be totally unique. That was the challenge.''
Mr. Ulrich provided more than $100 million for the $250 million museum, which was designed by Richard Varda and opened in 2010. It displays some 5,000 instruments, both on loan and owned, and extends over 200,000 square feet on a 20-acre site.
''We do have treasures, but it's touching, playing and hearing these instruments that's the primary focus,'' he said. ''It's an experience of pure joy.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); FOUNDATIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHARITABLE GIVING (90%); PHILANTHROPY (90%); ART COLLECTING (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MAJOR GIFTS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (57%); MUSIC (57%)

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (63%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (63%)

PERSON: ELI BROAD (57%); ROBERT J ULRICH (56%); JAY ROCKEFELLER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



659 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: The Lens Rises in Stature

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
ON a recent wintry afternoon, Jeff Rosenheim, the newly appointed head of the Metropolitan Museum of Art's photography department, stopped in at its special exhibition galleries. He was checking on the installation of a new acquisition: a 61-minute video called ''Street,'' by the British-born artist James Nares.
As brilliantly colored images splashed across a 16-foot-long screen, teams of art handlers and curators were placing photographs, drawings, sculptures and paintings in adjacent galleries. ''This is exactly what we're trying to do,'' Mr. Rosenheim said, ''to show photography in the context of many different kinds of art.''
Douglas Eklund, a photography curator who was also on hand for the installation that day, chimed in: ''Photography has always been on a long road. But now it's out of the ghetto.'' 
The Met exhibition, called ''Street'' like the video, opened on March 5 and includes a United Nations' worth of art and objects dating from 3000 B.C. to 1987, chosen by Mr. Nares from the Met's permanent collection.
Everything in some way illustrates the energy and dynamism of street life. There is a Mesopotamian sculpture of a walking figure and an ancient Egyptian limestone relief from the reign of Akhenaten, depicting the king and his courtiers. There are also paintings, drawings and sculptures by artists like Messerschmidt, Goya and Degas, as well as work by contemporary artists including Alberto Giacometti, Franz Kline, Jackson Pollock and Philip Guston. Photography is central to the show too, with images by masters like Berenice Abbott, Diane Arbus, Henri Cartier-Bresson and Robert Frank.
''Street,'' on view through May 27, crosses curatorial divides in new ways for an institution like the Met, having been organized by Mr. Eklund, the photography curator, and Ian Alteveer, associate curator in the department of modern and contemporary art.
It is just one of countless examples of the kinds of exhibitions being organized by museum photography departments across the country at a time when a large number of new photography curators have taken the helm at major museums.
This recently appointed crop is not a bunch of 20-somethings. They are all seasoned professionals, mostly in their 40s or early 50s, and they are approaching the medium differently than their predecessors. Where the curator of 20 or 30 years ago struggled to be recognized, this generation no longer has to fight to be heard. Museum directors are realizing that photography exhibitions attract crowds, particularly the young audiences they covet, so they are giving more attention and space to the medium than ever before.
In years past, the Met's photography department would never have considered showing a video, let alone acquiring one as it did ''Street.''
''We started collecting videos when they have an organic relationship to photography,'' said Mr. Rosenheim, who was promoted to run the Met's photography department in September. Explaining the connection of ''Street'' to the medium, he noted that unlike films with a traditional story line, the video -- like a series of photographs -- has no narrative to follow, allowing viewers to dip in and out at random.
The giant screen, at the entrance to the special exhibition galleries for prints, drawings and photographs, stops visitors with the video's hypnotic street scenes around Manhattan. The high-definition colors make everything look more real than real. There are children of varying ages and street vendors; tourists and businessmen traversing different parts of the city; there's a gritty shot of Broadway one moment and bustling Columbus Circle the next; the mash-up of crowds on the sidewalks of Lower Manhattan, the statuesque buildings along Park Avenue.
Over a week in September 2011, Mr. Nares shot 16 hours of video around the city. He then distilled his film into the 61-minute artwork, purposely slowing down the action.
''We can be far more experimental now,'' Mr. Rosenheim said. ''For so long we were fighting just to have a wall.''
In December his department was one of only two singled out for praise at the museum's annual acquisitions dinner, for having recently added 36 dye transfer prints by William Eggleston, now on view in its photography galleries. The department is also responsible for ''After Photoshop: Manipulated Photography in the Digital Age,'' on view through May 27, and next month it will open ''Photography and the American Civil War,'' a large exhibition featuring 200 photographs from the Met's collection. There are also photographs in the museum's current blockbuster, ''Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity.''
While the Met's photography department is not the oldest in the country, Mr. Rosenheim said, its holdings are extensive and encyclopedic. The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, is reputed to have started collecting first, in 1924, when Alfred Stieglitz gave it 27 photographs. Over the years Stieglitz helped the Met establish its collection too. His first gift to the Met was in 1928, but surprisingly, it did not establish a separate photography department until 1992. (The Boston museum still groups photographs with prints and drawings.)
Other major museums have similarly embraced photography, some sooner than others. Although the Museum of Modern Art is younger than the Met, it started putting together its collection in 1930, a year after its founding -- and a decade later the museum established a separate photography department. It now has a world-class collection of modern and contemporary works.
Some institutions, however, find themselves playing catch-up. At the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, whose photography department was founded in 1983, Britt Salvesen, the curator of photography, prints and drawings, said that 30 years ago its collection had fewer than 3,000 images; today it has some 15,000.
Now the museum is increasing both the amount of space it provides for photography and its acquisitions. Ms. Salvesen reports that from 2002 through 2006 it devoted about 37,000 square feet to the subject. With photo exhibitions increasing markedly since, the museum in 2012 alone had photo-based art on view in 46,000 square feet of gallery space.
The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art not only has a world-renowned photography collection built over the last 78 years, it also has a consistently robust exhibition schedule, like its current show, devoted to the street photographer Garry Winogrand, which opened this month.
Nearby, the de Young museum, part of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, is trying to build a different kind of photo collection, concentrating on the work of local artists. While the museum is going through a difficult time -- it has recently had many staff departures and is currently without a director -- its chief curator, Julian Cox, happens to be a photography expert.
''There's a hungry audience of people who want to see photography shows,'' said Mr. Cox, who wears two hats; he is both the de Young's chief curator and head of the photography department for the fine arts museums.
The reason for photography's popularity, he said, is simple: ''It's accessible.''
The need for accessibility is not lost on officials at the Morgan Library and Museum, which hired its first photography curator last year. It has come especially late to the party, having mounted its first photography show only in 2008 -- an exhibition of Irving Penn's portraits.
''Photography relates to the history of books and of so much else here,'' said William M. Griswold, director of the Morgan. ''We're hoping this will be an opportunity to introduce a new audience to a whole range of what we do.''
Joel Smith, the new curator, who ran the photography department at the Princeton University Art Museum before coming to the Morgan, said his mission was to integrate photography with the rest of the museum's collection. His first show, opening next January, called ''A Collective Invention,'' will explore ''a wide range of the camera's exploits including astronomy, sports, news, art, criminology and the documenting of everyday life,'' he said.
Mr. Smith, along with his colleagues across the country, is keenly aware that photography has changed drastically over the years, becoming more and more ingrained in everyday life through the Internet and Photoshop, smartphones and devices like iPads.
''Now everyone's a photographer,'' he said. ''It's part of the language of what we do. All you have to do is walk down the street. And with Facebook or Tumblr there are infinite possibilities. But museums should be devoted to the original thing. That will continue to give the public a reason to see what's here.''
Quentin Bajac, who recently arrived from the Pompidou Center in Paris to run the Museum of Modern Art's photography department, had a somewhat different take on the way the Internet has changed things.
''We're in a time when there are too many photographs online,'' he said. ''We have to help people learn to swim in that new ocean of images.'' He sees his mission as ''educating the eye.''
Although Mr. Bajac has yet to curate his first show at MoMA, he signaled an approach different from the one seen in the exhibition currently on view: ''Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light.'' While such monographic exhibitions are important, Mr. Bajac said, ''I'm thinking of photography within a far broader context -- with film and painting, architecture and drawing -- making connections that show it to be equal in status with all the arts.''
Ms. Salvesen of the Los Angeles museum says she believes this generation of curators approach the medium with a broader outlook in part as a response to the way artists are using photography. ''You can't draw boundaries anymore,'' she said.
Katherine Bussard, an associate photography curator at the Art Institute of Chicago, who is taking over for Mr. Smith at Princeton in April, agrees. She has been at work on two exhibitions that she hopes push the envelope.
One, now at the Milwaukee Art Museum, is called ''Color Rush: 75 Years of Color Photography in America'' and uses images from magazines, advertisements and photojournalists to explore the history of color images from 1907 to 1981.
The second, opening at the Art Institute of Chicago in October 2014, is ''The City Dynamic: Representing Crisis and Renewal in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles,'' which explores the American city of the 1960s and '70s through its political upheavals, shifting urban demographics, economics and culture. She is hoping it will travel to Princeton in February 2015.
''The exhibition focuses on how photography was used by architects, filmmakers, artists, urban planners and activists to project images of the future city to the public and to frame stakes of urban transformation in these three different cities for different artistic and political ends,'' she said.
''It's an interesting moment,'' Ms. Bussard added. ''Earlier generations were struggling to have photography taken seriously. We're way past that now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'STREET': Visitors watched the James Nares video at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (F1)
NEWLY ACQUIRED: A 1980 dye-transfer print by William Eggleston, on view at the Met. Left, a still from the Fritz Lang film ''Metropolis,'' part of an exhibition at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EGGLESTON ARTISTIC TRUST
LOS ANGELES COUNTY MUSEUM OF ART)
'CIVIL WAR': An 1860 campaign medal from a coming Met exhibition. (PHOTOGRAPH BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART)
CURATORS: From left, Quentin Bajac of MoMA
Katherine Bussard, the Art Institute of Chicago
Joel Smith, the Morgan Library and Museum
Britt Salvesen, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art
 and Jeff Rosenheim, the Met. 'BAIE DES ANGES, FRANCE': A 1959 print in the Museum of Modern Art. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION DAVID DECHMAN AND MICHEL MECURE, 2012 BILL BRANDT ARCHIVE LTD) (F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); ART INSTITUTE OF CHICAGO (59%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (89%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



660 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: The Particular Puzzles of Being a Small Museum

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
ON a recent Sunday afternoon, 13 people gathered outside the Merchant's House Museum on East Fourth Street in Manhattan. Each had paid $15 for a guided tour of the surrounding NoHo neighborhood, once a tony section of the city. Their guide: an expert from the museum.
The neighborhood tour is just one of the ways the Merchant's House's longtime director, Pi Gardiner, has sought to raise funds and build audiences for the museum, housed in an elegant town house that belonged to the Seabury Tredwell family for three generations until 1933. 
The museum holds an annual Valentine's Day concert of 19th century Romantic music, and Ms. Gardiner ran an annual New York City oyster festival until the city banned the sale of alcohol at street fairs some years back. ''You can't serve oysters with milk,'' Ms. Gardiner said ruefully during an interview at the museum.
Ms. Gardiner's efforts reflect the pressure that small museums are under to build attendance, especially in the fragile aftermath of the recession. From promotional efforts via Twitter to city walks, they are seeking to encourage what experts now call ''museuming,'' or spending time with an institution whether in person or online.
But the challenges are plentiful. ''Some museums are owned by municipalities and counties, and sometimes that lower level of government is the first to cut spending,'' said Michael DiPaolo, former president of the 500-member Small Museum Association and now executive director of the Lewes Historical Society in Delaware. ''A museum is not as essential as trash collection or utilities.''
And so, as student field trips fall victim to budget cutbacks, private donors are stepping in to help. Target, the giant retailer, encourages teachers to apply for money to finance such excursions.
Small museums in areas of robust tourism are far less vulnerable than others. Rising tourism in New York, where attendance at the Metropolitan Museum of Art jumped to 6.28 million in the year ended June 2012 from 5.7 million the previous year, helped increase attendance at the Merchant's House Museum as well.
But many small museums cannot count on a general tourist influx to lift visitor numbers. At the Brandywine River Museum in Chadds Ford, Pa., home to the work of the Wyeth family, the new director, Tom Padon, wants to expand public programs for visitors to increase annual attendance, which has held steady at 120,000 in recent years.
To attract younger audiences, he is planning, among other things, to commission artists for site-specific installations around the museum, which sits on 120 acres where the studios of N. C. Wyeth and Andrew Wyeth are also situated.
''Having an artist come here and work would create a lot of interest in the museum,'' he said. ''Contemporary artists responding to the landscape will amplify what is unique here.'' Mr. Padon also envisions a network of walking trails that highlight the landscape.
Some geographically challenged museums are taking their shows on the road. The Storm King Art Center, a 500-acre sculpture park in the Hudson Valley that is not particularly accessible from Manhattan, last year organized an exhibit at another location: ''Mark di Suvero at Governors Island: Presented by Storm King Art Center.'' The island is just a five-minute ferry ride from Manhattan.
''It helped make Storm King more visible,'' said John P. Stern, who has been president of the sculpture park since 2008. To make the trip from Manhattan easier, the park also has doubled the number of daily buses it provides from the city. Since 2008, attendance has nearly doubled to just over 80,000 last year.
Smaller museums are particularly focused on how much to charge for admission. With costs going up and budgets limited, raising entry prices would seem to be a natural strategy. But local museums, particularly on college campuses, do not always have that luxury. At the Michael C. Carlos Museum at Emory University in Atlanta, admissions for students and professors are free, as is the case at many college museums. Nonstudent visitors must pay $8, although Elizabeth Hornor, the museum's director of education, said she wished admission could be free for everyone.
Some museums focus more on paid memberships than on admission prices. At the Lewes Historical Society in Delaware, membership prices -- $35 for a family to visit the society's 12 historic properties -- have held steady for the last eight or 10 years, said Mr. DiPaolo. ''In some ways, membership is an easier sell than asking for donations,'' he said. ''It is more tangible.''
Several museum directors agreed that maintaining the loyalty of a committed local audience is the first order of business for a small museum to weather a tough economy. ''Within your community, your goal is to attract a core audience,'' said Mark Walhimer, an exhibition design and museum planner. ''The first audience you should speak to is your own.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); FESTIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); HISTORY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SCHOOL FIELD TRIPS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MUSIC (69%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



661 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Museums; MUSEUMS SPECIAL SECTION; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: In Rome Exhibition, a Poem to New York

BYLINE: By TED LOOS

 BODY:
NEW York's role as the ruling city of the art world has held steady since at least the middle of the 20th century. Next month, a new exhibition about the city's ever-growing and constantly shifting art scene is opening in the capital of a much older empire: Rome.
''Empire State,'' featuring the work of more than 25 New York artists, opens in Rome's Palazzo delle Esposizioni on April 22 and runs until July 21. There are no plans as yet for it to be shown in New York.
Perhaps the most representative work is Keith Edmier's ''Penn Station Ciborium'' (2013), a soaring steel sculpture commissioned for ''Empire State'' that imagines a mashup of the lost New York landmark and St. Peter's Basilica. 
An intergenerational theme runs through the show, paralleling the relationship between the ancient and modern capital cities, and the Palazzo's neo-Classical galleries will offer a mix of established names and new blood. Long-heralded artists in the exhibition include Julian Schnabel and Dan Graham, and they will be interspersed with younger and lesser-known artists like Tabor Robak and Shadi Habib Allah.
''We're not trying to say these are the 25 best artists,'' said one of the show's co-curators, Norman Rosenthal, adding that the exhibition was not definitive in nature. ''It doesn't intend to be a dictionary. It's more like our poem about New York.''
The intergenerational element comes naturally, given the curatorial duo behind the show. Mr. Rosenthal, 69, is the seasoned pro who was the director of the prestigious Royal Academy of Art in London for more than 30 years. He's best known for organizing the much-discussed 1997 show ''Sensation.''
His collaborator, Alex Gartenfeld, 26, plays the role of wunderkind. Mr. Gartenfeld has been, until recently, a freelance curator and an online editor for Art in America and Interview, though he just became curator for the Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami.
Mr. Gartenfeld said he saw the show's goal as no less than ''busting open the canon of what a New York artist is.''
He added: ''Instead of just celebrating a city, I hope it's an exhibition that questions what it is to be an art center today, and what sort of cultural cachet a city wields by having these art institutions. I think a lot of cities, Rome included, are thinking about what it means to be a contemporary art center. That's where empire becomes this very relevant theme.''
''Empire State'' was conceived as the first in a series of city-themed exhibitions by the leadership of the Palazzo della Esposizioni, which is Rome's largest art venue. Mr. Rosenthal, who is based in London and sits on the museum's board, offered to tackle New York as the debut show.
Mr. Rosenthal said that he wanted to avoid a diffuse ''biennial syndrome'' in the show, while still displaying the diversity of the art scene.
''It has had its ups and downs, but I still believe that New York is still the greatest art-creating place in the world,'' he said. ''I'm not just saying Manhattan -- I've also become incredibly familiar with Bushwick and other places. I'd never heard of Bushwick two years ago.''
It was precisely that unfamiliarity with the outer reaches of Brooklyn that led Mr. Rosenthal to take on Mr. Gartenfeld as a partner. The two had met at a party and become friendly.
''We have different bases in a way,'' Mr. Gartenfeld said. ''I think we agree on things, and we tend to like the same things, but we come at it from very different places and we have different artists who we've worked with.''
The curators logged more than 150 studio visits in multiple boroughs over two years. ''One of my pet peeves is curators talking about how many studio visits they made,'' Mr. Gartenfeld said. ''But it was the amount of time we spent at each one that mattered, sometimes two or three hours.''
Neither curator knew the photographer and filmmaker Moyra Davey, but a visit to her apartment studio yielded a work for the show, ''Les Goddesses'' (2011). ''A big part of that video is being isolated in your studio and looking out on the city,'' Mr. Gartenfeld said.
Mr. Rosenthal said that only two of the artists they invited to participate in the show declined.
Both curators leveraged their existing networks. Mr. Gartenfeld was eager to include the works of John Miller, who is known for environments combining sculpture and paintings. His installation ''Mokup'' (2013) includes wallpaper made from a close-up photograph of crumpled-up trash.
''His work has always been about changing urban circumstance, where the urban paradigm becomes the suburban paradigm,'' Mr. Gartenfeld said.
Mr. Rosenthal championed Jeff Koons early in the artist's career, and the two have remained friends, so he was a natural addition to ''Empire State.''
Mr. Koons, whose studio is in Manhattan, happened to be working on something he calls ''The Antiquity Series,'' with explicit riffs on classical art, so including three pieces from the series was an easy dovetail with ''Empire State.''
''My art makes reference to other art works,'' Mr. Koons said. ''And this parallels humanity, people referencing other people. These references are in our DNA.''
Mr. Koons said his sculpture in the show, the shiny turquoise ''Metallic Venus,'' made out of polished stainless steel, is a ''takeoff on Praxetelies,'' the ancient Greek sculptor known for his white marble figures.
He added that the mix of artists in the exhibition appealed to him. ''Wade Guyton will be sharing the space,'' Mr. Koons said of his gallery in the Palazzo. ''I'm thrilled about that -- it's a great juxtaposition.''
The theme of ''Empire State'' theme is not always strictly geographical, in that some of the artists don't actually live there.
The photographer LaToya Ruby Frazier is based in New Jersey, and much of her work deals with the economic upheavals of her hometown, Braddock, Pa.
The exhibition features six of her gelatin silver prints, five of which are from her series ''The Grey Area,'' showing the bitter end of the industrial era in Braddock. The other depicts a downtown Manhattan billboard for Levi's, featuring an ad campaign that used Braddock as its backdrop.
Ms. Frazier said she thought that, beyond the location of the billboard, her strongest thematic link to ''Empire State'' was that her photographs were included in last year's biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art.
New York's penchant for getting noticed everywhere suited Ms. Frazier's purposes perfectly. ''For the first time, my Biennial work gave my hometown a huge visibility,'' she said. ''That was like a megaphone for people who have been overlooked by the media.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (90%); HOLY SEE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



662 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Reaching Those on the Wrong Side of the Digital Divide

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
THE Advertising Council and Connect2Compete, a nonprofit group whose goal is to eliminate the digital divide in the United States, are introducing a public service campaign to help those who are not digitally literate find free training to obtain these skills.
In remarks prepared for a speech in Washington last month about Connect2Compete's efforts, the Federal Communications Commission chairman, Julius Genachowski, said approximately one in three Americans, or 100 million people, still do not have broadband in their homes, with low-income Americans and minorities ''disproportionately on the wrong side of the digital divide.'' 
This matters, he continued, because ''over 80 percent of Fortune 500 companies post job openings exclusively online. Over half of today's jobs require technology skills, and nearly 80 percent of jobs in the next decade are projected to require digital skills.''
According to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, one in five American adults -- about 62 million people -- do not use the Internet. The 2012 Pew Internet and American Life Project said the main reason these people ''don't go online is because they don't think the Internet is relevant to them.''
To reach adults who share this sentiment, Connect2Compete approached the Advertising Council last year for help creating a public service campaign ''with messages that get at the relevance of the Internet, how you can do something, or do something better that you may already do, by being online,'' said Zach Leverenz, chief executive of Connect2Compete.
To that end, the Ad Council and the New York office of Young & Rubicam, part of the WPP Group, created a multimedia advertising campaign that begins on Thursday, a date chosen because its numbers (3-21) stand for a three-two-one countdown to get ''everyone on'' the Internet. The campaign's Web site is EveryoneOn.org.
Advertising being distributed by the Ad Council includes a TV spot featuring Reginald, an actual truck driver from California whose instructor shows him how to use a computer, get on the Internet, and buy a plane ticket as a surprise for his wife. ''She's going to love me all over again now,'' he says. The spot concludes, ''But first, he's going to surprise himself. Get online. Find a free class near you.''
Radio ads feature actors portraying individuals who do not know how to use the Internet. One is a man named Peter, whose instructor shows him how to look for electrician jobs online. The voice-over says, ''This is Peter. Recently he got help going on the Internet for the first time to look for a new job. In the past, Peter's gotten work through people he knew. But he heard there were more jobs online.''
One outdoor ad features a row of people -- resembling paper doll cutouts -- holding hands; the text says ''1 in 5 Americans don't use the Internet. Luckily help is all around.''
Once the audience for all advertising -- which is running in both English and Spanish -- calls the toll-free number, they are asked for their ZIP code and given the location of free training classes nearby. Class information is also available via texting. In addition, the campaign's Web site locates classes -- which are being offered by over 21,000 libraries and other centers -- by ZIP code.
The advertising being introduced on Thursday was preceded this month by related digital advertising and Facebook and Twitter outreach, directed at those who are already digitally literate and encouraging them to help those who are not.
Cheryl Chapman, a creative director at Young & Rubicam in New York, said the agency ''knew we couldn't scare people into using the Internet, so we wanted the advertising to feel disarming, to capture the real emotion of learning something new.''
According to Dzu Bui, campaign director of the Advertising Council, the campaign is directed primarily at adults who are not digitally literate, ''since they are the ones who have control over accessing the Internet, they are the decision makers, they make choices for their families.''
Peggy Conlon, president and chief executive of the Ad Council, said the goal of the campaign -- the group's first to address digital literacy issues -- was to ''overcome the barriers people have to going online.''
She also predicted media outlets -- which donate time and space to run all Ad Council advertising -- might be motivated to carry this campaign, because it could ''help increase their audiences. An informed citizenry is a stronger citizenry. There are many reasons this is good for everybody.''
Experts differed about the campaign and its strategy.
Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor who teaches the economics of information at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management, called the campaign's goals ''on target,'' since, he said, the median wage of Americans today is lower than it was 15 years ago, in part because they have ''not kept up with digital technologies.''
Ruth Small, director of the Center for Digital Literacy at Syracuse University, commended the campaign for addressing specific subjects that interest people, like job hunting.
Although Dan Wagner, Unesco chair in learning and literacy at the graduate school of education of the University of Pennsylvania, said ''anything that helps people, especially the poor, get access to technology is good,'' he called creating relevant content for those who are not digitally literate just as important as showing them how to get online.
James McQuivey, who follows consumer technology adoption for Forrester Research, questioned the campaign's prospects. ''I don't think it will have the impact they want it to have because most people who are not connected to the Internet are not there by choice. It's not that these people are sitting and waiting for the Internet and can't get it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A TV spot features a truck driver whose instructor shows him how to use a computer to buy a plane ticket for his wife. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); RADIO ADVERTISING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); BROADBAND (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING COUNCIL (93%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (57%); NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS & INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (53%); WPP (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



663 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Favors Easing Part Of Newly Passed Gun Law

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN and DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- In the wake of the elementary school massacre in Newtown, Conn., Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York pushed through the State Legislature gun control measures that included not only a tougher assault weapons ban but also a tighter restriction on the maximum legal capacity of gun magazines.
But after weeks of criticism from gun owners, Mr. Cuomo said on Wednesday that he would seek to ease the restriction, which he said had proved unworkable even before it was scheduled to take effect on April 15. 
The gun-control law, approved in January, banned the sale of magazines that hold more than seven rounds of ammunition. But, Mr. Cuomo said Wednesday, seven-round magazines are not widely manufactured. And, although the new gun law provided an exemption for the use of 10-round magazines at firing ranges and competitions, it did not provide a legal way for gun owners to purchase such magazines.
As a result, he said, he and legislative leaders were negotiating language that would continue to allow the sale of magazines holding up to 10 rounds, but still forbid New Yorkers from loading more than 7 rounds into those magazines.
''There is no such thing as a seven-bullet magazine,'' Mr. Cuomo said at a news conference. ''That doesn't exist. So you really have no practical option.''
The development came as the governor and the legislative leaders announced Wednesday night that they had reached a tentative agreement on the state budget for the fiscal year that begins on April 1, though they released few details. The leaders have agreed to increase the state's minimum wage to $9 an hour by 2016 and to allow municipalities to defer some of their pension costs into the future.
The deal also includes an extension of a higher tax bracket for the state's top earners, paired with a package of middle-class and business tax cuts.
''You can't bring down all the taxes,'' the governor said Wednesday night, adding, ''Some taxes go up, some taxes go down.''
Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, a leading business trade group, expressed concern, saying that ''raising taxes on the people who contribute most to the state's economy and revenues is not the right message to send to businesses looking to grow and invest in New York.''
Several contentious issues are still being negotiated, including a plan to reduce low-level marijuana arrests stemming from police stops in New York City. The governor and his staff also said that a final figure had not been reached for cuts to the State Office for People with Developmental Disabilities, though they will not be as steep as what the governor originally proposed.
But the decision to change the gun magazine restriction overshadowed the budget announcement.
Even after allowing the sale of 10-round magazines, New York's law would still be among the strongest in the country. Only three other states -- California, Hawaii and Massachusetts -- and the District of Columbia have a 10-round magazine limit, according to the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.
Limits on magazines remain a major goal of advocates of gun control -- on Wednesday, Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado signed into law a ban in that state on magazines that hold more than 15 rounds.
Gun control advocates were divided over the modification to the new legislation.
Assemblywoman Michelle Schimel, a Long Island Democrat and a chairwoman of the New York chapter of State Legislators Against Illegal Guns, noted that key portions of the law -- like an expanded ban on assault weapons -- were not being changed.
''This is still a robust bill,'' she said, calling it ''still a model for the rest of the country, without a doubt.''
But Richard M. Aborn, the president of the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City, described the concerns from gun owners about a scarcity of seven-round magazines as ''a manufactured crisis.''
''I think the governor and the Legislature got it right the first time,'' Mr. Aborn said, adding, ''We don't want to have to tell the mother of a young man who's just been shot and killed that he was killed with the ninth bullet.''
Gun rights advocates had complained that seven-round magazines were not widely available.
The magazine restriction ''was probably going to be a de facto handgun ban in New York,'' said Jake McGuigan, who directs state affairs for the National Shooting Sports Foundation, a firearms industry trade group.
Gun rights advocates continue to believe the entire gun-control package should be repealed. Stephen J. Aldstadt, president of the Shooters Committee on Political Education, a New York group, described the amendment as ''the most asinine thing I've ever heard.''
''Any person who is going to go commit a mass shooting like Columbine or Sandy Hook is certainly not going to pay attention to a law restricting magazines to seven rounds,'' he said. ''The only people who would possibly obey that law are legal gun owners, and they're not your problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo in Albany. He said he wants to make a change to a gun law and also announced a tentative budget deal. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (95%); FIREARMS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAX LAW (75%); BUDGETS (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAX RELIEF (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); TAX INCREASES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); CANNABIS (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (50%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



664 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED GUEST COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: The Kids Left Behind By the Boom

BYLINE: By MARIE ARANA. 
Marie Arana, a journalist, an adviser to the librarian of Congress and the author, most recently, of ''Bolívar: American Liberator,'' is a guest columnist. Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
Lima, Peru
Henrry Ochochoque is a jovial 12-year-old with a report card full of A's and hopes pointed straight to the moon. Last year, he moved from the squalid gold-mining town of La Rinconada, Peru -- at nearly 17,000 feet above sea level, the highest human habitation in the world -- to the bustling hive of Juliaca, roughly the size of Buffalo, where schools are better, a water spigot sits across the road and his widowed mother awaits a brighter future.
On a reporting trip last year, I'd heard his mother say she wanted to take the family down-mountain to safer ground. This year, I found them in a new home, not far from the shimmering waters of Lake Titicaca. For a child who once inhabited the ice and rock of an Andean promontory, with no clean water, no sanitation, in a mercury- and cyanide-laced mudhole riddled with whorehouses, raw sewage and AIDS, Henrry seemed to be on his way up. 
But statistics tell us he is not. They say Henrry is too small for his age, and indeed he is: 4 foot 2, as tall as an average American 8-year-old. Statistics also say he is undernourished, anemic, with a brain slowed by toxic chemicals and an education that will leave him drastically unprepared for the 21st century.
Even as Peru, newly classified by the World Bank as an ''upper-middle-income economy,'' races to prosperity, indigenous children like Henrry are being left behind. Why? Because, as in neighboring countries like Bolivia and Colombia, the growing economy has left a wide gap between haves and have-nots.
Make no mistake: Peru is booming. Largely spared by the global financial crisis, its economy grew by 9.8 percent in 2008, 6.3 percent last year. Peru is an enviable fount of gold, silver, copper, fish, agriculture. Its capital is alive with foreign investment. Its cuisine is among the most celebrated in the world. Visit Lima, and you see a city abuzz with shops, restaurants and a robust new middle class. Visit Cuzco or Machu Picchu, and you cannot help but note the five-star destinations.
But look around more, and you see two Perus: effervescent Lima, 9 and a half million strong, and the 20 million more who live outside it. While the poverty rate in Lima fell to 15.7 percent in 2011 from 44.8 percent in 2004, the rural Andes and Amazon languish in nearly feudal conditions. According to the World Bank, a citizen of Lima earns 21 times more than a resident of the outback, where the rural poverty rate is a staggering 54 percent. To make matters worse, it is a starkly racial problem: the poor are the dark-skinned indigenous, the rich, getting richer, are mostly white.
This tale of two nations is all the more vexing if you happen to be Henrry's age: 78 percent of Peru's indigenous children live in poverty. A third of all rural children suffer chronic malnutrition. More than 70 percent in the Puno region have anemia before age 3. A 2012 study found more than 75 percent of adults tested for mercury poisoning in the Madre de Dios region registered triple the danger levels; their children presumably were exposed to the same danger.
The irony is that those who inhabit poor regions live on the very ground that is fueling the Peruvian bonanza. Mining is the country's most lucrative industry, and mining firms from Canada, Australia and the United States have been rushing to dig out precious metals. Children like Henrry are hardly better off for it. They start work as early as 5. If they attend school, they do so for only a few years and in Spanish -- not Quechua or Aymara, the languages spoken at home. Caught in a cycle of ignorance, marginalized by nothing so much as geography, they live out the old 19th-century cliché that Peru is a beggar sitting on a bench of gold.
This makes for a tale not only sad but also dangerous. Peru's most rabid insurrections took seed precisely in the rural highlands. Túpac Amaru II, an indigenous leader after whom a two-decade socialist insurgency was later named, rose up outside Cuzco in the 1700s; Rumi Maqui in Puno in 1915; the Shining Path in Ayacucho in the 1980s. Last year, the Aymara people raided the city of Puno to protest the incursion of foreign mines and the pollution of their sacred Lake Titicaca. Last month there were no fewer than 71 riots in the mineral-rich provinces of Ancash, Apurímac and Puno.
''It's the only way we can get attention,'' says León Isaac Quispe, a sociologist working for the poor. ''We are the rump-end of the country. We have no support from government. Corruption is endemic.''
He added: ''No one helps. No one educates. No one listens to us here without a march.''
For Henrry, despite his A's and sunny optimism, the Peruvian boom may as well be on the moon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOLD MINING (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (86%); CHILDREN (76%); CYANIDES (72%); POVERTY RATES (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); LAKES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (69%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); RESTAURANTS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PERU (94%); COLOMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BOLIVIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



665 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: As Senate Passes Spending Measure, Stark Budget Views Are on Display in House

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS and JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate passed a spending measure on Wednesday to keep the government financed through the end of September, resolving one contentious budget fight as Congress moved quickly to the next.
While the Senate dealt with the most immediate financial concerns, the House of Representatives engaged in an animated debate over the budget for the 2014 fiscal year that begins when the spending measure expires Sept. 30.
The irreconcilable views that the two parties hold on economics, public spending and the role of government could not have been in starker conflict. As House Republicans moved ahead with their latest attempt to dismantle President Obama's health care overhaul -- they voted on one measure that would do so on Wednesday and will vote on another on Thursday -- Democrats were holding a news conference in the basement of the Capitol heralding the third anniversary of the law's passage. 
It was a day when members took to the microphones on the floor to make excessively partisan sound bites that seemed scripted for campaign commercials. Each side staged its own moments of political theater, forcing and casting votes designed to embarrass the other.
House Republicans brought to a vote the budget proposed last week by Senate Democrats in the hope that they could divide their opponents' ranks and put them on record supporting its $1 trillion in tax increases. In the end, 35 Democrats voted against it and 11 did not vote at all. (Voting yes were 154 of them.)
Democrats then voted ''present'' en masse instead of ''no'' on a Republican budget amendment offered by the most conservative members, a move that meant the measure went down overwhelmingly with Republican no votes, highlighting an internal party divide on spending levels.
The two parties spent much of the afternoon debating the budgets proposed by their most ideological members.
On one side was the plan put forward by the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which would cut Pentagon spending to 2006 levels, impose a new tax on millionaires, eliminate tax subsidies for oil and gas companies and bolster unemployment insurance.
On the other side was the budget drafted by the Republican Study Committee, which comprised the House's most conservative members. Their plan would open the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve to oil drilling, raise the eligibility age for Social Security and Medicare to 70 and balance the budget in four short years instead of the 10 proposed by Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, the Republican's leader on fiscal issues.
The debate was littered with evocative metaphors, portents of doom and allegations of theft. There was even a clash over which party could be compared more unflatteringly to Europe.
Representative Barbara Lee, Democrat of California, got clever with the nickname of the Ryan budget, which Republicans have called ''The Pathway to Prosperity.'' Noting its cuts to aid programs designed to help the less privileged, Ms. Lee suggested a name she said was more appropriate: ''The Pathway to Poverty.''
Adding a liberal twist to a favorite line among Republicans that no family would run its budget the way the federal government does, Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, mocked the Republican approach. ''I don't know any family in America that would use their children's lunch money to pay down their credit cards,'' he said.
Representative Tom McClintock, Republican of California, said the Democrats' budget included so much new spending that it would relegate the United States to a fate similar to Greece or, perhaps worse, Detroit.
Representative Todd Rokita, Republican of Indiana, likened the higher taxes the Democrats have proposed to confiscation of citizens' property. The debt their budget would incur, he said, was tantamount to stealing. ''When you take money from future generations, when you take money from people that don't yet exist, with no intention to pay it back,'' he said, ''it's called thievery.''
While Republicans repeatedly made parallels between the Democratic budget and the same policies that have crushed the economies of Spain, Italy and now Cyprus, Democrats were not to be outdone. Representative Chris Van Hollen of Maryland the senior Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said what was truly European was the austerity included in the Republican plan.
As the House was voting, the Senate by a vote of 73-26 passed a spending measure that caps spending for programs within Congress's annual discretion at $984 billion. The House is expected to pass the measure as soon as Thursday, eliminating any current threat of a government shutdown.
The final Senate bill did ease the hit of the automatic cuts known as sequestration somewhat, especially those that could hurt vulnerable Democrats. For instance, an amendment adopted Wednesday transferred $55 million to federal meat and poultry inspectors from other agriculture programs to make sure food plants can stay in operation, a plan championed by Senator Mark Pryor, an Arkansas Democrat facing re-election next year.
Another amendment shifted money to hard-hit tuition assistance programs for military service members, a push championed by Senator Kay Hagan of North Carolina, another swing-state Democrat up for re-election.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Paul D. Ryan (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); MEDICARE (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAX LAW (77%); THEATER (75%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (75%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); TAX INCREASES (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (61%); OIL EXTRACTION (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); ANNIVERSARIES (53%); WILDLIFE (50%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); BARBARA LEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ARCTIC (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



666 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: With Set-Aside, Deutsche Bank Cuts 2012 Profit

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
8:34 p.m. | Updated
FRANKFURT -- Deutsche Bank on Wednesday revised its 2012 profit sharply downward as it set aside more money to cover the potential cost of legal proceedings. 
Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest lender, allocated an additional 600 million euros ($775 million) to cover its legal costs, a move that reduced its pretax profit for 2012 by the same amount. As a result, net profit for the year was 291 million euros ($376 million), about 400 million euros ($517 million) less than the bank reported on Jan. 31.
Like many big European institutions, Deutsche Bank faces a long list of legal woes.
It is dealing with numerous lawsuits related to its sales of mortgages and mortgage-related derivatives in the United States before the financial crisis. Ronald Weichert, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, cited those suits as the main reason for setting aside more money for legal expenses.
The bank, based in Frankfurt, has also been ensnared by the global investigation into rate manipulation. In November, Deutsche Bank said it had set aside money for potential penalties related to rate rigging. Now, it appears the bank is increasing the buffer, partially in response to a string of recent settlements involving other banks.
In February, Royal Bank of Scotland agreed to pay American and British regulators $612 million to settle claims that it manipulated the London interbank offered rate, or Libor. Last year, the Swiss bank UBS agreed to a $1.5 billion settlement and Barclays agreed to pay $450 million in that case. The banks are also expected to face civil suits from people who paid more interest than they should have because of Libor manipulation.
In total, Deutsche Bank has set aside 2.4 billion euros ($3.1 billion) to cover possible judgments and other litigation costs. The legal expenses, the bank said, would not affect the dividend of 75 euro cents (97 cents) a share, which was announced in January.
Deutsche Bank was one of the few large German banks to avoid taking a direct government bailout during the financial crisis and it is the only German bank able to compete with large American and British investment banks.
The bank's co-chief executives, Anshu Jain and Jürgen Fitschen, have cut back on bonuses and taken other steps they say will discourage excessive risk-taking and unethical or illegal behavior in the future.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); EURO (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (61%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); UBS AG (91%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (67%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); UBSN (SWX) (91%); UBS (NYSE) (91%); RBS (NYSE) (67%); RBS (LSE) (67%); RBS (AMS) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



667 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Financial Windfalls for Wall St. Executives Taking Government Jobs

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG; Ben Protess contributed reporting.

 BODY:
People usually say they go into government to perform public service. If they came from Wall Street, however, their former employers often provide another service.
Banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, all have provisions that allow acceleration of payments owed to senior executives if they take government jobs, a new study finds.
Such a benefit was highlighted recently during the confirmation hearing for Jacob J. Lew as Treasury secretary. His previous employer, Citigroup, had guaranteed him preferential financial treatment if he were to leave to take a job in the government. When Mr. Lew left Citigroup he held stock that he could not immediately cash worth as much as $500,000, according to a government filing. 
''These companies seem to be giving a special deal to executives who become government officials,'' says the study, to be released Thursday by the Project on Government Oversight. ''In exchange, the companies may end up with friends in high places who understand their business, sympathize with it, and can craft policies in its favor.''
The study looked at the compensation policies of several financial institutions.
The accelerated vesting of Mr. Lew's shares is part of a larger debate on Wall Street and in Washington, where people frequently move back and forth, creating concern that government officials may favor their old colleagues on Wall Street.
The debate has heated up recently as top officials from the Securities and Exchange Commission leave for new jobs, possibly on Wall Street, while the White House has nominated Mary Jo White, a lawyer who has represented Wall Street firms, to run the S.E.C.
Some Wall Street insiders contend that time spent on Wall Street does not compromise someone like Mr. Lew or Ms. White, saying that the experience sharpens their instincts and helps them understand how business actually works.
Firms that have contracts that provide for special treatment for employees who decide to go into government typically say it is intended to encourage public service, not to curry favor. The firms also note that employees on Wall Street and elsewhere are often required by law to sell their shares to avoid potential conflicts of interest and are limited in the amount of contact they can have with their former employer. The issue is simply more pronounced on Wall Street because executives are often paid in shares that vest over several years, rather than just cash.
One person who has gone from Wall Street to government, who asked not to be named because of a policy at his workplace prohibiting employees from speaking to the media, said he sold his stock at a depressed price for a job that paid millions of dollars less than what he was earning.
''I went into government because I believe in public service, not to help Wall Street,'' he said.
Mr. Lew worked at Citigroup from 2006 to 2008. Under the terms of Mr. Lew's contract with Citi, he kept certain bonus compensation if he left for a ''high-level position with the United States government or regulatory body,'' but not for a private sector competitor, said people with direct knowledge of the contract.
A Citigroup spokeswoman said it ''routinely accommodates individuals who wish to leave the firm to pursue a position in government or nonprofit sector.''
Other Wall Street firms have compensation plans with language similar to Mr. Lew's. They do not provide for a bonus for government service, but rather allow for special treatment of compensation that has already been granted but not paid out.
On Wall Street, employees are often paid in the form of shares that they cannot cash for years. These contracts allow the employees to cash the shares early. If they were leaving for a rival firm, however, they would most likely forfeit that compensation.
In recent years, dozens of people have left finance to work for government.
Thomas R. Nides, for example, left Morgan Stanley in 2010 to join the Obama administration as deputy secretary of state for management and resources. He sold shares of Morgan Stanley at the time, disclosing to the government that the firm allowed him to cash out his shares ahead of schedule.
Mr. Nides, who received at least $5 million because of a stock acceleration, recently left government to return to Morgan Stanley as vice chairman. A Morgan Stanley spokesman declined to comment on the issue.
At Goldman, at least one of its compensation plans allows for a lump sum cash payment for certain stock grants that have been awarded but have not yet vested, according to a regulatory filing.
At least one of its former executives, Robert D. Hormats, received special financial treatment on some of his holdings, according to a government filing. Mr. Hormats, under secretary of state for economic growth, energy and the environment, wrote to the government upon taking that position that ''Goldman Sachs will accelerate and pay out my restricted stock units, pursuant to written company policy.''
Those payments are allowed. In 1990, the Supreme Court ruled that Boeing was within its rights to make lump sum severance payments to several employees when they quit Boeing to take senior military posts.
The Project on Government Oversight says the rules governing executive sales of stock were tightened in 2004, as a response to the collapse of the energy company Enron. In the weeks before filing for bankruptcy, Enron had paid out millions of dollars in accelerated payments to senior executives. Now it is much harder for companies to speed up stock payments, but there is a government service exemption that allows for some leeway.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacob Lew, top, now Treasury secretary, and Thomas Nides, above, an ex-deputy secretary of state, received accelerated pay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES
 DREW ANGERER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



668 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Fed to Maintain Stimulus Efforts Despite Jobs Growth

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Employment has been increasing at a healthy clip for the last few months, but the Federal Reserve is not ready to relax just yet.
''We need to see sustained improvement,'' the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said at a news conference on Wednesday. ''One or two months doesn't cut it. So we're just going to have to keep providing support for the economy and see how things evolve.''
The Fed's policy-making committee said much the same thing in a stilted statement issued just before Mr. Bernanke took questions, announcing that it would continue to hold down short-term interest rates and buy $85 billion a month in Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. 
Mr. Bernanke's remarks suggested that the Fed would reduce its asset purchases if job growth continued at the current pace, the first time he has said that the central bank is likely to reduce the amount of monthly purchases before it stops buying entirely.
But such a change remains at least a few months away, and quite possibly longer. The Fed is wary of pulling back too soon, a mistake it has already made several times in recent years. It is waiting to assess the impact of the federal spending cuts that began this month. And Mr. Bernanke said the members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which makes policy for the Fed, ''have not been able to come to an agreement'' about the goals of the asset purchases or, by extension, when they should end.
Mr. Bernanke, who has made job growth the Fed's top priority for the first time in its 100-year history, spoke about the issue in personal terms. Asked when he last had spoken to an unemployed person, he said that one of his own relatives was out of work.
''I come from a small town in South Carolina that has taken a big hit from the recession,'' Mr. Bernanke said. ''The last time I was there, the unemployment rate was about 15 percent. The home I was raised in had just been foreclosed upon. I have a great concern for the unemployed, both for their own sake but also because the loss of skills and the loss of labor force attachment is bad for our whole economy.''
Mr. Bernanke also may have provided some insight into his own future. Asked repeatedly about his interest in a third term as Fed chairman, Mr. Bernanke demurred several times before telling one reporter, ''I've spoken to the president a bit but I really don't have any information for you at this juncture.''
The Fed said last year that it planned to hold short-term interest rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remained above 6.5 percent. The rate stood at 7.7 percent in February and has barely budged in half a year. Most economic forecasters do not expect the threshold to be reached before 2015.
The asset purchases are intended as a short-term measure to catalyze faster job growth; the Fed has said it will slow increasing its collection of Treasuries and mortgage bonds, a policy known as ''quantitative easing,'' once it is convinced that employment is increasing at a sustainable pace.
The unusual rigidity of this basic course has diminished the importance of the Fed's regular meetings, and it has to some extent created a problem of foreshortening. The next change in policy is necessarily the major subject of discussion among Fed officials, analysts and investors. But that may make the next change seem nearer than it really is. It is quite possible that the year could pass without any significant change.
''In one line: Sustainability, sustainability, sustainability,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomic Advisors, wrote in a note to clients. ''Mr. Bernanke clearly does not want even to consider slowing Q.E. until he is convinced that any such run of strength now is a permanent shift.''
The decision, of course, does not rest with Mr. Bernanke alone. And he noted on Wednesday that there was no consensus on the policy-making committee about how much longer asset purchases should continue. ''We've not been able to come to an agreement about what guidance we should give,'' he said.
As is often the case, Fed officials are not just debating how to respond to economic circumstances. They are debating the nature of those circumstances.
The economy has grown more robustly in recent months -- the committee hailed ''a return to moderate economic growth following a pause late last year'' -- and job growth has increased since the Fed began its latest stimulus campaign in September.
But even as spending by consumers and businesses drives growth, the Fed noted that fiscal policy ''has become somewhat more restrictive.''
''The committee continues to see downside risks to the economic outlook,'' the statement said.
The Fed separately released economic forecasts by 19 of its senior officials showing that their expectations had actually soured slightly. They predicted growth of 2.3 percent to 2.8 percent this year, down from a forecast in December of 2.3 percent to 3 percent. The consensus forecast for 2014 also fell. Officials now expect growth of 2.9 percent to 3.4 percent in 2014, compared with a December forecast of growth from 3 percent to 3.5 percent.
Concerns about inflation remained in abeyance. Fed officials do not expect inflation above 2 percent over the next three years, well below their self-imposed ceiling of 2.5 percent inflation. At the same time, officials were modestly more optimistic about job growth. They predicted that the unemployment rate would rest between 6.7 and 7 percent at the end of 2014. In December, they predicted that the rate would sit between 6.8 and 7.3 percent at the end of 2014.
Against concerns that the pace of growth remains subpar, the Fed continues to weigh the possibility that its efforts will destabilize financial markets by encouraging excessive risk-taking.
So far, support on the committee for the stimulus remains strong. The decision to press forward was supported by 11 of the 12 voting members of the Federal Open Market Committee. Esther L. George, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, recorded the only dissent, as she did in January, citing concerns about stability and future inflation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman, at a news conference on Wednesday in Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



669 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Profit Down 31%, FedEx Cuts Outlook

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Express shipping seems much less urgent these days.
To save money, online shoppers and big businesses are increasingly willing to wait a little longer for goods to arrive. While that may mean savings for consumers, it is hurting FedEx's core business -- express delivery.
On Wednesday, the FedEx Corporation cut its outlook for the year after its profits slumped by 31 percent in the latest quarter. The company said it would pare its flight capacity between the United States and Asia and might ground some cargo planes. FedEx said it was making those changes because its customers were increasingly using its cheaper shipping options, even if that meant slower deliveries. 
The news startled investors. The stock fell 6.9 percent, its steepest one-day drop in 18 months, to $99.13 a share on the New York Stock Exchange.
Because it carries a wide variety of goods around the world, FedEx has long been seen as a leading indicator of the economy. But Wednesday's news did not point to a slowdown in global business -- the company's revenue actually rose 11 percent in the quarter. Instead, it reflected a more cost-conscious attitude among businesses in a time of economic uncertainty.
''Freight is moving, but customers and shippers are trading down,'' said Logan Purk, an analyst with Edward Jones. ''Businesses aren't paying for two days express shipping as much and are willing to put their goods in a boat and wait two weeks instead to cross the Pacific. A lot of consumers are in belt-tightening mode and don't want to pay for express.''
In an effort to reduce costs and improve profitability, FedEx said it was looking to retire some of its older and less fuel-efficient airplanes. The company, which operates the world's largest cargo airline, has a fleet of 666 planes, including older Boeing 727s and MD-10s. FedEx also said that, on April 1, it would start to pare service to Asia, a region that it said still had too much freight capacity.
''There's a new mind-set for shoppers and businesses: people and companies have adjusted their supply chain to slower shipping,'' said Kevin W. Sterling, an analyst with BB&T Capital Markets. ''The problem for FedEx is that it's very expensive to operate an airplane, and it takes time to park a plane. That can't be done overnight.''
FedEx had already warned about this problem in May, when it first cut its full-year outlook. Last October, it outlined a cost-cutting program of $1.7 billion a year over the next three years to deal with the fact that it was earning less on each package it carries. The strategy included buyouts and the retirements of senior managers and thousands of its 300,000 employees.
''The third quarter was very challenging due to continued weakness in international airfreight markets, pressure on yields due to industry overcapacity and customers selecting less expensive and slow-transit services,'' Frederick W. Smith, the company's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement. He added that the cost-cutting program was ''ramping up and on track.''
FedEx, which is based in Memphis, ships about nine million items a day and has a network that spans 220 countries and territories. It has 90,000 trucks, and its airplanes fly to 375 airports.
U.P.S., the world's largest shipper, has reported a similar decline in how much it can charge for packages. Still U.P.S., which has larger ground operations than FedEx, reported record profit in January, because of its domestic business.
Mr. Sterling, who downgraded FedEx shares from buy to hold last month, called this trend the ''new normal of shipping.'' Still, he said he was surprised at how much it had hurt FedEx.
''They are still busy flying a lot of stuff around, but they are doing it at a lower price,'' he said. ''It's like an airline selling seats at a $100 instead of $1,000.''
The number of packages shipped by FedEx every day in the quarter increased by 8 percent, but the yield per package -- the price FedEx can charge per package -- declined by 4 percent. The drop was most notable in its international priority business, usually one of its most lucrative.
''It appears that FedEx is struggling to keep lower priced packages out'' of the international priority network, ''resulting in challenging cost comparisons and margin compression,'' said Christian Wetherbee and Seth Lowry, Citi Research analysts.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: FedEx plans buyouts of employees like these in Doral. Fla. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FREIGHT (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); AIRLINES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (93%); BOEING CO (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) ASIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



670 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: Housing Demand on Rise, Builders Race to Catch Up

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
SACRAMENTO -- After six years of waiting on the sidelines, newly eager home buyers across the country are discovering that there are not enough houses for sale to accommodate the recent flush of demand.
''In my 27 years I've never seen inventories this low,'' said Kurt K. Colgan, a broker with Lyon Real Estate in the Sacramento metropolitan area, where the share of homes on the market has plummeted by one of the largest amounts in the nation. ''I've also never seen a market turn so quickly.''
The housing turnaround seems to have caught almost everyone in the business by surprise. As desirable as the long-awaited improvement may be, the unusually low level of homes for sale is creating widespread problems for buyers and sellers alike, leading to bidding wars and bubblelike price jumps in places that not long ago were suffering from major declines. In the Sacramento area, where the housing bust took an especially heavy toll, the median sales price has surged 15 percent over the last year, according to Zillow. 
Nationwide, sales prices rose 7.3 percent over the course of 2012, according to the Standard & Poor's Case-Shiller index, ranging from a slight decline in New York to a surge of 23 percent in Phoenix. Tracking more closely with the national trend were cities like Dallas, up 6.5 percent; Tampa, which rose 7.2 percent; and Denver, which gained 8.5 percent.
In many areas, builders are scrambling to ramp up production but face delays because of the difficulty of finding construction workers and in obtaining permits from suddenly overwhelmed local authorities. At the same time, homeowners -- many of them lifted above water for the first time in years -- often remain reluctant to sell, either because they want to wait and see how much further prices will climb or because they are afraid of being displaced in the sudden buying frenzy.
''You see a home go for sale and within a couple days there are three, four, six offers,'' said Carrie Miskawi, a mother of three young children who has been looking for a new home for the last six months with Mr. Colgan's help. She and her husband have decided not to put their current home on the market because they fear it will be snatched up before they have a chance to bid successfully on a new one.
''It's kind of a Catch-22,'' Mr. Colgan said. As long as large numbers of people are hesitant to put their own homes on the market because so few other homes are available, he said, there won't be many homes available.
Across the country, the raw number of homes for sale is at its lowest level since 1999, according to the National Association of Realtors. In the Sacramento metro area, home listings were down 60 percent in January from a year earlier, compared with 23 percent for the country over all, according to Zillow.
Inventories have been whittled down largely because new construction ground to a standstill for several years. Investors large and small have also scooped up most of the backlog of foreclosures and short sales; about 40 percent of all homes bought in Sacramento County over the last year were purchased by owners who currently live at a different address, according to county records and title data provided by the Fidelity National Title Insurance Company.
But steady job growth has put more people back to work, and families that put off moving because they couldn't afford it are finally ready to do so. ''Distressed'' sales are down and conventional sales are up.
Extraordinarily low mortgage rates don't hurt, either.
''The recovery is real,'' said John Burns, chief executive of John Burns Real Estate Consulting. ''But the pace of the recovery has an artificial component to it.''
Some real estate agents in Sacramento, like Tom Phillips, have resorted to knocking on doors in desirable neighborhoods to see if the owners might, if asked nicely and promised a healthy gain, sell to one of his clients. One couple he represents, Darcey and Jason Schmelzer, just moved into a yearlong rental with their two boys because they sold before they could find a new place. They received four offers on the first day they put their home on the market, with the winning bid about $10,000 above asking price.
For the builders who survived the collapse, the tight market is a signal to get back to work.
Monthly permits for single-family homes in the Sacramento area more than doubled from January 2012 to January 2013, though they are still only a quarter of the level they reached during the bubble. Nationally, the construction industry added 48,000 jobs in February, the biggest increase since 2007.
The housing upturn looks set to continue, finally adding a crucial element of support to the slowly improving economy. The government reported Tuesday that housing permits, while far below their peak, surged in February to their highest level since June 2008, an increase of nearly 34 percent from a year earlier. But it will still be many months before new homes now going through the approval process will be ready to move in.
The New Home Company has ramped up building as fast as it can, said Kevin S. Carson, the president of the company's Northern California division. Founded in 2009 by the veterans of a major home builder that filed for bankruptcy during the crisis, the company plans to build 120 homes in Northern California this year, in contrast to 50 homes last year.
Construction is expected to take longer than usual, though, and expenses are rising, Mr. Carson said. That is primarily because after six years of almost no local building, skilled labor is scarce.
Many workers in the immigrant-heavy industry have left the area, returning to Mexico and other points south. Others pursued work in Texas's energy boom, where both drilling and construction jobs have become more plentiful. Those who stayed in the local area often switched to medical data entry, U.P.S. delivery services, or anything else that they could find. Or they filed for disability and dropped out the labor force altogether.
Some, like the 38-year-old electrician Gideon Jacks, are gingerly returning to construction work after taking a hiatus (in Mr. Jacks's case, the hiatus was in several low-paying jobs at restaurants), but others remain reluctant to return to the hard physical labor and unstable job prospects.
''They say, 'That's the last time I'm riding that roller coaster,' '' said Rick Wylie, president of the Beutler Corporation, a Sacramento air-conditioning and plumbing company. In 2005 he employed 2,100 workers, but by 2009 Beutler had only 270 employees. Mr. Wylie, who currently employs about 550, is now having trouble luring back many workers he let go.
''I don't mean to complain,'' he said. ''This is a good problem to have, a world-class problem, to not be able to find workers to do all the work you're getting.''
The shortages aren't limited to the workers toiling in the hot sun, either.
''You walk into the permit office, and it's like a ghost town in there,'' said Michael Haemmig, president of Haemmig Construction in Nevada City, Calif., about an hour north of Sacramento. He says local governments were caught off-guard by the suddenly renewed interest in building and do not have enough people in place to handle the paperwork.
''This being California, we have more regulations and permits than ever, and it takes more time to get each permit approved,'' he said.
For builders still hesitant to dive into the market too deeply, such delays may actually be welcome, since they help buy more time for prices to rise further.
''If we could build 500 houses right now, could we sell them?'' asked Harry Elliott III, president of Elliott Homes, a century-old company that built 250 homes last year and plans 350 this year, compared with a high of 1,400 in 2006. ''Possibly, but I don't want to sell all my lots that I've held on to forever and have to give them away at these prices.''
''We lost money for a lot of years, and I'd like to make some money for a change,'' he added. ''I'm not building because I need the practice.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gerraldo Zambrano working last week on a new home in a Folsom, Calif., development.
Carrie Miskawi of Folsom, Calif., top, and her family are searching for a bigger house. Kevin S. Carson, above, president of the New Home Company, in a new development in Folsom. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) CHARTS: Housing Is Finally on the Mend: More than six years after the housing bubble burst, the industry is beginning to recover. With the available supply of homes down to levels not seen since 1999, prices have begun to rise and home builders are responding by planning to construct more homes than at any time in the last eight years. The trend is particularly pronounced in places like Sacramento, which was hit especially hard during the downturn.
HOUSING INVENTORY
HOME VALUES
HOUSING PERMITS (Sources: National Association of Realtors
Zillow
S&P Case Shiller
 Census Bureau) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); CHILDREN (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); TRENDS (72%); CITIES (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: ZILLOW INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%)

TICKER: Z (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



671 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Solar Panel Giant Is Tainted by Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- It was the Icarus of the solar power industry. And, on Wednesday, it fell to earth.
The main subsidiary of Suntech Power, one of the world's largest makers of solar panels, collapsed into bankruptcy in a remarkable reversal for what had been part of a huge Chinese government effort to dominate renewable energy industries.
The bankruptcy is a sign of the worldwide consolidation of the solar industry, which has been crippled by a glut of products on world markets and Western tariffs on Chinese products. It also signals China's unwillingness to continue to subsidize struggling manufacturers in the industry, which is contributing to the steep decline of its green energy pursuits.
More than any other country, China had leaned heavily on renewable energy to solve its problems of severe air pollution and dependence on energy imports from politically unstable countries in the Middle East and Africa. 
Suntech, a centerpiece of the country's efforts, had grown to 10,000 employees in its hometown, Wuxi, on China's east coast, and even set up a small factory in Arizona to assemble panels. But a tenfold expansion of Chinese solar panel manufacturing capacity from 2008 to 2012 pushed down the price of solar panels about 75 percent, undermining the economics of the business.
The rapid expansion of natural gas production in the United States and a curtailment of subsidies in the European Union also hurt prices, as did the United States's imposition of import tariffs totaling about 40 percent after an antidumping and antisubsidy investigation last year.
The European Union is completing its own trade investigation of Chinese solar panel shipments that could lead to steep tariffs there as well.
After Suntech grew spectacularly, with production that soared year after year on heavy investment, and after Western investors bought up its New York-traded shares and its international debt issues, the company was battered by plummeting prices as the overall manufacturing industry sank.
Ocean Yuan, the president of Grape Solar, an importer of solar panels based in Eugene, Ore., said he foresaw a series of bankruptcies by big Chinese solar panel manufacturers, some of which, like Suntech, have very high debt. Chinese manufacturers lost as much as $1 for every $3 of sales last year as they struggled to keep factories open despite falling prices.
''They are bleeding every day,'' Mr. Yuan wrote in an e-mail. ''The more they sell, the more they lose money.''
He predicted that solar panel manufacturers in Europe and the United States would also face crippling financial pressures and that the long-term survivors in the industry would be manufacturers in Taiwan, who have low costs and are not subject to the American import tariffs or the likely European tariffs.
Chinese banks quietly asked a court in Wuxi on Monday to declare the operating subsidiary, Wuxi Suntech, insolvent and begin reorganizing it. The subsidiary notified the court on Wednesday that it did not object to the insolvency petition.
Suntech Power, the parent, said that it was not filing for bankruptcy and would continue to honor warranties on the company's solar panels.
The bankruptcy filing is widely expected to lead to a takeover of the Wuxi operations by Wuxi Guolian Development Group, a financial conglomerate controlled by the city government of Wuxi.
A woman who answered the phone at Wuxi Guolian's headquarters on March 13 said that her company was involved in a Suntech acquisition but declined to provide details or her name.
On Tuesday, Suntech Power announced the appointment of a new president, Weiping Zhou, a longtime Wuxi Guolian executive who had been the chairman of that company's futures trading subsidiary.
In its statement announcing the bankruptcy of Wuxi Suntech, Suntech Power did not mention any immediate role for Wuxi Guolian. David W. King, the chief executive of Suntech Power, said the company would ''continue to work closely with all of our stakeholders and take the necessary steps to put Suntech back on track for growth.''
Suntech Power is traded on the New York Stock Exchange, and had a market capitalization of $16 billion at its peak. Its stock, which was already taking a beating, closed at just under 59 cents a share on Tuesday before trading was halted in response to the bankruptcy. The stock had reached $88.35 at its peak five years ago. Several competitors, including Trina, JA Solar and Yingli, posted increases in a generally robust market.
''There's some feeling out there among investors that this will take some of the capacity offline,'' said Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour Capital Investments, adding that Suntech was likely to continue production at some level with government support aimed at preserving jobs. There may also be renewed enthusiasm for solar stocks among investors, Mr. Krop said, as the prices of panel components like polysilicon, wafers and cells have been edging up since the beginning of the year.
The company failed to make payments last Friday on $541 million of convertible debt.
The fact that Suntech Power's Chinese subsidiary filed for bankruptcy protection without the parent also filing may cause acrimony over whether foreign creditors are being treated unfairly compared with domestic creditors in China.
It is rare for Chinese companies to file for bankruptcy, as the government sometimes steps in to avoid damaging the broader reputation of Chinese companies' creditworthiness.
The insolvency filing by Wuxi Suntech sets off a potentially complex legal fight that could damage international investors' faith in Chinese bonds, after many months of scandals that have already hurt enthusiasm for the overseas-listed shares of Chinese companies.
Wuxi Suntech holds virtually all of the factories and other physical assets of Suntech Power, and these assets are in China, which makes it easier for the Chinese banks to take ownership of them. Foreign lenders to Suntech Power, like the investors who bought its convertible bonds, are ''structurally subordinate'' to the Chinese lenders in trying to recover their money from these assets, according to legal experts.
But most of the Suntech group's sales were in the United States and Europe, because China's renewable energy policies tended to emphasize manufacturing subsidies that would allow Chinese companies to capitalize on foreign governments' subsidies for consumers. Foreign lenders could have an advantage in seizing dollars and euros in overseas accounts, as well as the money that overseas buyers still owe Suntech, which allowed many creditors to delay paying for panels until months after they were delivered.
Another complexity is that Suntech Power is incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The bankruptcy laws there do not usually allow reorganization, and companies tend to be liquidated instead. But the convertible bonds issued by Suntech Power specified that any dispute involving the bonds would have to be resolved under New York State law.
Last week, Suntech closed its factory in Goodyear, Ariz. It was an operation of just 43 people who put aluminum frames and electrical junction boxes on solar cells from China so that the products could qualify for ''Buy American'' programs.
In announcing the bankruptcy of Wuxi Suntech, the corporate parent did not specify the debts of its subsidiary. Xinhua, the Chinese state-run news agency, said Wuxi Suntech owed 7.1 billion renminbi, or $1.1 billion, to nine Chinese banks. It did not explain why only eight banks joined the insolvency petition, or the extent of the loans to Wuxi Suntech by the unidentified ninth bank.
The bankruptcy comes after a dozen solar panel manufacturers in the United States and a dozen in Europe have either failed or cut back production after finding that they were unable to cover their costs at the current low prices for solar panels.
The industry's problem is that most of the cost of a solar panel lies in building the factory, not in operating the equipment. So when the industry has severe overcapacity, as it does now, each company continues running its factories to cover its tiny operating costs, and at least a small part of the interest on the loans it took out to buy the costly factory equipment.
But when every company pursues that strategy, the whole industry loses money and virtually no business is able to cover its full interest costs.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers assemble solar panels at Suntech Power's subsidiary in Wuxi, China, which is bankrupt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER PARKS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (93%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (87%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); PLANT CAPACITY (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); AIR POLLUTION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUGENE, OR, USA (52%) OREGON, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



672 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: As Men Lose Economic Ground, Clues Are Seen in Changing Families

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The decline of two-parent households may be a significant reason for the divergent fortunes of male workers, whose earnings generally declined in recent decades, and female workers, whose earnings generally increased, a prominent labor economist argues in a new survey of existing research.
David H. Autor, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says that the difference between men and women, at least in part, may have roots in childhood. Only 63 percent of children lived in a household with two parents in 2010, down from 82 percent in 1970. The single parents raising the rest of those children are predominantly female. And there is growing evidence that sons raised by single mothers ''appear to fare particularly poorly,'' Professor Autor wrote in an analysis for Third Way, a center-left policy research organization.
In this telling, the economic struggles of male workers are both a cause and an effect of the breakdown of traditional households. Men who are less successful are less attractive as partners, so some women are choosing to raise children by themselves, in turn often producing sons who are less successful and attractive as partners. 
''A vicious cycle may ensue,'' wrote Professor Autor and his co-author, Melanie Wasserman, a graduate student, ''with the poor economic prospects of less educated males creating differentially large disadvantages for their sons, thus potentially reinforcing the development of the gender gap in the next generation.''
The fall of men in the workplace is widely regarded by economists as one of the nation's most important and puzzling trends. While men, on average, still earn more than women, the gap between them has narrowed considerably, particularly among more recent entrants to the labor force.
For all Americans, it has become much harder to make a living without a college degree, for intertwined reasons including foreign competition, advancements in technology and the decline of unions. Over the same period, the earnings of college graduates have increased. Women have responded exactly as economists would have predicted, by going to college in record numbers. Men, mysteriously, have not.
Among people who were 35 years old in 2010, for example, women were 17 percent more likely to have attended college, and 23 percent more likely to hold an undergraduate degree.
''I think the greatest, most astonishing fact that I am aware of in social science right now is that women have been able to hear the labor market screaming out 'You need more education' and have been able to respond to that, and men have not,'' said Michael Greenstone, an M.I.T. economics professor who was not involved in Professor Autor's work. ''And it's very, very scary for economists because people should be responding to price signals. And men are not. It's a fact in need of an explanation.''
Most economists agree that men have suffered disproportionately from economic changes like the decline of manufacturing. But careful analyses have found that such changes explain only a small part of the shrinking wage gap.
One set of supplemental explanations holds that women are easier to educate or, as the journalist Hanna Rosin wrote in ''The End of Men,'' because women are more adaptable. Professor Autor writes that such explanations are plausible and ''intriguing,'' but as yet unproven.
He disagrees entirely with the view of the conservative analyst Charles Murray, in ''Coming Apart,'' that men have become ''less industrious.''
''We're pretty much in agreement on most of the facts,'' Professor Autor said of Mr. Murray. ''But he looks at the same facts and says this is all due to the failure of government programs, eroding the commitment to working. And we're saying, what seems much more plausible here is that the working world just has less and less use for these folks.''
Professor Autor's own explanation builds on existing research showing that income inequality has soared, stretching the gap between rich and poor, and that a smaller share of Americans are making the climb. The children of lower-income parents are ever more likely to become, in turn, the parents of lower-income children.
Moreover, a growing share of lower-income children are raised by their mother but not their father, and research shows that those children are at a particular disadvantage.
Professor Autor said in an interview that he was intrigued by evidence suggesting the consequences were larger for boys than girls, including one study finding that single mothers spent an hour less per week with their sons than with their daughters. Another study of households where the father had less education, or was absent entirely, found the female children were 10 to 14 percent more likely to complete college. A third study of single-parent homes found boys were less likely than girls to enroll in college.
''It's very clear that kids from single-parent households fare worse in terms of years of education,'' he said. ''The gender difference, the idea that boys do even worse again, is less clear cut. We're pointing this out as an important hypothesis that needs further exploration. But there's intriguing evidence in that direction.''
Conservatives have long argued that society should encourage stable parental relationships. A recent report by the National Marriage Project at the University of Virginia concluded that promoting marriage is the best way ''to make family life more stable for children whose parents don't enjoy the benefit of a college education.''
Liberals have tended to argue that the government should focus instead on improving economic opportunities. Jonathan Cowan, the president of Third Way, said the paper underscored that addressing social problems was a means to improve economic opportunities.
''If Democrats have as their goal being the party of the middle class, they have to come to the realization that they're not going to be able to get there solely through their standard explanations,'' said Mr. Cowan, a veteran of the Clinton administration. ''We need to ask, 'How can we get these fathers back involved in their children's lives?' ''
But some experts cautioned that Professor Autor's theory did not necessarily imply that such children would benefit from the presence of their fathers.
''Single-parent families tend to emerge in places where the men already are a mess,'' said Christopher Jencks, a professor of social policy at Harvard University. ''You have to ask yourself, 'Suppose the available men were getting married to the available women? Would that be an improvement?' ''
Instead of making marriage more attractive, he said, it might be better for society to help make men more attractive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job seekers at a job fair in Chicago. An economist suggests that boys raised in single-parent households are at a disadvantage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHARTS: Diverging Fortunes for Men and Women: In recent decades, men have lost ground to women in educational attainment, cutting into the real income of most males as prospects for those without a college education have worsened.
Share of 35-year-olds with a four-year college degree
 Change in real hourly wages from 1979 to 2010 (Source: "Wayward Sons: The Emerging Gender Gap in Labor Markets and Education," David Autor and Melanie Wasserman) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); MEN (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); PARENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TRENDS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); WRITERS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



673 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Shares Push Higher as Fed Maintains Stimulus Program

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Fear of a revived debt crisis in Europe faded from the stock market on Wednesday, freeing the Dow Jones industrial average to touch another milestone.
After falling Monday on concerns that Cyprus would become the latest European nation to stir fiscal chaos, the Dow posted its second consecutive day of gains.
Stocks traded steadily higher for most of the day and spiked after the Federal Reserve said it would continue with aggressive measures to support the economy. The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said the crisis in Cyprus posed no major risk to the United States economy. 
The Dow was up 44 points shortly before the Fed announcement. It rose as much as 91 points shortly after the Fed released its policy statement at 2 p.m., reaching a milestone of 14,546 at 2:25 p.m.
The Fed said the nation's economy had strengthened after pausing late last year, but still needed support from the central bank. The Fed plans to continue buying $85 billion in bonds a month indefinitely to keep long-term borrowing costs down and encourage investment. It also said it would keep short-term interest rates at record lows, at least until unemployment falls to 6.5 percent.
Interest rates were higher. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 16/32, to 100 12/32, and the yield rose to 1.96 percent from 1.90 percent late Tuesday.
Unemployment fell last month to 7.7 percent, the lowest level in four years. The Fed does not expect the rate to reach its target until 2015.
The Dow closed up 55.91 points Wednesday, or 0.4 percent, at 14,511.73.
Stock markets were little changed on Tuesday despite rising uncertainty in Cyprus. Anyone watching ''would conclude that the market decided Cyprus is overblown as an issue,'' said Brian Gendreau, a strategist at the Cetera Financial Group.
Mr. Gendreau said traders had been concerned about what precedent might be set by Cyprus's efforts to avoid a crisis. A plan to seize money from bank savings accounts was met with outrage, and the nation's Parliament rejected the proposal on Tuesday.
The nation's unusual status as an international financial haven makes it an unlikely road map for future rescue efforts.
''I think the market's going to start looking at other things,'' he said.
Cyprus was negotiating with international lenders, seeking support for its ailing financial system. Without a bailout deal, Cyprus's banks could collapse, devastating the country's economy and potentially forcing it to exit the euro currency group. That could roil global financial markets.
Attention returned to Europe this week after several months' respite, during which traders focused on the strengthening economy in the United States and drove stocks to multiyear highs.
Over the previous two years, concerns about a breakup of the euro currency often dominated trading of United States stocks. The jitters receded after central banks provided enough extra cash to help prop up Europe's commercial banks.
Among stocks making big news was FedEx. The company reported sharply lower quarterly earnings and said it would cut capacity to Asia. FedEx sank $7.33, or 6.9 percent, to $99.13.
Adobe soared after reporting strong first-quarter earnings. The company, which makes Adobe Reader and Photoshop, said it had picked up more subscriptions to online versions of its software products. The stock rose $1.71, or 4.2 percent, to $42.46.
In other trading, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.37 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,558.71. The Nasdaq composite index rose 25.09, or 0.8 percent, to 3,254.19.
The S.& P. 500 is just six points below its milestone of 1,565, reached in October 2007. It is up 9.3 percent so far this year.
The Dow is up 10.7 percent for the year. From March 1 through March 14, the index had a 10-day winning streak -- its longest since 1996. The Dow rose 484 points, to 14,539, during that period. After a two-day dip on Friday and Monday, the Dow has added 60 points to 14,511.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EURO (66%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CYPRUS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



674 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: Pediatrics Group Backs Gay Marriage, Saying It Helps Children

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
The American Academy of Pediatrics declared its support for same-sex marriage for the first time on Thursday, saying that allowing gay and lesbian parents to marry if they so choose is in the best interests of their children.
The academy's new policy statement says same-sex marriage helps guarantee rights, benefits and long-term security for children, while acknowledging that it does not now ensure access to federal benefits. When marriage is not an option, the academy said, children should not be deprived of foster care or adoption by single parents or couples, whatever their sexual orientation. 
The academy's review of scientific literature began more than four years ago, and the result is a 10-page report with 60 citations.
''If the studies are different in their design and sample but the results continue to be similar, that gives scientists and consumers more faith in the result,'' said Dr. Ellen Perrin, a co-author of the new policy and a professor of pediatrics at Tufts University School of Medicine.
Other scientists called the evidence lackluster and said the academy's endorsement was premature. Loren Marks, an associate professor of child and family studies at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, said there was not enough national data to support the pediatric association's position on same-sex marriage. ''National policy should be informed by nationally representative data,'' he said. ''We are moving in the direction of higher-quality national data, but it's slow.''
The academy cited research finding that a child's well-being is much more affected by the strength of relationships among family members and a family's social and economic resources than by the sexual orientation of the parents. ''There is an emerging consensus, based on extensive review of the scientific literature, that children growing up in households headed by gay men or lesbians are not disadvantaged in any significant respect relative to children of heterosexual parents,'' the academy said.
A large body of evidence demonstrates that children raised by gay or lesbian parents fare as well in emotional, cognitive and social functioning as peers raised by heterosexuals, the academy said.
One study in England compared 39 families with lesbian mothers to 74 heterosexual parents and 60 families headed by single heterosexual women. No difference was found between the groups in emotional involvement, abnormal behaviors in children as reported by parents or teachers, or psychiatric disorders in them. Both mothers and teachers reported more behavioral problems among children in single-parent families than two-parent ones, whatever their sexual orientation.
A 2010 study of children born to 154 lesbian parents in the United States compared mothers' reports of their 17-year-olds to a national sample of age-matched peers. The mothers' reports indicated that their sons and daughters had high levels of competence and fewer social problems, compared with their peers.
''Marriage strengthens families and benefits child development, and it also increases a parent's sense of competence and security when they are able to raise children without stigma,'' said Dr. Nanette Gartrell, the lead author of the study and a visiting scholar at the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law.
The research on same-sex marriage has limitations, experts note, including the relatively small sample sizes of gay or lesbian parents even in long-term studies. Many studies have relied on parental assessments of their children's well-being, and there is relatively little data about the well-being of children raised by gay men compared with lesbians.
''Many studies compare wealthy, well-educated lesbian mothers to single heterosexual mothers instead of married couples,'' Dr. Marks said. ''This matters, because children from married families do better on numerous outcomes including psychological and physical health and avoidance of high-risk behaviors than children of single-parent families.''
Timm Ryan-Young, a 48-year-old married Brooklynite and father of Zelia, 6, found the academy's support of same-sex marriage reaffirming.
''Whenever a formal institution validates or confirms that a same-sex family is valid,'' he said, ''and there are no measurable negatives to it, or deterrents to it, it means a great deal, frankly.''
Dr. Travis Kidner, 36, a surgeon in Los Angeles, and Hernan Lopez, 42, a media executive, married in 2008 and adopted Nicholas, 2 1/2 years old, and Zoe, 21 months. ''It's important for kids to know they are from a stable home and that their parents are married,'' Dr. Kidner said.
The pediatrics academy's support for same-sex marriage heartened him. ''The arc is in our favor now,'' he said.
Another reason same-sex couples should be allowed to marry, the academy said, is that divorce law provides for a legally structured arrangement for visits and custody.
''If people can't get married, then they can't get divorced,'' Dr. Perrin said. ''That legal system that exists to protect our most vulnerable, namely children, isn't in play.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Travis Kidner, who is in a same-sex marriage, with his children Zoe (being carried) and Nicholas in Los Angeles on Wednesday, above. Kevin Ryan-Young and Timm Ryan- Young, far right, with their daughter, Zelia, in New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (94%); PEDIATRICS (90%); GAY PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); WRITERS (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (65%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (65%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ACADEMY OF PEDIATRICS (91%); LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (75%) LOUISIANA, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (51%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



675 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Results Fail to Meet Expectations

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Oracle Corporation on Wednesday reported flat earnings for its most recent quarter, hurt by a decline in sales of hardware systems and new software. The results, reported after the close of market trading, were weaker than expected and Oracle's shares tumbled in after-hours trading. 
Revenue from new software licenses and online or ''cloud'' subscriptions fell 2 percent year-over-year to $2.3 billion. The company predicted that number would rise by a range of 3 percent to 13 percent. Hardware systems revenue dropped 16 percent. While the hardware revenue decline has been continuing and expected, the decline in new software licenses and subscriptions was a surprise.
As one of the world's largest makers of business software, Oracle helps Wall Street gauge the direction of corporate technology budgets. When Oracle's earnings are lackluster, it is often a sign that companies are concerned about the economy.
But Oracle, which is based in Redwood City, Calif., also depends on international markets for a major portion of its revenue. Europe's economy is still limping because of worries about government debt, and China's economic growth has been slowing.
Oracle earned $2.5 billion, or 52 cents a share, in the quarter. That compares with $2.5 billion, or 49 cents a share, in the comparable period a year earlier, when it had more shares outstanding.
Revenue in the period, which ended Feb. 28 and was the third quarter of Oracle's fiscal year, fell 1 percent to $8.96 billion from $9.04 billion, hurt in part by the stronger dollar.
Analysts polled by FactSet had expected earnings of 66 cents a share, excluding charges for past acquisitions and other costs, on revenue of $9.38 billion.
Shares of the company fell $2.73, or 7.7 percent, to $33 in after-hours trading after the announcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUDGETS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US DOLLAR (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (54%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



676 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Flexibility And Moxie Can Save West Side

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
New York is at a crossroads. After half a century a fleeting opportunity has finally arrived to address the disaster of Penn Station, the nation's busiest and most appalling transit hub, and to reimagine a new West Side for Midtown Manhattan that could be a center for development and innovation.
For decades public officials and countless city skeptics have insisted nothing can be done. Penn Station is a black hole of politics, they say. The owners of Madison Square Garden, which squats on top of the station preventing real improvement, would never budge, especially not with the millions of dollars in tax breaks they've been getting or the nearly $1 billion they have poured into the aging arena.
But there are precedents for achieving the impossible. 
The Kings Cross area of London, where the St. Pancras and Kings Cross railway stations converge, was a crime-ridden nexus of seemingly intractable poverty, filth and despair going back generations. But through a creative mix of public and private investments -- in which the refurbishments of the stations themselves were vital -- the area has changed beyond recognition. The two stations have been become major attractions for locals and tourists who don't even use the trains: they dine and shop there. New housing and an arts university have moved nearby. Google has chosen to locate its European headquarters at Kings Cross because of the stations (which include the London terminus of the Channel tunnel service to the Continent). What had been a drag on the London economy has become a boon to local property values and a Europe-wide emblem of innovation.
The same could happen in New York, with imagination and political moxie. The Postal Service, strapped for money, is reportedly looking to sell off valuable city properties. It owns several on the West Side, including the Morgan General Mail Facility, a stolid, fortlike processing and distribution center that occupies a two-block site, from 28th to 30th Streets between 9th and 10th Avenues, ideal for a new arena. One plan envisions constructing an extension of the High Line spur from 10th Avenue at 30th Street to Penn Station, which would pass by the Morgan site. A new Garden there, still convenient to mass transit, could become the centerpiece of a populist gold mine of leisure and commercial development.
In the next several days Scott Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, will make his recommendation on extending the special permit that has allowed the Dolan family, Madison Square Garden's owners, to operate an arena atop Penn Station. The last permit expired in January. The Dolans now want the city to renew it in perpetuity.
Last month Community Board 5 took the first important step, recommended only a 10-year extension, enough time for all parties to come up with plans to improve the rail site and find a better home for the Garden. After Mr. Stringer weighs in then come the City Planning Commission, and ultimately the City Council. They should all follow the community board's lead -- or risk going down on the wrong side of history like those who demolished the old Penn Station.
What should motivate New York politicians to do the right thing at this juncture is the prospect of a new station and arena that could not just improve the safety and quality of life of millions of people but also benefit the economy. The West Side is going to change radically. At the moment only some 25,000 of the station's present travelers, maybe 5 percent, will benefit from a current plan to convert the James A. Farley Post Office building, across Eighth Avenue from Penn Station, into what is to be renamed Moynihan Station.
Because public officials haven't wanted to derail Moynihan, they have soft-pedaled the figures, leaving many New Yorkers with the illusion that Moynihan will replace Penn Station and solve its problems. But just Amtrak will move there, not the Long Island Rail Road and New Jersey Transit.
At the same time demands on Penn Station are about to explode, with the development of the Hudson Yards and the third phase of the High Line; the prospect of Metro North's trains and its commuters coming into Penn Station after the completion of East Side Access; and Amtrak's proposed Gateway Project, a first step toward high-speed rail, which could double the number of Amtrak and New Jersey Transit trains coming into Manhattan.
It's not only that Penn Station, designed a half-century ago in a declining city for what seemed then an unlikely capacity of 200,000 passengers a day, is now handling more than twice that number. It is also a shabby, hopelessly confusing entry point to New York, a daily public shame on the city.
The station fails to conform to certain fire codes and safety regulations, local officials concede. Possible fixes being explored by Amtrak, New Jersey Transit and the Long Island Rail Road, which have hired the consulting firm Aecom, don't address the big, systemic problems, because they can't. Not with the Garden there.
But here's the bright side. Madison Square Garden has moved twice since its inception in 1879, and its present building is its fourth. Yes, the Dolans and their customers benefit from the perch above Penn Station. But there are options aside from the Morgan building to which the Garden might move again, options linked to mass transit, that should be attractive to its owners and fans.
Some years ago the Dolans entertained a proposal to move, along with Amtrak, into the Farley building, a plan that collapsed but that could be intelligently revived. A proposal by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo last year to redevelop the site of the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center -- an inadequate, misplaced, money-losing and outmoded structure -- and to erect a new convention center in Queens foundered when the deal with the Malaysian developer, who would have paid for the new center in exchange for opening a casino, fell through. But it raised the prospect of using part of the Javits site, where the extension of the No. 7 subway line will stop, at the northern culmination of the High Line, for a new Garden.
The point isn't deciding which possible site is best right now. It's knowing there are paths worth pursuing, and focusing the next decade on exploring them. The Regional Plan Association and the Municipal Art Society are about to announce a public campaign to urge government officials to limit the Garden's permit to 10 years and to consider possible redesigns of Penn Station as well as locations for a new arena. The Municipal Art Society will also announce that it is enlisting four major design firms to come up with specific plans.
I've been hearing that some city politicians, wary of inciting the Dolans, are looking to hide behind the excuse that the special permit is a private property issue, even though it concerns the lives of millions of New York voters. Hand wringing among city bureaucrats about having adequate legal footing to put a time limit on the permit has also prompted talk about fobbing responsibility for fixing the site off on the governor.
For Governor Cuomo -- who has the authority to initiate and approve an urban development project akin to the one at Atlantic Yards in Brooklyn, which could simply require the Garden to move -- Penn Station may seem a quagmire. But getting behind an initiative to turn the West Side into a regional magnet, with a new station as its anchor, should have great appeal looking toward future elections.
For Christine C. Quinn, speaker of the City Council and a candidate for mayor, standing up for New Yorkers, and up to the Dolans, would demonstrate compassion, guts and vision going into the mayoral race.
Next to never does a city have an opportunity to rectify a mistake as colossal as Penn Station. Ambitious political leaders should seize this moment.
Follow Michael Kimmelman on Twitter, @kimmelman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Current plans call for the James A. Farley Post Office on Eighth Avenue to be redeveloped into an Amtrak station.
The huge Morgan General Mail Facility on Ninth Avenue is one site where a new Madison Square Garden could go.
The Javits Center's south side is the High Line's northern terminus
 the extended No. 7 train will end there as well. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (78%); TRAINS (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); POLITICS (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (75%); PROPERTY TAX (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (65%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



677 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; CASE STUDY; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Questions Abound In Learning to Adjust To Health Care Overhaul

BYLINE: By JULIE WEED

 BODY:
Baked in the Sun is a wholesale baker and distributor of freshly baked pastries near San Diego.
THE CHALLENGE The company is one of thousands of small businesses that employ more than 50 full-time employees and thus will be required to offer health insurance to their workers -- or pay into a government fund -- beginning Jan. 1. Rachel Shein and Steve Pilarski, the married owners of the bakery, which employs 95 people, estimate this could cost their business up to $108,000, and they are weighing their options as the date approaches. ''Our revenues are about $8 million, but the food business is a low-margin industry so cutting $108,000 out of our profits, which are just over $200,000, is a big deal,'' said Ms. Shein, who is the chief executive. They are evaluating different ways to comply with the new law and finance the expense.
THE BACKGROUND Ms. Shein and Mr. Pilarski bought their first bakery, a maker of scones, 16 years ago. Their business grew along with the popularity of coffee shops, and they expanded their product line to include other pastries. 
During the recession, the coffee shop business contracted, so they found new customers among hotels and hospitals, but the cost of servicing different types of businesses and developing new products to meet their needs eroded profits. At the same time, gasoline and ingredient prices went up and vendors tightened payment terms. Still, the couple persevered by providing an array of freshly baked goods and offering product variety and consolidated delivery, simplifying things for their customers.
With the recession behind them, Ms. Shein and Mr. Pilarski are trying to rebuild their profitability. Baked in the Sun produces nearly 200,000 items a day -- almost 200 different products, including brownies, coffee cakes, muffins and cookies -- in an 18,500-square-foot baking facility in San Marcos, Calif. The goods are delivered to coffee shops, schools, hotels and hospitals in the San Diego area.
THE OPTIONS Ms. Shein is contemplating several options to comply with the Affordable Care Act's business mandate.
Option One is to provide the insurance. According to the law, Ms. Shein will have to offer health insurance or, most likely, pay a penalty, and she estimates the insurance will cost up to $108,000 a year for 90 employees (managers have insurance already).
This is just an estimate, she said, because the insurance companies have not yet created and set a price on plans that meet the law's requirement for minimum care. She estimates a cost of $200 per employee a month, of which the bakery would pay half and the employee would pay half. Employees can choose not to participate in the plan if they are covered elsewhere or for other reasons, so it is unlikely they will all sign up.
Option Two is to not offer health insurance and let employees find coverage elsewhere, perhaps on one of the new government exchanges. Under this option, the company will probably have to pay the mandated ''employer shared responsibility payment'' to the government.
The cost to the business would be $2,000 per employee a year, but the law exempts the first 30 employees, so the total would be $130,000 per year for a 95-person company. One benefit of this option is that the company would not have to take on the burden or expense of managing the insurance plan, which Ms. Shein estimates would take $10,000 of staff time.
One way to cover the costs associated with the new law would be to raise the price of each item sold about 4 percent and pass the costs along to buyers. ''It's ironic that our success meant we could grow,'' Ms. Shein said, ''and now we will be competing against smaller companies, with 50 employees or fewer, who will be able to charge less per item because they don't have the financial burden of health insurance.'' Prices are currently similar among local competitors, Ms. Shein said, and she says she believes the increase in her prices could affect her sales, possibly significantly.
Ms. Shein is considering a third option: outsourcing certain jobs to reduce the staff, because businesses with 50 or fewer employees will be exempt from the penalty. ''We can outsource the cleaning and make the drivers independent contractors,'' she said, ''and we can cut the least profitable delivery routes, least profitable accounts or reduce the variety of items we create.''
It is important for Ms. Shein to make a decision soon on staff levels because the number of full-time employees a business has in 2013 will determine its status in 2014. If the business has 50 or more full-time, or full-time equivalent, employees, it has to provide insurance to any staff members who work 30 hours or more a week. Companies can average their number of employees across the full 12 months in 2013 to see whether they meet the threshold, or they can instead calculate the number of full-time employees by using any six-consecutive-month period in 2013.
Ms. Shein said she believed all workers should have health insurance, and she and her husband had wrestled with the problem for years. ''We have offered health insurance to our employees in the past,'' she said, ''for preventive care, for financial protection, and because it doesn't make sense for taxpayers when they end up in the emergency room.''
However, she has found many of her employees resistant to coverage that requires an employee contribution. ''They are mostly young and healthy,'' she said. ''They don't have a lot of extra money, and they would rather have a bit more in their paycheck than health insurance.'' Also, she said, some of her Mexican employees prefer to go south of the border for inexpensive health care when they need it.
WHAT OTHERS SAY John G. Ebenger, an accountant with Berkowitz Pollack Brant Advisors and Accountants in Miami: ''It is a challenging situation, especially since the details have not been fully worked out. The bakery could opt to bite the bullet and pay the penalty next year with plans to revisit the types of insurance that become available in 2014. With a year to plan, insurance companies will come up with more options for employers.''
Jonathan Gruber, an economics professor at M.I.T. who advised the Obama administration on health care reform: ''Rachel and Steve face a difficult decision, but it seems that the third option, to reorganize production and outsource functions to end up with fewer than 50 workers, will be too expensive to make much sense. Offering insurance won't cost much more than the penalty, and in an industry where many of their competitors don't offer insurance, they could advertise themselves as a better place to work.''
Jody Hall, owner of Cupcake Royale, with 80 employees in Seattle, and a leader of the Main Street Alliance, a national network of small-business groups: ''I'd recommend offering health care insurance for full-time employees, like we do at Cupcake Royale, as part of our responsibility to help strengthen the health of our employees, our community, and our business.
''Ms. Shein is probably overestimating her costs because not all employees will use the health insurance she offers. At our bakery only about half our employees use the health insurance we provide. Some are under 26 and covered by parents, others have spouses with coverage, and some just choose not to take it. Small businesses like mine who have been offering health care will be better off when all businesses are paying into the system because the cost increases will slow down.''
THE RESULTS Offer your thoughts on the You're the Boss blog at nytimes.com/boss. Next week, on the blog and on this page, we will give an update on what Ms. Shein is planning to do.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rachel Shein, who operates Baked in the Sun, with bakery workers. She is weighing the options on employee health insurance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); BAKERIES (90%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); BAKED GOODS (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); MISC FOOD WHOLESALERS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (79%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); RETAILERS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (71%); GASOLINE PRICES (70%); HOSPITALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); PRICE INCREASES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



678 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: 'Tonight,' With New Host, Set To Reclaim Its New York Roots

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
NBC has settled on two new stars for ''The Tonight Show'': Jimmy Fallon and New York City.
The network has made a commitment to Mr. Fallon, the current host of its ''Late Night'' program, for him to succeed Jay Leno as the next host of ''Tonight,'' according to several senior television executives involved in the decision. As part of the agreement, the show would move from Burbank, Calif., back to New York, where it started in 1954 with Steve Allen as host.
NBC has not completed a deal with Mr. Fallon yet, but his assent is considered mostly a formality, since the move would represent a significant step up for him. And the network has not settled on an exact timetable for the switch, though it is expected to take place by fall 2014 at the latest, said the executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because discussions were still continuing.
One senior executive who has been involved in the discussions said on Wednesday that ''there is no way on earth that this is not going to happen.'' 
The move to Mr. Fallon would be a significant cultural, and geographic, shift. Mr. Leno delivers a more traditional Las Vegas-style comedy act that is viewed as a link to previous hosts, including his immediate predecessor, Johnny Carson. Mr. Fallon, 38, offers a more contemporary and varied brand of entertainment, with a heavy reliance on the Internet. His best material gains additional life on sites like YouTube, and he actively courts interaction with his viewers by having them submit comedy ideas through Twitter.
NBC has been desperate to avoid a repeat of the circuslike atmosphere that accompanied previous transitions on ''Tonight,'' the executives said. The changing of the guard is one of the biggest personnel decisions in television, and has always been fraught with intrigue and back-room maneuvering.
Three years ago, NBC's effort to replace Mr. Leno with Conan O'Brien ended in recriminations and a definitive reversal; Mr. Leno was reinstated as host after only seven months, and NBC endured weeks of negative news coverage. In the early 1990s, Mr. Leno and David Letterman engaged in an often acrimonious competition to replace Mr. Carson.
But a transition totally free of tumult may be difficult to accomplish. Already there has been sniping between Mr. Leno and NBC's top entertainment executive, Robert Greenblatt, over some stinging jokes Mr. Leno made in his monologue about the failure of NBC's prime-time schedule.
Mr. Greenblatt, who is responsible for that schedule, directed some pointed criticism at Mr. Leno in an e-mail to him. Mr. Leno stood his ground in a response, asserting that jokes spoofing the network are part of the job for a late-night host.
Mr. Leno, who will turn 63 next month, has continued to take shots at NBC's management. On Monday, he joked about how the snakes that St. Patrick drove from Ireland came to the United States and became NBC executives.
The network has sought to temper the feud while it works out its plans for the show's future -- which center on Mr. Fallon.
Mr. Leno's ''Tonight'' show still regularly leads in the late-night ratings. But by turning to Mr. Fallon, NBC hopes to counter what it regards as its biggest late-night competitor of the future, Jimmy Kimmel, who in January moved his show on ABC from midnight to 11:35 p.m.
Many TV executives speculated that NBC could not afford to wait too long to promote Mr. Fallon, or it might risk having Mr. Kimmel, 45, lock up the young-adult viewers who are the economic lifeblood of late-night television.
NBC has quietly begun work on a new studio in its headquarters building at 30 Rockefeller Plaza as the home for the new ''Tonight Show,'' two executives said. The studio is part of a general reconstruction of the building being undertaken by Comcast, which this week completed a full takeover of NBCUniversal.
An NBC spokeswoman declined to comment on the move, other than to say the network was building a new state-of-the-art studio for Mr. Fallon.
There are many reasons that Mr. Fallon would prefer to remain in New York, where he has starred on ''Late Night'' for four years. He is a native of New York State (from Saugerties, just south of Albany) and his longtime association with the producer Lorne Michaels could be kept intact if he stayed in New York. Mr. Fallon made his reputation at 30 Rockefeller as a star on Mr. Michaels's centerpiece show, ''Saturday Night Live.''
Perhaps most important, Mr. Fallon could ensure the continued participation of his house band, the Roots, who have been an integral part of the show and whose members are close to Mr. Fallon.
A move to New York would also return ''Tonight'' to its roots, after an absence of more than four decades. Beginning in 1954, it was broadcast every evening from Manhattan, first from the Hudson Theater with Mr. Allen as host, followed by Jack Paar and Johnny Carson, both of whom worked at 30 Rockefeller. But in 1972, Mr. Carson, looking for easier access to Hollywood guests, as well as a different lifestyle, moved the show permanently to Burbank.
Mr. Fallon now occupies the studio where Mr. Carson was working in the 1960s and early 1970s. His ''Late Night'' show is broadcast at 12:35 a.m. Eastern time, after Mr. Leno on ''Tonight.''
A New York ''Tonight Show'' will join a metropolitan landscape already filled with late-night comedy programs, including ''Late Show With David Letterman'' on CBS and shows featuring Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert on Comedy Central. One lingering question is what NBC will do with its ''Late Night'' franchise, which has always been based in New York.
Mr. O'Brien hosted that program before Mr. Fallon, and it had been speculated before his ascension to ''Tonight'' that he might try to keep working in New York, where he had thrived. But at the time, NBC insisted ''Tonight'' had become a Hollywood-centric show and needed to stay in California.
Mr. Fallon quickly impressed NBC's new management under Comcast, and his succession has been widely expected for at least a year. The only question has been when.
The potential timetable for the change -- sometime in the next 18 months -- has been tied to Mr. Leno's current contract, which ends in fall 2014, as well as the need to sign Mr. Fallon to a new deal.
Another complicating factor has been Mr. Leno's success in the ratings.
In recent weeks, he has continued to finish first -- always in the category of total viewers and usually among viewers ages 18 to 49, the most sought-after group for late-night advertisers.
As one of the executives involved in the planning of the shift to Mr. Fallon put it: ''And then Jay manages to stay ahead of Kimmel. How often has that guy been underestimated?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jimmy Fallon and Jay Leno (A1)
Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York, top, with Johnny Carson on ''The Tonight Show'' in 1966. Jimmy Fallon, above left, appeared on ''Tonight '' with Jay Leno in November 2011. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DON HOGAN CHARLES/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 STACIE McCHESNEY/NBC) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (79%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (90%); CONAN O'BRIEN (59%); DAVID LETTERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



679 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: A Forewarning on Fracking

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Days of Promise Fade for Ethanol'' (news article, March 17): 
With the ethanol boom came the inevitable bust, which hit some rural communities harder than others. The ethanol bust provides a glimpse into the future for communities that have opened their doors to shale gas extraction or those that seek to do so. Indeed, a recent report by Cornell University says fracking is already having mixed economic results, even in the short term.
The report says: ''The rising tide is not likely to lift all boats: there will be losing communities, and individuals who are displaced or left behind. Moreover, the experience of many economies based on extractive industries warns us that short-term gains frequently fail to translate into lasting, communitywide economic development.
''Most alarmingly, a growing body of credible research evidence ...shows that resource-dependent communities can and often do end up worse off than they would have been without exploiting their extractive reserves.''
KYLE RABIN New York, March 17, 2013
The writer is program director for Water and Energy Programs at the Grace Communications Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



680 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Student Loan Relief

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You correctly point out in ''Student Debt and the Economy'' (editorial, March 10) that borrowers struggling with high-cost private student loans need relief. You did not mention the most effective remedy: make these loans dischargeable in bankruptcy again. These are market-generated unsecured debts, like those for credit cards, and they don't deserve the protection from discharge given to low-cost federal loans, which come with many relief programs. 
Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Representative Steve Cohen of Tennessee have introduced legislation (S. 114/H.R. 532) to make private student loans dischargeable in bankruptcy, as they were until 2005. This would be the quickest way to push private student lenders to develop relief programs for borrowers who are unemployed, ill or otherwise unable to pay and who need deferments, furloughs and income-based repayment plans to avoid default and its severe consequences.
Bankruptcy dischargeability would put leverage directly in the hands of desperate borrowers.
JEAN BRAUCHER Tucson, March 11, 2013
The writer is a law professor at the University of Arizona.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (94%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); WRITERS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (55%); STEVE COHEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (65%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2013



681 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1140 words

HEADLINE: Art and History Among the Dead

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
ONE of New York City's most unusual museums is not on Fifth Avenue or Madison Avenue, but on 400 acres of beautifully landscaped land at Webster Avenue and East 233rd Street in the Bronx.
That would be Woodlawn Cemetery and Crematory, which is celebrating its 150th anniversary this year by casting itself as, in effect, an outdoor museum.
Established in 1863 as a cemetery for the rich and famous, Woodlawn is the final resting place for business titans like Jay Gould, Joseph Pulitzer, J. C. Penney and R. H. Macy. Many of those people hired as designers of their places of interment the same architects, landscape architects and sculptors who designed their homes. The financier William Whitney, for example, used the architect Stanford White, who designed his Manhattan mansion in Manhattan, for the memorial on his grave site, a granite plinth decorated with bronze swags.
With such attributes a powerful draw, Woodlawn is prominent among still-functioning cemeteries increasingly taking on the characteristics of museums, in part to raise their public profiles and assist fund-raising efforts. 
To help observe its sesquicentennial, Woodlawn plans an exhibition for fall 2014 at a Columbia University art gallery, curated by specialists from the Metropolitan Museum of Art and elsewhere. This will display works from the cemetery's extensive archives as well as stained glass, bronze and sculpture.
This year, Woodlawn will offer docent-led tours focusing on the cemetery's Italian stone carvings, astronomical designs on memorials and stage actors' grave sites, the last in honor of the 100th anniversary of Actors' Equity, the labor union.
Similarly, Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn observes its 175th anniversary this spring with an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, featuring artifacts, sculpture, drawings and paintings by Hudson River School artists, many of whom are buried at Green-Wood.
Other cemeteries across the country -- some, like Woodlawn and Green-Wood, are national historic landmarks -- are also aggressively offering museumlike tours and programs to educate and entertain the public, in some cases playing down their original purpose as burial grounds. ''We're not just a cemetery,'' said Joseph P. Dispenza, the president of Forest Lawn in Buffalo, explaining why ''cemetery'' was deleted from its title.
At Woodlawn, many initiatives are being underwritten by a group formerly known as the Friends of the Woodlawn Cemetery, newly renamed the Woodlawn Conservancy, whose goal, the Woodlawn president John P. Toale said, ''is to raise money for long-term preservation, education and promotion of the cemetery as a cultural resource.''
Elsewhere the story is similar. ''There are quite a few cultural institutions in our town and all are targeting the same audience interested in supporting cultural organizations,'' said Bree Harvey, vice president for cemetery and visitor services at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Mass., whose historic collections are curated by a member of the American Alliance of Museums.
Since 2001, under Ms. Harvey's direction, Mount Auburn has more than doubled its annual programs and today offers 130. They range from a tour focused on Boston shipbuilders buried in the cemetery to a talk on the feminist Margaret Fuller, also buried there, to a ''signs of spring'' horticultural tour.
David Charles Sloane, a professor of urban planning at the University of Southern California and author of ''The Last Great Necessity: Cemeteries in American History,'' said the events many cemeteries now offer gave them ''ways to advertise their services as well as to re-establish their cultural relevance'' after being dismissed by the 20th-century art world ''as places of middlebrow art, symbols of the representative art that abstraction and modern art rejected.''
''Art and culture have become important parts of America's economy,'' Professor Sloane added. ''Cemeteries are, along with the museums and historic sites, simply recognizing the potential for visibility based on their resources.'' At Forest Lawn in Buffalo, Mr. Dispenza, a onetime Broadway musical performer, has brought a bit of show business to his current position. Its recent annual holiday show was narrated by an actor playing John Lay, the first person buried at Forest Lawn. Mr. Dispenza also helped oversee construction at Forest Lawn of a mausoleum designed by Frank Lloyd Wright, but never built, for Darwin D. Martin, an executive of the Larkin Soap Company, for whom Wright also designed the famous Larkin Administration Building in Buffalo. Forest Lawn sells crypts at the mausoleum, which opened in 2004. This year it will also open a new $1 million, 8,000-square-foot archive and resource center.
Spring Grove Cemetery and Arboretum, opened in Cincinnati in 1845 after a cholera epidemic, offers a range of events to lure the public. Every fall, the cemetery, which is the burial place of the founders of Procter & Gamble and Gibson, the greeting card company, has a car show for owners of vehicles more than 30 years old. The 2012 show attracted 23,000 visitors, said Gary Freytag, president and chief executive.
''We're a repository of a lot of Cincinnati history and we want to find ways to share it,'' Mr. Freytag said. ''The perception is we only bury the rich elite and that we're full, but neither is true. We want to build awareness and our relationships with people of Cincinnati, so when or if they have need for a cemetery or funeral services, they will call us.''
William Clendaniel, former president and chief executive of Mount Auburn and founder of the Historic Cemeteries Alliance, said cemeteries' activities were ''fulfilling the need and desire on people's part to learn more about these places on all levels.''
''We are outdoor museums, and like all museums, part of our mission is education,'' he said.
Elizabeth Merritt, founding director of the Center for the Future of Museums, an initiative of the American Alliance of Museums, said the increasing urbanization of North America boded well for urban cemeteries trying to promote themselves as museums. If people in cities want to connect with nature, ''they are going to look for a 'third place' that will fit that need,'' she predicted. ''It may be a public park; it may be a cemetery.''
But what about maintaining an atmosphere of respect for those buried there? Mount Auburn forbids activities like bike-riding and dog-walking, but it encourages ''passive recreation'' like bird-watching and photography. And, in any case, the opening of cemeteries to public uses is not new. Woodlawn has welcomed visitors since early last century.
''The most disrespectful thing to do to the dead is to forget them,'' Mr. Dispenza said. ''Surrounding the dead with the living and with museumlike activities ensures the dead will not be forgotten.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: STONE AND TITANS: The family mausoleums of the railroad baron Collis P. Huntington, top, and, above, of the Harkness family, heirs to a Standard Oil fortune, are at Woodlawn in the Bronx. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN PETIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); CEMETERIES (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (50%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (71%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



682 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Museums; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: A Country Music Temple Stays in Financial Tune

BYLINE: By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI

 BODY:
VINCE GILL was there, singing about his wife's smile. Emmylou Harris started off with ''Love Hurts.'' Jason Aldean sang ''Big Green Tractor,'' and laughed about hitting the big time with a tune about a farm vehicle. Late last month, they and a handful of other country music stars were gathered in a Times Square theater for a ''guitar pull,'' an improvised concert at which anything might happen.
On this particular night, the guitar pull was far from aimless, though. It was ''All for the Hall'' -- a benefit for the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, which, like all good country music songs, has a strong story line of its own. It's one that is rare among cultural institutions.
At a time when the troubled economy is causing many museums to pull back, the hall is blasting ahead with an expansion that will more than double its size to 350,000 square feet. It has raised $71.6 million, including a $4 million gift from Taylor Swift, in a $100 million capital campaign. 
Notably, the project depends on a public-private financial deal orchestrated by Nashville's mayor, Karl Dean, that will structurally connect the hall to a new Omni Hotel, which is adjacent to the city's new $623 million downtown convention hall, Music City Center.
The hall's day-to-day operational model is equally unusual. Instead of relying heavily on donations, it typically draws more than 70 percent of its operating budget from admissions, retail sales, events, building rentals and food and beverage sales. Last year, those activities contributed about 85 percent of a $12 million budget. ''We've known no other way,'' said Kyle Young, the museum's director since 1999.
That is far from the way most museums operate. Although there are no reliable industry statistics on the subject, Dan L. Monroe, executive director of the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass., and a former president of the Association of Art Museum Directors, said that the highest earned income he had ever seen was about 40 percent. Museums cover the rest of their expenses with donations, endowments and, sometimes, government support.
Nor would many museums want to depend so heavily on earned income. It's too unpredictable, too dependent on attendance. Museums employ highly educated staffs that, years in advance, organize special exhibitions (with high attendant costs like insurance, scholarly catalogs and so on), acquire expensive art and conserve objects in their collections, among other things. ''The financial dynamics of the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum are dramatically different than the financial dynamics at art museums,'' Mr. Monroe said.
David Gordon, a former director of the Milwaukee Art Museum and the Royal Academy in London, says the hall's model is applicable only ''to something like country music that already has more popular appeal than fine arts.''
Mr. Young, who started at the hall as a ticket-taker more than 30 years ago and never left to get the law degree he had planned, agrees to some extent with Mr. Gordon. ''We are dealing with rich, rich subject matter -- this is art from the working man, and it gives the material broad appeal,'' he said.
Still, he added, ''museums could be a lot more creative about the way they do earn money.'' The hall is not just a shrine to its members, each of whom has a bronze plaque engraved with his or her likeness, arrayed in a soaring rotunda, or a place to hear music. ''People always forget the other half of our name, 'and Museum,' '' said Steve Turner, the board chairman. Accredited by the American Alliance of Museums (unlike the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the Experience Music Project and the Grammy Museum), it has a curatorial staff of 14, out of a full-time staff of 75.
While the hall does hold many performances in a 213-seat theater, people also come to see the collection, which has more than two million items and grows every year, largely through donations. Among them are Maybelle Carter's 1928 guitar, Bill Monroe's 1923 mandolin, and dozens of other historic instruments; Dolly Parton's handwritten lyrics to ''Jolene''; documentary footage of Marty Robbins, Jimmie Rodgers and Carl Smith, among others; clothes worn by the likes of Roy Rogers, Minnie Pearl and Faron Young; and Thomas Hart Benton's final painting, ''The Sources of Country Music,'' commissioned by the museum in 1973.
The museum also mounts changing exhibitions, on subjects like Patsy Cline and the Bakersfield Sound. And it operates RCA Studio B, where stars recorded hit after hit, including Roy Orbison (''Only the Lonely''), the Everly Brothers (''All I Have to Do Is Dream'') and Don Gibson (''Oh Lonesome Me''). Elvis Presley alone recorded 150 tracks there.
Last year, attendance hit 564,777, the largest in its 45-year history. That is what drives revenue. Admission, $24 for adults, plus $11 for those touring Studio B, is the source of about 40 percent of the hall's revenue, compared with 10 percent at best for most art museums.
''We started looking at a diverse revenue base in the '80s, as a way to build equity in the brand and earn revenue,'' Mr. Young said. The hall rents space to a couple of hundred events every year, which last year brought in 7 percent of the budget, and operates its own museum store and restaurants, which together accounted for 31 percent.
''We need to own whatever we can,'' Mr. Young said -- in contrast to museums that rent their space to restaurateurs, for example. ''Part of our guiding philosophy is having a great staff and great management. We operate in the black because we keep a keen eye on expenses.''
The Hatch Show Print shop, which has been making letterpress posters for entertainment acts for decades, is a management case in point. When the Gaylord Entertainment Company gave it to the hall in 1992, it was losing money. Last year, it made nearly $1 million in profit. It's being expanded -- not just to increase sales, but to accommodate more school groups and add fellowships for young artists who want to experiment with a printing process that is more than a century old.
When it opens next year, the bigger hall will have more room for exhibitions, classrooms, archives and just about everything else, including an 800-seat theater. Mr. Young expects his budget to grow to $40 million. If all goes as planned -- ''They are going to double attendance,'' Mayor Dean said -- the hall will continue to use the same business model, perhaps with a few tweaks. Mr. Young is courting the local audience, now just 8 percent of the total, in part to gain a donor base. And he wants to build an endowment.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Thursday with an article about expansion plans of the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum misstated the surname of one of the musicians shown performing at a fund-raising event for the hall. She is Ashley Monroe, not Moore.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NASHVILLE IN NEW YORK: From left, Emmylou Harris, Rodney Crowell, Vince Gill and Ashley Moore raise funds in Manhattan for the Country Music Hall. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTRY MUSIC (93%); MUSIC (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); BUDGETS (88%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (72%); CITIES (71%); RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (64%); STATISTICS (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



683 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 21

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Popular uprisings against the Taliban in Afghanistan; South Korean computers hit by hacking; a new treatment for acute leukemia; I.M.F. chief&#8217;s home is searched; a plan for more women at the European Central Bank; and sports in Vietnam. 

 BODY:
 NEWS An uprising against the Taliban that began last month in a southern Afghan village has now spread through dozens of others, according to residents and Afghan and American officials, in the most significant popular turning against the Islamist insurgents in recent years. Carlotta Gall reports from Pishin Gan Sayedan, Afghanistan. 
Showing solidarity with Israel's growing concern about chemical weapons in neighboring Syria, President Barack Obama stated bluntly on Wednesday that if an investigation he had ordered found proof that the Syrian military had used such weapons it would be a "game changer" in American involvement in the civil war there. Mark Landler and Rick Gladstone report from Jerusalem.
Scrambling to placate international lenders, Cyprus late Wednesday proposed to nationalize pension funds from state-run companies and conduct an emergency bond sale to help raise the (EURO)5.8 billion the indebted country needs to secure a bailout. Liz Alderman and David M. Herszenhorn report from Nicosia, Cyprus.
Computer networks running three major South Korean banks and the country's two largest broadcasters were paralyzed Wednesday in attacks that some experts suspected originated in North Korea, which has consistently threatened to cripple its far richer neighbor. Choe Sang-Hun reports from Seoul.
Once highly dependent on revenue from petroleum sales, the Syrian government has lost control of many of the country's major oil fields over the past few months as Kurdish forces and the rebel Free Syrian Army have made significant gains in the east. Josh Wood reports from Beirut.
The embattled prime minister of Australia, Julia Gillard, was fighting for her political life on Thursday after she accepted a public demand for a leadership ballot put forward by a senior lawmaker from her ruling Labor Party, who said that the party's only hope of prevailing in upcoming elections was to return to office the man Ms. Gillard deposed in a 2010 party coup. Matt Siegel reports from Sydney.
A treatment that genetically alters a patient's own immune cells to fight cancer has, for the first time, produced remissions in adults with an acute leukemia that is usually lethal, researchers are reporting. Denise Grady reports.
The French police on Wednesday searched the Paris apartment of Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, in connection with an investigation into her handling of a financial scandal when she was the French finance minister. Nicola Clark reports from Paris.
The main subsidiary of Suntech Power, one of the world's largest makers of solar panels, collapsed into bankruptcy on Wednesday in a remarkable reversal for what had been part of a huge Chinese government effort to dominate renewable energy industries. Keith Bradsher reports from Hong Kong.
The European Central Bank plans to begin using affirmative action to increase the number of employees who are women, a top bank official said Wednesday, acknowledging that men currently dominate the making of monetary policy. Jack Ewing reports from Frankfurt.
 ARTS China is in the midst of a museum-building binge, fueled by the nation's booming economy, but the Chinese are still sorting out what exactly they want from their museums. Holland Cotter reports.
 SPORTS A trip through Vietnam will show you that even if a country doesn't have thriving pro leagues or much money, it still enjoys playing - and watching - athletic pursuits. Christopher Clarey reports from Dien Bien Phu, Vietnam.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); EURO (88%); LEUKEMIA (88%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); COUPS (78%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); ARMIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); NATIONALIZATION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); DEBTOR NATIONS (73%); BONDS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); SCANDALS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); EXTERNAL DEBT (68%); CANCER (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (63%); SOLAR ENERGY (63%); MONETARY POLICY (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%) IHT Rendezvous

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (50%); JULIA GILLARD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (78%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (58%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); SYRIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CYPRUS (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); VIET NAM (90%); LEBANON (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



684 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: The Legacies of Iraq: An Ailing Press and an 'Invade or Nothing' Foreign Policy

BYLINE: DAVID ROHDE


HIGHLIGHT: A decade after Iraq, the American foreign policy debate has devolved into an &#8220;invade or not invade&#8221; dichotomy and the news media is one-third the size of the public-relations industry. 

 BODY:
American households will be blanketed this week by a torrent of coverage, commentary and regret about the 10th anniversary of the Iraq war. Liberals claim that Twitter - if it had existed - could have stopped the invasion. Conservatives argue that the links between Saddam Hussein and terrorism have, in fact, been underplayed.
The glaring lesson of the war is that American ground invasions destabilize the Middle East, instead of stabilizing it. The 100,000 Iraqis who perished, the 4,500 American soldiers killed and the $1 trillion spent should have halted what the Tufts University professor Daniel W. Drezner has called the "creeping militarization of American foreign policy." Instead, the civilian American institutions that failed us before Iraq have grown even weaker. 
The State Department is the first example. Mr. Drezner correctly argues that as the Pentagon's budget has ballooned in the decade after 9/11, so has its influence over American foreign policy. Too many former generals, he contends, have occupied important foreign policy positions.
That trend has slowed in the second Obama administration, but the budget, planning capabilities and training programs of the State Department are still laughably small compared with those of the U.S. military. Money equals power, influence and a seat at the table in Washington. As one former national security reporter put it to me, weak civilian institutions lead to fewer potential civilian responses to crises.
In his first major speech as secretary of state, John Kerry tried to put the size of the American civilian effort in perspective. He cited a recent poll that found most Americans believe the State Department and U.S. foreign aid programs consume 25 percent of federal spending. In fact, they receive 1 percent. (The military gets roughly 20 percent.)
Mr. Kerry's speech got virtually no press coverage. Just as they did a decade ago, the news media - a second vital American civilian institution - are failing us. This week the media are being correctly excoriated for their failure to be more skeptical of the Bush administration's central justification for the Iraq war: weapons of mass destruction that turned out not to exist.
In the months before the invasion, The New York Times published a series of exaggerated articles about unconventional weapons by Judith Miller on its front page. At the same time, editors at The Times and other mainstream outlets largely ignored intrepid reports by Knight-Ridder newspapers that questioned the administration's claims about such weapons.
Ten years later, Ms. Miller is a Fox News contributor. A harrowing report released by the Pew Research Center on Monday found that the numbers of full-time professional editorial staff at newspapers have declined by 24 percent since 1989. A separate analysis found that the ratio of public-relations professionals to reporters grew from 1.2 to 1 in 1980 to 3.6 to 1 in 2008.
The rise of social media and citizen journalism arguably fill the void created by dwindling newspaper resources. Eric Boehlert of Media Matters, the left-of-center media watchdog, argued this week that Twitter could have forced mainstream reporters to do a better job before the Iraq invasion. He cited recent cases of mainstream newspaper columnists being forced to respond to a torrent of criticism on Twitter about pieces they wrote.
Jonathan Landay, one of the Knight-Ridder reporters whose pre-invasion work questioning the evidence for unconventional weapons evidence received little attention, said social media might have made a difference. But he hesitated to say Twitter would have silenced the White House.
"Had The New York Times, Washington Post and the networks done the kind of reporting that we had, could the administration have been able to take the country to war? I don't know," Mr. Landay said in an e-mail message. "But social media would have brought far more attention to our work, and perhaps more journalists would have followed our lead."
Looking back, Mr. Landay, a former colleague and longtime friend who now reports for McClatchy, blamed the news media and U.S. intelligence agencies. "The mainstream news media was as egregious in its failure to do its job," he wrote, "as the U.S. intelligence community was in its failure to produce accurate intelligence on Iraq's non-existent WMD."
Today, fears of "another Iraq" dominate America's foreign policy debate. The choice is binary. The United States can respond to a foreign policy threat by carrying out a risky ground invasion. Or it can do nothing at all. Diplomatic, economic and other nonmilitary attempts to influence events overseas are given short shrift. Any American involvement will make the situation worse, the argument goes, and create another quagmire.
The Arab Spring showed that people in the Middle East desire democracy. Young Arabs, in particular, want self-determination, jobs and modernity. Washington has an interest in helping them but no inclination - and few nonmilitary tools - to do so.
The United States continues to view military force as its principal means of addressing foreign policy challenges. Far more options are available. Every country is not Iraq.

        
10 Years After the Invasion of Iraq, a World of Hurt
        
Tweeters Urge Leaders to Give Peace a Chance
        
Decoding the French Presidential Election Early
        
Keeping Alcohol Out of War Zones
        
Baron Von Fancy Goes to Paris

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); FOREIGN POLICY (92%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); BUDGETS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TRENDS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (68%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (55%) Iraq War (2003-11); Twitter; Iraq; View From America

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (81%); MCCLATCHY CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Twitter

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



685 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: The Doctor's New Prescription: A Lawyer

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN


HIGHLIGHT: Elderly people often need legal help, and law students need experience. Some health care institutions are making the match. 

 BODY:
Consider the geriatricians working at the Lakeside Senior Medical Center, an outpatient clinic at the University of California, San Francisco. Many of their patients, despite multiple chronic diseases and advanced age, have never filled out power-of-attorney documents or appointed someone to make health care decisions if they are unable to.
Sometimes, the doctors suspect their patients might qualify for public benefits they are not getting, like food stamps or MediCal, the state's version of Medicaid. Perhaps they face problems with landlords or appear to be victims of financial abuse, or they ought to have a simple will. 
In other words, they need lawyers. But trying to get frail, low-income seniors to consult an elder attorney can seem an insurmountable problem. How will they travel to a law office? Or pay a fee that can reach $300 an hour? Even if the doctors can refer them to a legal aid office, will their elderly patients actually make an appointment? Then remember to go?
At Lakeside there is a simpler solution, said Sarah Hooper, who teaches at the University of California Hastings College of the Law. "The physicians do the initial screenings, hear what their patients' problems are, take the history - and they essentially write a prescription: 'Go down the hall and see my friends at U.C. Hastings for help with this housing issue,' " she said.
Each semester, eight Hastings law students spend 12 to 15 hours a week at the clinic, the Medical-Legal Partnership for Seniors. Supervised by both the law school and the U.C.S.F. faculty, the clinic "reduces so many barriers to getting legal help," said the legal director, Yvonne Troya.
Since the partnership began in September, her second- and third-year students have worked with about 40 elderly clients. "They don't trust lawyers," Ms. Troya said, a bit ruefully. "But they really trust their doctors." 
One client was eligible for S.S.I., Social Security disability payments, but "we noticed she was only receiving about $600 a month when in California you can get $866," Ms. Troya said. "She'd been just scraping by, living with relatives who are also very low-income."
After Hastings students documented all her expenses and the error she had made in reporting them, and accompanied her to the local Social Security office, the woman's monthly benefit rose by a third. "Such a practical difference for this person," Ms. Troya said.
Her team is also working with a man with severe dementia and his wife, whose own health is deteriorating as she struggles to care for him. He receives 100 hours of paid home care a month through the state, which was sufficient for a while but not anymore. "This woman stays up all night when she really needs her sleep," said Amanda Hamilton, a second-year student working with the couple. "The children come over and take time from their own families. It's draining everyone."
So Ms. Hamilton and her student partner have applied for more home care help, up to the maximum of 283 hours monthly. "It's fairly complicated," she said. "It has to be a really strong case." But they think they have one.
Most clients, however, need advance directives, something even sick people in their 90s can be reluctant to think about. Sometimes, the lawyers-in-training find, it helps to make house calls. "Visiting them in their homes makes them a lot more comfortable," Ms. Hamilton said. The students also participate in a seminar, taught by Ms. Troya and Ms. Hooper, and meet with clinic physicians.
Close to 100 medical-legal partnerships are already functioning at health care institutions and universities around the country, reflecting the idea that "there are so many social and economic factors that contribute to health," Ms. Hooper said. "Focusing only on the biological factors isn't going to solve anything."
But the great majority of those partnerships work with children. The U.C.S.F.-Hastings clinic is one of a handful specializing in the elderly, along with programs at the University of Miami, Wake Forest University and the University of St. Thomas in Minneapolis. 
You would think there would be more. In fact, Ms. Troya said she thought there soon would be.
On the one hand, we have an aging population, for whom understanding a legal document and getting it witnessed and notarized can be daunting - even if people don't have to do battle over benefits. On the other, we have law schools scrambling for ways to give their students hands-on experience. These folks need each other.
"It's a complicated area of law, with many overlapping issues - psychology, health care, family relationships," Ms. Troya said. "It's important for young lawyers to become knowledgeable about it. And practitioners tell us it's a very rewarding field."

        
Taking a Zen Approach to Caregiving
        
Who Should Receive Organ Transplants?
        
A Better Way to Help With Medical Decisions
        
No End to Trauma for Some Older Veterans
        
New Data to Consider in D.N.R. Decisions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); GERIATRICS (90%); AGING (90%); LEGAL AID (90%); POWER OF ATTORNEY (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MEDICAID (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LIVING WILLS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); LAWYERS (74%); DEMENTIA (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%) eldercare; legal assistance; Soc; Elderly; Legal Profession; Living Wills and Health Care Proxies; University of California, Hastings College of the Law; San Francisco (Calif); Finances & Legalities

ORGANIZATION: University of California, Hastings College of the Law

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) San Francisco (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



686 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 174 words

HEADLINE: Today's Scuttlebot: Bezos Raises Moon Rockets, and False Face of the Drone

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The technology reporters and editors of The New York Times scour the Web for important and peculiar items. For Thursday, selections include cybersecurity as a booming business for lobbyists, a woman says a man made sexist comments and they are both fired, and young wealth in the San Francisco Bay area. 

 BODY:
Here are some of the more interesting items that the tech reporters and editors of The New York Times found on the Web recently. More Scuttlebot can be found here. 
'Canonical' Image of a Drone Is a Rendering Dressed Up in Photoshop
Theatlantic.com | One of the most popular images of a drone is false. Just because it's all over the Internet doesn't mean it's true. - Howell Murray
Rocket Man
Space.com | Amazon's Jeff Bezos, a space buff, is recovering from the ocean floor the Saturn V engines that took man to the moon. - David Streitfeld
SendGrid Fires Employee for Outing a Sexist Joke
Venturebeat.com | A woman posts what is supposed to be a developer's picture and sexist comments on Twitter. He is fired. Then she is. - Quentin Hardy
Cybersecurity Lobby Surges as Congress Considers New Laws
Bloomberg.com | Washington lobbyists just love cybersecurity. - Damon Darlin
The Bacon-Wrapped Economy
Eastbayexpress.com | Wave machines and pigs on spits, just a typical office party at Google. A story about the young rich of the Valley. - Nick Bilton

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); LEGISLATION (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (84%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



687 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: The Risks of Expanding Into Australia, Part 2

BYLINE: TOM SZAKY


HIGHLIGHT: The role of a general manager evolves dramatically in the first few years; unfortunately, only about half of our G.M.&#8217;s survive the transition. 

 BODY:
In my last post, I wrote about our plans to open our 22nd foreign office in Australia. We have checked the very important first few boxes in our process to conduct a successful foreign-office opening with limited risk and investment - including finding a general manager, Anna Minns, who will start drawing a salary as soon as we start invoicing. Most important, we have a few partnership deals that are close to closing.
Our partnership deals rely on major brands to finance our ability to take their non-recyclable waste - cigarette butts, chip bags, etc. We have incorporated, and we have our Australian bank accounts set up. In anticipation of the deals closing, we have identified operational partners - a warehouse, manufacturers, etc. - to help us run our recycling operations. Pending commitments from our partners, we plan to introduce TerraCycle Australia this summer from a new office in Sydney. 
The big question is not whether we will open but how successful we will be. This will depend primarily on the people we hire and how well we manage and support them. I've found that a business model that works in a few countries generally works well in similar markets, and Australia is a similar market to the United States. Australians speak English, and the economy functions under Western principles. Perhaps the country most comparable to Australia is Canada, and Canada is often the first foreign market that an expanding American company will enter, typically followed by Britain.
The role of a general manager evolves dramatically in the first few years; unfortunately, only about half of our G.M.'s survive the transition. In the beginning, Anna will have to manage everything from operations to client relations. We support this by having a team of global leaders, based in our headquarters in Trenton, N.J., who manage each department globally.
That means Anna will get support from Michael, our global head of client management; Kevin, our global head of operations; and 10 other leaders on a department-by-department basis. Doing this gives us global cohesiveness and allows us to have multiple people overseeing our people and operations. There can be instances where a local G.M. may think everything is going well but our department head thinks otherwise. This redundancy is critical, especially when we are asking an individual to take on such a wide range of responsibilities.
In addition, we ask each team to submit detailed monthly reports. The reports are sent to every staff member and reviewed by the senior team on a monthly basis. Those notes are then forwarded to every other employee to make sure everyone knows how we are doing. By maximizing oversight and transparency, we are able to offer the best possible support to our local G.M.'s, and we can also keep track of what is happening in our far-flung markets.
That's especially important because the role of the G.M. will change quickly for Anna as her business unit grows. As she brings on more partners, her budget will grow and she will be permitted to hire more employees. When this happens, her role will evolve from doing every function herself to managing a team.
We opened our office in Mexico in 2009, for example, and today it has 14 people. As you can imagine, the role of our G.M. in Mexico has changed dramatically in the past few years as the office has grown. The growth of the office was not a smooth ride - in fact, we changed G.M.'s four times.
Our first Mexican G.M. was terrific when he was working in Trenton but he struggled in Mexico - not everyone is cut out to work remotely. We then hired a young entrepreneur I had met while giving a talk in Hermosillo. He was 20 at the time, but I generally don't worry too much about age (I started TerraCycle at 21 and am 31 today). But it turned out that getting a business off the ground and running it was too much for him, and we agreed that a transition would be appropriate. We went through one more G.M., who resigned because of the pressure, before we landed our current G.M., Isaac, who has done a fantastic job the past few years.
Hiring can be tricky for any position, but it's especially tricky for a position that will evolve in a market that you may not fully understand. For me, the biggest lesson I have learned opening offices in 22 other countries is that the success or failure of a foreign office will be determined almost entirely by the abilities of the talent that you deploy there.
 Tom Szaky is the chief executive of TerraCycle, which is based in Trenton. 

        
The Risks of Expanding Into Australia
        
When You Hire the Right Person for the Wrong Position
        
Getting New Employees Off to a Good Start
        
Are Big Clients Worth the Effort for This Web Start-Up?
        
You Have Identified the Candidates. How Do You Pick the Right One?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); WASTE REDUCTION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%) Australia; Hiring and Promotion; Recycling of Waste Materials; Small Business; TerraCycle; Sustainable Profits

ORGANIZATION: TerraCycle

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (73%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (68%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%) Australia

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



688 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Workers Still Uneasy About Retirement Finances

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Many workers essentially guess about how much money they&#8217;ll need in retirement, a survey finds. 

 BODY:
Americans remain uneasy about their retirement finances despite a brightening economic outlook - perhaps because it is dawning on them just how much they have to save, a long-running survey finds. 
The percentage of workers who are confident about having enough money for a "comfortable" retirement is unchanged from the record lows of 2011, the survey from the Employee Benefit Research Institutefound.
More than half express some level of confidence, but 21 percent are "not too" confident and 28 percent are "not at all" confident - the highest level of people not at all confident in the 23 years of the Retirement Confidence Survey. The survey is sponsored by the institute and Mathew Greenwald & Associates, and financed by roughly two dozen businesses and nonprofit groups.
The survey was conducted in January using 20-minute telephone interviews with 1,003 adult workers and 251 retirees. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
It may be that the reality of difficult savings ahead is dawning.
A "striking" number of workers cite large targets when asked how much they will need to save to ensure a financially secure retirement, the survey found. Twenty percent said they needed to save between 20 and 29 percent of their income, and nearly a fourth said they needed to save 30 percent or more. But only about half said they had tried to formally calculate how much they will need to save to retire comfortably; the rest essentially guessed.
"Aggressive as those savings targets appear to be, they may not be based on a careful analysis of their individual circumstances," Jack VanDerhei, the institute's research director and co-author of the report, said in a statement.
Worker savings remain "modest," and less than half of workers appear to be taking basic steps needed to prepare for retirement, the survey found. More than half who provided financial information for the survey reported less than $25,000 in total household savings and investments, excluding the value of their home and any pension.
Americans also lack much of a financial cushion. Only about half of workers, and a comparable number of retirees, say they definitely could come up with $2,000 for an unexpected expense in the next month.
Are you able to save both for retirement and unexpected expenses?

        
Free Retirement Advice, From Professionals
        
Financial Tips for Younger Adults
        
The Risks of Transferring a Car Loan to a Credit Card
        
Viewing the Glass as Half Full, but Not Too Full
        
Delaying Retirement, for Love and for Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (95%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%) Pensions and Retirement Plans; Personal Finances; Polls and Public Opinion; Savings

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



689 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Agency Warns Lenders on Bias in Auto Loans

BYLINE: NADIA TAHA


HIGHLIGHT: The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau takes on auto dealers and lenders who are engaging in discriminatory lending practices. 

 BODY:
The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau laid out its authority over auto lenders on Thursday and warned them to comply with fair lending requirements. The agency said that it was issuing the new instructions in response to discriminatory practices that resulted in Hispanic and black borrowers illegally being charged higher rates than whites for auto loans. 
The guidelines affect both auto dealers and third-party lenders that make loans through dealers. 
"Today's bulletin clarifies our authority to pursue auto lenders whose policies harm consumers through unlawful discrimination," said Richard Cordray, the director of the agency.
Auto loans are the third-largest source of consumer debt, after mortgages and student loans. Americans owe a total of $783 billion in auto loans, which average $26,691, the agency said.
The Equal Credit Opportunity Act prohibits lenders from considering race, color, religion, national origin, sex, marital status or age when making any decision regarding a loan.
Indirect lenders work with auto dealers by quoting an interest rate to the dealer at which they are willing to make a loan to someone buying a car. Dealers are then allowed to "mark up" that rate by as much as 3 percent, which they keep as profit. The consumer agency said that this practice could result in similarly creditworthy borrowers paying different rates on their auto loans.
"Consumers should not have to pay more for a car loan simply based on their race," said Mr. Cordray. 
The agency recommended changing the markup to a flat rate per transaction, instead of giving dealers an incentive to inflate rates for some consumers. The agency also urged indirect lenders to more carefully monitor markups and ensure they comply with the fair lending laws.
What was your experience with an auto loan the last time you bought a car?

        
Campus Banking Practices Come Under Scrutiny
        
Still More Mortgage Protections Unveiled
        
Keeping a Closer Eye on Student Loan Servicing Firms
        
Telemarketer That Aimed at the Elderly Is Shut Down
        
Consumer Groups Urge Scrutiny of Car Title Loans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (92%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (92%); FAIR LENDING (92%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ETHNICITY (70%); RELIGION (53%) Automobiles; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Cordray, Richard; Discrimination; Race and Ethnicity

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

PERSON: Cordray, Richard

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



690 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Burgers, Fries and Lies

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: There&#8217;s nothing wrong with asking businesses to pay for a small part of the problem they helped create. 

 BODY:
The old adage - what will not kill you makes you only stronger - certainly doesn't apply to a bacon cheeseburger from Five Guys Burgers and Fries. This tasty gut bomb delivers two days' worth of saturated fat and nearly 1,000 calories, a la carte. I hacked my way through one of these heart-stoppers the other day, and though I still have a pulse, it stayed with me in ways that would not please any doctor. 
Immersion journalism was called for after a Five Guys franchise owner, Mike Ruffer, complained last week about the new law requiring him to offer his employees health care next year. At first, he thought Obamacare's mandate wouldn't apply to him. 
"I was fat, dumb and happy," said Ruffer, who employs 147 people at his eight burger outlets in the Raleigh-Durham, N.C., area. "I'm not happy anymore." I will take him at his word on the dumb part. 
As for the rest, here's a guy selling something that is a leading contributor to the major health breakdowns in America, a product that may ultimately hasten an early death. He won't offer insurance to the poorly paid workers who make said time bombs. But now that he's forced to, and plans to raise prices to cover the care, he thinks this is an awful thing. 
And Five Guys is not exactly struggling. It is the fastest growing restaurant chain in our fast food nation, with revenue projected to pass $1 billion this year.

In the burger master's view, the government is forcing him to "pass on the costs to customers," he said. But he already passes on considerable costs to customers who may never sniff a Five Guys fry. Because he doesn't give his employees health care, they show up as charity cases at the hospital emergency room when something goes wrong. Last year, the uninsured cost the system $39.3 billion. Guess whom the expenses are passed on to? 
This argument - trying to shame those who don't pay for health insurance and who force those who do to pick up their costs - was originally made by the conservative Heritage Foundation. The mandate was the basis of Mitt Romney's successful health care overhaul in Massachusetts and is the basis for President Obama's Affordable Care Act. 
But now that the Heritage Foundation has turned against its policy progeny, it needs to flip the debate. So, Mike Ruffer was brought in as the star witness at a Heritage forum designed to show just how egregious it is that businesses will have to provide health care for their employees, or pay a fine. Right wing media - Drudge, Breitbart, Fox - played their part, sounding alarms over a cheeseburger that may cost an additional quarter.
But what the Heritage histrionics unintentionally showed was everything that is absurd, wrong and darkly humorous about the American approach to diet and health care economics. 
Consider the business. Five Guys is a great success story. Started in the Washington, D.C., metro area by the family of Jerry Murrell in 1986, it has since expanded to more than 1,000 locations. The family stake in the company is worth about $375 million, according to Forbes. Even President Obama has made a pit stop at the Zagat-rated burger shack. Without doubt, the burgers and fries are addictive. 
But they are not necessarily good for you. The Center for Science in the Public Interest placed Five Guys' bacon cheeseburger on its 2010 list of the most unhealthy meals in America. With fries and soda, that single meal runs to about 2,500 calories.
Heart disease kills more than 600,000 Americans every year and is the leading cause of death. Excess weight, and diets heavy high in saturated fat, have long been identified as high risk factors for heart disease.
And sure, not everyone who consumes double cheeseburgers on a regular basis is going to have life-threatening health troubles. But there's plenty of evidence to suggest that they will. (Last month, John Alleman, a man who scoffed at the warnings about his favorite restaurant, the Heart Attack Grill in Las Vegas, died of a heart attack. He was 52.)
"There's a part of me that would love to offer health care to my employees," said Ruffer, who is just one franchise owner and doesn't speak for the entire chain. What he will have to give up to comply with the new law, he said, is about $60,000 a year in profits. But if you weigh that figure against the price of coronary heart disease, which costs the United States $109 billion a year in care, medication and lost productivity, it's a pittance.
And in fact, after Ruffer went public with his whining, other Five Guys franchisees said they would work with the new law and offer insurance while still expanding their businesses. They shrugged off the fuss. 
But the stage managers at the Heritage Foundation, and their acolytes in Congress, would have us believe that asking a business like Five Guys Burgers and Fries to pay for a small part of the problem that they helped to create makes them a victim. Gulp.

        
Health Care's Good News
        
We Can Be Healthy and Rich
        
Spring Sequester
        
When Paying It Forward Pays Us Back
        
When the Patient Knows Best

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (86%); OILS & FATS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); FRANCHISEES (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); CONSERVATISM (68%); WITNESSES (62%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%) Fast Food Industry; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Heritage Foundation; Timothy Egan

ORGANIZATION: Heritage Foundation

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (71%); DURHAM, NC, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



691 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: The London Whale, Richard Fisher and Cyprus

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Standing on the sidelines or having theoretical discussions while the potential grows for big-bank damage to the economy is unacceptable, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
In the ordinary course of political events, months or even years pass between a definitive investigation and sensible policy remedies being proposed. There was a lag, for example, between the Pecora hearings in the 1933 and some of the modern securities legislation that followed. (Consider reading Michael Perino's book, "The Hellhound of Wall Street," or watch his 2009 conversation with Bill Moyers, in which I took part.)
We finally had a modern Pecora moment last Friday, when Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and John McCain of Arizona laid bare how JPMorgan Chase has been run since the financial crisis and since the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, which supposedly "reformed" banks. 
Within 24 hours, we had the clearest possible statement of how to think about the modern financial system - and make it less risky - in the form of a speech by Richard Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. The timing was presumably coincidental, yet it also reflects the speed with which smart people are reassessing the risks posed by the mismanagement of financial institutions. With Mr. Fisher as a thought leader, some of the best new ideas are being developed within the Federal Reserve System.
The question now is how fast attitudes will change within the Board of Governors, the seven presidential appointees who sit atop the Federal Reserve System. Unfortunately, at least two powerful governors seem to resist sensible further reform.
At its heart, the Levin-McCain report reveals executives with a profound misunderstanding of risk in the world's largest bank (I use the calculations of comparative bank size offered by Thomas Hoenig, vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation). Even worse, the report shows us in some detail that banks - even after Dodd-Frank - can and do readily manipulate complicated measures of risk in order to make their positions look safer than they really are.
As Jeremy Stein, a Fed governor, pointed out recently, there are strong incentives to do this repeatedly in banking organizations (read the opening few paragraphs of his speech carefully).
The banking regulators - in this case, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency - are clearly unable to keep up with this form of "financial innovation" (which is really just clever ways to misreport risk).
Did JPMorgan Chase's top management do this intentionally? Did they mislead investors, particularly in the fateful conference call on April 13, 2012? This is a fascinating question on which the courts will no doubt rule. (You should also review this report by Josh Rosner of Graham Fisher, with the link kindly provided by Better Markets.)
Jamie Dimon will survive because JPMorgan Chase remains profitable. But it is profitable precisely because it receives implicit subsidies from being too big to fail. JPMorgan Chase disputes the precise scale of these subsidies - as Idiscussed here last week. Let's just call them humongous.
This is not about individuals, this is about policy. And Richard Fisher has exactly the right approach:
At the Dallas Fed, we believe that whatever the precise subsidy number is, it exists, it is significant, and it allows the biggest banking organizations, along with their many nonbank subsidiaries (investment firms, securities lenders, finance companies), to grow larger and riskier.
This is patently unfair. It makes for an uneven playing field, tilted to the advantage of Wall Street against Main Street, placing the financial system and the economy in constant jeopardy.
It also undermines citizens' faith in the rule of law and representative democracy.
Mr. Fisher's speech is entitled "Ending 'Too Big To Fail,'" the same title as a recent speech by Jerome Powell, a governor of the Fed board (which I wrote about here recently).
The difference between Mr. Fisher's approach and what Mr. Powell proposes is significant, particularly regarding the timing for needed action.
Mr. Fisher wants to make the largest banks smaller - and particularly force investors to confront the reality that they will face losses when high-risk investment banking arms fail. In Mr. Fisher's words:
The downsized, formerly too-big-to-fail banks would then be just like the other 99.8 percent, failing with finality when necessary - closed on Friday and reopened on Monday under new ownership and management in the customary process administered by the F.D.I.C.
Mr. Powell, by contrast, is not willing to take any additional actions at this time. As far as we can see, the Fed's chairman, Ben Bernanke, is on the same side as Mr. Powell in this argument. But the Bernanke-Powell team is losing ground almost every day, at least on the merits of the argument. On Wednesday, Mr. Bernanke seemed to move a little closer to Mr. Fisher's position but did not go as far as he should. 
As Jesse Eisinger sums up the JPMorgan Chase mess with its multibillion-dollar trading loss last year, "Regulators remain their duped and docile selves." The view that "smart regulation" can rein in excessive risk-taking is completely implausible.
Cyprus now demonstrates that the case for limiting the size of individual banks relative to the size of the economy is beyond debate. The awful financial debacle in that country, including the fumbled bailout unfolding this week, is a further reminder of the dangerous ledge on which we live.
If you let a few banks become very large relative to the economy, then their missteps can cause enormous damage - and big costs that will fall on someone. The losses incurred by Cypriot banks - around 6 billion euros (almost $8 billion) - are roughly on the same scale as the losses suffered by JPMorgan Chase as a result of its failed "London Whale" trades.
As the Nobel laureate Christopher Pissarides points out, nothing about this situation is fair or good for economic prosperity. A few Cypriot banks bet big on Greek bonds, very big, and their losses are about one-third of Cypriot G.D.P. Why would anyone want bank executives and traders to be in a position to do this much damage to a country?
The question is only what the size cap should be - surely in the United States we should seek to be below the risk levels that built up in Cyprus (or Iceland or Switzerland or Britain). In fact, why should any single financial institution be big enough to damage the United States with its miscalculations or misrepresentations? Yet the existence of too-big-to-fail subsidies means that a financial company like JPMorgan Chase has motive and opportunity to become even larger.
The British have figured out that finance needs to become safer; the authorities there are pushing for higher capital levels (above what seems likely to happen in the United States). And Martin Wolf, an influential senior columnist at The Financial Times, has a ringing endorsement of Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig's new book, "The Bankers' New Clothes," on what is wrong with banking. Expect more British thinking to follow in this direction.
Why, in the United States, are we standing by?
As with so much in our economy today, much depends on the Federal Reserve. The Fed could do a great deal by itself to make the largest banks smaller and safer; the F.D.I.C. is ready to move in this direction.
The Fed likes to look to Congress for action. But Congress will not act unless so advised by the Fed.
It's time for Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Powell to listen more carefully to Mr. Fisher - as they watch the awful events in Cyprus.

        
From Lehman to Cyprus
        
Big Banks Have a Big Problem
        
Filling a Fed Vacuum in Bank Supervision
        
Bernanke's Credibility on 'Too Big to Fail'
        
Twelve Angry Central Bankers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WRITERS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); POLITICS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (67%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (57%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Cyprus; Dimon, James; Federal Reserve System; Fisher, Richard W; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Powell, Jerome H; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Today's Economist

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (68%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); CARL LEVIN (57%) Dimon, James; Fisher, Richard W; Powell, Jerome H

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Cyprus

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



692 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Changing the Culture of College Application

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Changing the application and enrollments patterns of high-achieving, low-income students will probably take an enormous amount of initial work. Over time, though, the work will get easier. 

 BODY:
When Central Magnet High School opened in Bridgeport, Conn., almost 30 years ago, few of its students thought about applying to selective colleges. 
The school is a magnet school, housed inside a larger regular high school. To be admitted, students need to maintain a minimum grade point average in junior high school and, in some cases, win a spot through a lottery. In the 1980s, as today, the parents of the vast majority of Central Magnet's students did not attend college themselves.
George Moran was a guidance counselor at the school when it opened, and he is still a guidance counselor there, working his final year before retirement. I quoted him in Sunday's article about a new study finding that most high-achieving, low-income students did not attend a selective college. 
 The pattern is especially worrisome because many of those students end up attending colleges near their homes with low graduation rates - and a significant portion do not earn a college degree. The median weekly pay of full-time workers with a four-year college degree was 55 percent greater last year than the pay of workers attending some college but without a four-year degree, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. If anything, that figure understates the gap, because college graduates are also more likely to have a full-time job than those not graduating from college. 
The evolution of Central Magnet over the last 30 years, in Mr. Moran's telling, highlights how this pattern might change. Over the years, more Central Magnet students began to apply to and attend selective colleges. As they did, the students in subsequent years began to see applying to those colleges as a normal thing to do. Moving 50 miles, or hundreds of miles, away from home was no longer deeply unusual for a top student.
By now, Central Magnet graduates have attended all eight Ivy League universities, liberal arts colleges like Amherst, Colgate, Haverford, Vassar and even Rice University, some 1,500 miles away, in Houston. "All these schools that were completely unheard of in the last five years are suddenly standard fare," Mr. Moran said. Among the 140 or so students in a senior class at Central Magnet, more than 70 percent enroll in a four-year college and about 20 percent enroll in a two-year college, he said.
Most high schools with large numbers of low-income students still resemble the Central Magnet of the 1980s, based on the results of the new study, which is by Caroline M. Hoxby of Stanford and Christopher Avery of Harvard. The students do not apply to selective colleges partly because the colleges have not been aggressive in recruiting them. And even if a college has reached them and urged them to come, many students cannot fathom doing so. They may not know anyone who has attended such a college, Ms. Hoxby notes.
David Hunter, chief executive of QuestBridge, a California organization that helps award scholarships to top low-income students nationwide, told me that some students who received the group's material in the mail did not initially know what to make of it. "Some of them think it could be a scam," Mr. Hunter said. (And indeed, scholarship swindles surely exist.) 
It is an expensive mistake for students to make, given that QuestBridge helps a few hundred students a year earn full scholarships to colleges like Bowdoin, Brown, Carleton, M.I.T., Northwestern, Notre Dame, Princeton, Virginia and Williams. But it's also understandable. 
Of course, a student who knows someone who previously won such a scholarship would not make that mistake - just as today's Central Magnet students are more likely to consider colleges that match their academic profiles.
For colleges and policy makers, it's a lesson in inertia. Changing the application and enrollments patterns of high-achieving, low-income students will probably take an enormous amount of initial work. Over time, though, the work will get easier.

        
The Leading Liberal Against Affirmative Action
        
Yes, Even Young College Graduates Have Low Unemployment
        
A Closer Look at College Completion Rates for Full-Time Students
        
Only Half of First-Time College Students Graduate in 6 Years
        
College Premium: Better Pay, Better Prospects

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (95%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (75%); GRADES & GRADING (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); STATISTICS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%) Admissions Standards; Avery, Christopher; Colleges and Universities; Hoxby, Caroline M

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (75%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



693 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: The Hard Math on Fossil Fuels

BYLINE: EDUARDO PORTER


HIGHLIGHT: Even the recent reduction in carbon-dioxide emissions in the United States is not nearly sharp enough to avoid reaching what climate scientists consider the prudent limit in global warming within decades. 

 BODY:
How close is the world to devastating climate upheaval? My column on Wednesday argued that the natural gas boom is helping the United States reduce its emissions of heat-trapping carbon into the air, encouraging power generators to switch to gas from the much dirtier coal. American CO2 emissions last year totaled about 5.25 billion tons - almost 13 percent less than in 2007. 
But as some readers argued, the decline is so modest that it is almost irrelevant. To stop the world's temperature from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) above the pre-industrial era - considered by most climate scientists as the prudent limit - emissions must fall much faster. 
In fact, keeping to the target probably requires that a good share of the world's fossil fuel remains untapped.
Fatih Birol, chief economist of the International Energy Agency, told me the atmosphere could absorb at most another one trillion tons of CO2. It got almost 32 billion tons in 2011 alone, 3.2 percent more than the year before. 
Even if emissions were to remain at the same level as last year - a highly unlikely prospect given the rapid growth of energy consumption in countries like China - the global economy, in about 30 years, would have to stop relying on fossil fuels entirely.
Most of the carbon in the ground is in the form of coal. But the world's known reserves of oil and gas contain about one trillion tons of CO2. Applying Mr. Birol's limit would require Saudi Arabia, Gazprom and Exxon to leave some of their reserves in the ground. They are unlikely to take kindly to this. 
What's more, Mr. Birol's numbers may be too optimistic. Estimates by the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany - reported by the Carbon Tracker Initiative in Britain - suggest that to keep the odds of exceeding the 2-degree ceiling below 20 percent, no more than 565 billion tons of CO2 can be put into the air over the next 40 years. That would require cutting the world's total emissions by more than half, to about 14 tons a year. 
Look at it this way: the world's carbon intensity - the amount of carbon emitted into the atmosphere for each dollar of economic production - fell about 0.8 percent a year over the last decade or so. According to a study by PricewaterhouseCoopers, avoiding a 2-degree rise requires a decline in emissions of 5.1 percent a year - every year until 2050. 
As the PricewaterhouseCoopers study suggests, it might be "too late for 2 degrees."

        
America's Fossil-Fuels Jobs Boom
        
The True Cost of Carbon
        
Gasoline Lines Are Unnecessary
        
The Political Geography of Gasoline Prices
        
Was Qaddafi Overpaid?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (95%); CLIMATOLOGY (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); CONSUMPTION (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) Coal; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; International Energy Agency; Natural Gas; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Temperature

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (66%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: International Energy Agency

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



694 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: A Strange Bank Holiday

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: In Cyprus, the banks are closed. And the withdrawals are continuing. Who says logic is needed? 

 BODY:
The bank holiday continues in Cyprus. Banks are closed.
And people continue to withdraw money from their accounts as rapidly as possible. 
That sounds more than a little strange. But in a way it is representative of what has gone on in Cyprus over the last couple of weeks. Everyone wants to fix things, but hard decisions are to be avoided.
It is obvious that once you tell people you will - or may - impose a one-time tax on bank balances, people will try to get their money out before the tax hits. So the authorities declare a bank holiday. But they would hate to inconvenience anyone, so they order the banks to keep some cash machines functioning. 
As a result, we get to see pictures of lines at banks. Just like in the bad old days before deposit insurance in the United States.
Cyprus has deposit insurance, on balances up to 100,000 euros. If the banks are failing, why not close them down and try to meet that obligation? That would amount to a potential 100 percent tax on balances above the line, and the Cypriots would hate to offend the rich Russians who seem to have a lot of accounts. So they try to hit small depositors as well, establishing the unfortunate precedent that in Europe deposit insurance is not really real.
Who will blink? Will Cyprus knuckle under to European demands? Will the European Central Bank make good on its threat to cut off the banks? Maybe we will find out on Monday.

        
From Lehman to Cyprus
        
The London Whale, Richard Fisher and Cyprus
        
Mighty Draghi?
        
Is Europe on the Verge of a Depression, or a Great Inflation?
        
What Is Capital?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Cyprus; Deposit Insurance; Europe; European Central Bank; Russia; Economics; Finance; Floyd Norris

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%)

ORGANIZATION: European Central Bank

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CYPRUS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) Cyprus; Europe; Russia

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



695 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Okay Expectations

BYLINE: TERESA TRITCH


HIGHLIGHT: The outlook is for a slow economy for a long time to come. 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve has trimmed its forecast for growth in 2013, but not by much and not by as much as might have been expected given that Washington is forging ahead with ill-advised budget cuts. In these days of diminished expectations, that passes for good news. 
Last December, the Fed predicted growth between 2.3 percent and 3 percent. In the statement issued Wednesday, the forecast ranged from 2.3 percent to 2.8 percent - not bad given that the sequester, if kept in place, could reduce growth by about half a percentage point. Other identifiable threats, including the euro crisis, rising oil prices and dysfunctional politics, don't seem as dire as they did in 2012.

Conditions are just good enough to keep growth figures positive - and plenty bad enough to keep the Fed in easy money mode, which will keep borrowing costs low and stock prices high. But without sustained growth well above its current levels, there will not be enough improvement in jobs and wages for consumers to propel the economy forward. Corporate America, with its trillion dollar-plus cash pile, will keep investment down and stock buybacks up (a strategy that, not coincidentally, helps maximize executive pay).
Although some growth is better than no growth, and a rising stock market is better than a falling one, the outlook is for a slow economy for a long time to come - and we're still not creating the conditions for broad prosperity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (51%) Federal Reserve System; Featured Posts

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



696 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Mexican New Yorkers Are More Likely to Live in Poor Households

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: Nearly two-thirds of the city&#8217;s Mexican residents, including immigrants and the native-born, are living in low-income households, said a report by the Community Service Society. 

 BODY:
People of Mexican descent in New York City are far more likely to be living in poor or near-poor households than other Latinos, blacks, whites or Asians, according to a study to be released on Thursday. 
Nearly two-thirds of the city's Mexican residents, including immigrants and the native-born, are living in low-income households, compared with 55 percent of all Latinos; 42 percent of blacks and Asians; and 25 percent of whites, said the report by the Community Service Society, a research and advocacy group in New York City that focuses on poverty. 
The rates are even more pronounced for children: About 79 percent of all Mexicans under age 16 in New York City live in low-income households, with about 45 percent living below the poverty line - significantly higher percentages than any other major Latino group as well as the broader population. 
While the Mexican immigrants enjoyexceptionally high rates of employment, their salaries are not sufficient to support young families, the study's authors said. 
"Immigrant Mexicans appear to be having great difficulty making ends meet as they start families here," said the study, which sought to assess socio-economic trends among young people of Mexican origin in New York City. "Incomes that might support one individual on their own or in a shared household are not enough to support a family."
"The result could be a cycle of poverty that will pass down from generation to generation," the authors warned. 
The study defined low-income households as those making below 200 percent of the federal poverty line, which is equivalent to about $38,000 for a family of three.
The study was commissioned by the Deutsche Bank Foundation following the publication of an article in The New York Times in 2011 about extraordinarily low educational achievement among Mexican immigrants in New York City. The foundation has also started an initiative intended to improve the educational and economic achievement of the Mexican population in New York City, with an emphasis on children and their families. 
The study reaffirmed The Times's statistical and anecdotal findings about low educational achievement among first-generation Mexican immigrants. Based largely on data from the American Community Survey, the report did not try to analyze the legal status of its focus populations.
The researchers identified what they called "a promising sign" for the city's growing Mexican population: about 67 percent of all native-born Mexicans between 16 and 24 living in the city were enrolled in school, a higher percentage than Puerto Ricans (54 percent) as well as native-born Dominicans (64 percent), native-born blacks (60 percent) and native-born whites (64 percent), though lower than native-born Asians (78 percent). 
Still, even this finding was cast in shadow by more bleak data: Mexican youth who have left school - native-born and foreign-born alike - have considerably lower levels of educational attainment than their peers, with more than half lacking a high school diploma.
"The fact that native-born Mexican young people are less likely than other Latinos (and other racial/ethnic groups) to attain high school diplomas and enroll in college is extremely troubling," the report said.
The authors concluded their study by recommending policy initiatives that would provide more educational and social support for Mexican children, families and low-wage workers, including increasing access to job training and English-language programs and raising the minimum wage, something that Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and state lawmakers are hoping to achieve. 

        
Growing Work Force Accounts for High Jobless Rate, Study Says
        
TimesCast: Slipping Into Poverty
        
Developing Education Initiatives for City's Young Mexican Immigrants
        
City Jobs Lost in Storm Are Returning, but Unemployment Rate Is Flat
        
Kids Draw the News: Draw the School Bus Strike

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (92%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); POOR POPULATION (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TRENDS (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); POPULATION SIZE (79%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CITIES (78%); POVERTY RATES (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Community Service Society of New York; Economic Conditions and Trends; Education (K-12); Income; Labor and Jobs; Mexican-Americans; Minorities; New York City; Poverty; Wages and Salaries; Demographics; Immigration

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Community Service Society of New York

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



697 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Elbows

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today&#8217;s Times, plus a look at what&#8217;s happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
 In Today's Times: 
In Israel for the first time since he took office in 2009, President Obamaintends to convey a message that he cares about Israel and will do whatever is necessary to protect its people from enemies, Mark Landler and Jodi Rudoren write. On Thursday, Mr. Obama is scheduled to meet with the president of the Palestinian Authority before giving a speech in Jerusalem that will address the need for a renewed peace effort. 
A push to revive a ban on assault weapons that never really had a chance of becoming law ended Wednesday after Senate Democrats left the ban out of a gun bill that the Senate will consider in April. Jennifer Steinhauer explains how and why legislation requiring background checks has supplanted the assault weapons ban.
The next fiscal fight has already begun taking shape in the House, where lawmakers began debating the 2014 budget after the Senate followed the House in approving legislation to keep the government operating through Sept. 30. Jeremy W. Peters and Jonathan Weisman describe a scene of partisan political theater as lawmakers put on display their "irreconcilable views" on "economics, public spending and the role of government."
Matthew L. Wald looks at how Congress is beginning to weigh how to regulate the use of drones by governments, people and corporations in the United States, as the Federal Aviation Administration prepares to issue rules for commercial use of drones and as prices for the aircraft drop.
Senators Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida might seem like natural allies. But Jonathan Weisman writes that the lure of the White House in 2016 has the two not-so-subtly competing for the spotlight.
Young conservatives who oppose same-sex marriage are trying to shift the political story line to favoring traditional marriage. Ashley Parker writes that the Supreme Court's pending rulings on same-sex marriage cases this term are part of what young conservatives see as a fight that will be decades in the making.
 Happening in Washington: 
At 8 a.m., the House Steel Caucus and the Congressional Shipbuilding Caucus are separately holding breakfasts for lawmakers and industry executives.
Economic reports due Thursday include weekly jobless claims at 8:30 a.m., followed at 10 a.m. by leading indicators for February, last month's existing home sales, and weekly mortgage rates.
At 10, senators on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee will meet to consider Sally Jewell's nomination to be the next interior secretary.
When the House convenes at 9 a.m., members are expected to take up and pass the Republican budget proposal.
Also at 9 a.m., a House Foreign Affairs subcommittee will examine the threat posed by cyberattacks.
At 10 a.m., military officials will update the House Armed Services Committee on efforts to prevent suicide among soldiers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); BUDGETS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); MARRIAGE (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (65%); SHIPBUILDING (64%); GAYS & LESBIANS (63%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (60%); EXISTING HOME SALES (60%); PEACE PROCESS (57%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); SUICIDE (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); RAND PAUL (54%); MARCO RUBIO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



698 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Senators Considering Plan to Double Visas for High-Tech Workers

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: A bipartisan group of eight senators is considering a plan that would double the number of visas currently available to highly skilled foreign workers and dramatically increase the number of green cards available to foreign students who graduate from an American university with certain degrees. 

 BODY:
A bipartisan group of eight senators is considering a plan that would double the number of visas available to highly skilled foreign workers, as well as sharply increase the number of green cards available to foreign students who graduate from an American university with a degree in science, technology, engineering or math, two people familiar with the negotiations said.
The senators met for two hours Thursday morning to discuss the details of the plan, which is likely to become part of broader immigration overhaul legislation that they hope to introduce in early April, and were to meet again Thursday afternoon. The senators hope to finish an agreement concerning the H-1B visa program, which covers highly skilled temporary foreign workers, often in high-tech fields. 
The Senate proposal would roughly double the number of available H-1B visas, which is currently capped at 65,000 per year. The Washington Post first reported on the proposal Thursday morning. 
Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois and a member of the bipartisan group, has privately expressed concerns about the H-1B visa program, and is said to be upset about the current proposal. Mr. Durbin opposes increasing the cap on H-1B visas without offering worker and job protections; he believes that the program, which was created to bring highly skilled workers to the United States, is now being used for outsourcing, and does not offer enough protections for American workers.
On Monday, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and a ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, introduced a bill, which Mr. Durbin supports, aimed at reforming the H-1B program. Mr. Grassley's bill would require all companies to make a "good faith" effort to hire American workers before looking overseas.
"Somewhere along the line, the H-1B program got sidetracked," Mr. Grassley said in a statement. "The program was never meant to replace qualified American workers, but it was instead intended as a means to fill gaps in highly specialized areas of employment. When times are tough, like they are now, it's especially important that Americans get every consideration before an employer looks to hire from abroad. The legislation will benefit the American worker, while still ensuring that U.S. companies get the specialized workers they need."
The H-1B proposal under consideration is a big victory for the high-tech industry, but it has raised flags elsewhere, particularly among the labor community.
"The H-1B visa process needs urgent reform to make sure that the lofty rhetoric employed by the tech industry actually reflects how the program is implemented, rather than facilitating the exploitation of immigrant workers and the reduction of wages in the United States," said Jeff Hauser, a spokesman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's largest federation of unions.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York and a member of the bipartisan group, said the challenge would be finding a way to welcome high-skilled workers into the country, while still protecting American workers.
"There's broad consensus in letting more high-tech people into the country, but what we want to do is make sure that those kinds of mills, that don't really end up helping America but rather might be mills where you get training here and go back home, can't be allowed to continue the way they do," Mr. Schumer said. "I think you can do both, you can be very generous in terms of high-tech coming to the country, but at the same time, you want to stop these companies that seem to take advantage of the H-1B program and don't live within its spirit, and I believe our proposal will do both."
Though the Senate group is expected to release its legislation after the coming two-week Congressional recess, and members stress that the negotiations are continuing and little has been made final, details of the plan are increasingly starting to leak out. The group is also expected to include a 13-year path to citizenship in their final bill - a 10-year wait for a green card, and another three years until full naturalization.
Still, some in the immigration community are growing frustrated, eager to see a bill this week. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued a frustrated plea Wednesday for the group to speed up the pace of producing legislation. And on Thursday, more than a dozen immigration activities staged a protest in Mr. Schumer's office, demanding immediate action on immigration legislation. Some were arrested.
Mr. Schumer, when asked about the protests and arrests in his office, said that he understood the pro immigration community's eagerness for legislation, but counseled patience.
"I understand people's frustration, people have waited a long time, but we are real close for the first time of coming up with a bipartisan agreement that has a darn good chance of becoming law," he said.

        
Senate Judiciary Committee Likely to Vote on Bipartisan Guns Bill
        
Key Democrat Chides President and Senators on Pace of Immigration Bill
        
Senate Judiciary Committee Set to Consider Gun Legislation
        
Economic Nudge for an Immigration Overhaul
        
Rubio Outlines Elements of His New Immigration Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (92%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); IMMIGRATION LAW (77%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Durbin, Richard J; Foreign Workers; Grassley, Charles E; Immigration and Emigration; Leahy, Patrick J; Senate Committee on the Judiciary; Visas; Congress

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations; Senate Committee on the Judiciary

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (90%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) Durbin, Richard J; Grassley, Charles E; Leahy, Patrick J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



699 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Windfalls for Wall Street Executives Taking Jobs in Government

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Big banks accelerated the vesting of stock so top executives could cash in before leaving, creating a debate on Wall Street over whether that is a conflict of interest. 

 BODY:
People usually say they go into government to perform public service. If they came from Wall Street, however, their former employers often provide another service.
Banks, including JPMorgan Chase, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, all have provisions that allow acceleration of payments owed to senior executives if they take government jobs, a new study finds.
Such a benefit was highlighted recently during the confirmation hearing for Jacob J. Lew as Treasury secretary. His previous employer, Citigroup, had guaranteed him preferential financial treatment if he were to leave to take a job in the government. When Mr. Lew left Citigroup he held stock that he could not immediately cash worth as much as $500,000, according to a government filing. 
"These companies seem to be giving a special deal to executives who become government officials," says the study, to be released Thursday by the Project on Government Oversight. "In exchange, the companies may end up with friends in high places who understand their business, sympathize with it, and can craft policies in its favor."
The study looked at the compensation policies of several financial institutions.
The accelerated vesting of Mr. Lew's shares is part of a larger debate on Wall Street and in Washington, where people frequently move back and forth, creating concern that government officials may favor their old colleagues on Wall Street.
The debate has heated up recently as top officials from the Securities and Exchange Commission leave for new jobs, possibly on Wall Street, while the White House has nominated Mary Jo White, a lawyer who has represented Wall Street firms, to run the S.E.C.
Some Wall Street insiders contend that time spent on Wall Street does not compromise someone like Mr. Lew or Ms. White, saying that the experience sharpens their instincts and helps them understand how business actually works.
Firms that have contracts that provide for special treatment for employees who decide to go into government typically say it is intended to encourage public service, not to curry favor. The firms also note that employees on Wall Street and elsewhere are often required by law to sell their shares to avoid potential conflicts of interest and are limited in the amount of contact they can have with their former employer. The issue is simply more pronounced on Wall Street because executives are often paid in shares that vest over several years, rather than just cash.
One person who has gone from Wall Street to government, who asked not to be named because of a policy at his workplace prohibiting employees from speaking to the media, said he sold his stock at a depressed price for a job that paid millions of dollars less than what he was earning.
"I went into government because I believe in public service, not to help Wall Street," he said.
Mr. Lew worked at Citigroup from 2006 to 2008. Under the terms of Mr. Lew's contract with Citi, he kept certain bonus compensation if he left for a "high-level position with the United States government or regulatory body," but not for a private sector competitor, said people with direct knowledge of the contract.
A Citigroup spokeswoman said it "routinely accommodates individuals who wish to leave the firm to pursue a position in government or nonprofit sector."
Other Wall Street firms have compensation plans with language similar to Mr. Lew's. They do not provide for a bonus for government service, but rather allow for special treatment of compensation that has already been granted but not paid out.
On Wall Street, employees are often paid in the form of shares that they cannot cash for years. These contracts allow the employees to cash the shares early. If they were leaving for a rival firm, however, they would most likely forfeit that compensation.
In recent years, dozens of people have left finance to work for government.
Thomas R. Nides, for example, left Morgan Stanley in 2010 to join the Obama administration as deputy secretary of state for management and resources. He sold shares of Morgan Stanley at the time, disclosing to the government that the firm allowed him to cash out his shares ahead of schedule.
Mr. Nides, who received at least $5 million because of a stock acceleration, recently left government to return to Morgan Stanley as vice chairman. A Morgan Stanley spokesman declined to comment on the issue.
At Goldman, at least one of its compensation plans allows for a lump sum cash payment for certain stock grants that have been awarded but have not yet vested, according to a regulatory filing.
At least one of its former executives, Robert D. Hormats, received special financial treatment on some of his holdings, according to a government filing. Mr. Hormats, under secretary of state for economic growth, energy and the environment, wrote to the government upon taking that position that "Goldman Sachs will accelerate and pay out my restricted stock units, pursuant to written company policy."
Those payments are allowed. In 1990, the Supreme Court ruled that Boeing was within its rights to make lump sum severance payments to several employees when they quit Boeing to take senior military posts.
The Project on Government Oversight says the rules governing executive sales of stock were tightened in 2004, as a response to the collapse of the energy company Enron. In the weeks before filing for bankruptcy, Enron had paid out millions of dollars in accelerated payments to senior executives. Now it is much harder for companies to speed up stock payments, but there is a government service exemption that allows for some leeway.

        
Wall St. Pay Expected to Fall 20% to 30%
        
Big Paydays Return With Big Profits at Wall St. Banks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (73%) Citigroup Inc; Executive Compensation; Lew, Jacob J; Morgan Stanley; Nides, Thomas R; Morgan Stanley|MS|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); CITIGROUP INC (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Morgan Stanley

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (58%) Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE; Morgan Stanley; MS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MARY JO WHITE (54%) Lew, Jacob J; Nides, Thomas R

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



700 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: As Hacking Continues, Concerns Grow That Chinese-Americans May Suffer

BYLINE: DIDI KIRSTEN TATLOW


HIGHLIGHT: As tension grows between China and the United States over cyberhacking, I talked to a prominent Chinese-American about whether he worries it will lead to problems for the Chinese-American community. 

 BODY:
BEIJING - As tensions build between Washington and Beijing over cyberattacks, with a growing body of evidence that much of the hacking is coming from China and that the United States is a major target, as The New York Times has reported, are Chinese-Americans feeling the pressure? Are they concerned that growing suspicions about China's intentions toward the United States may cause them to suffer greater discrimination?
Even as I was interviewing Frank H. Wu, a prominent Chinese-American and legal scholar, on this topic Thursday morning, reports were coming in from South Korea of cyberattacks there that disabled banks and broadcasters. Some reports said the attacks may have originated from a Chinese server. (Mr. Wu, dean of the Hastings College of the Law at the University of California, has written books on race and human rights and is a member of the Committee of 100, an influential Chinese-American group that seeks "to encourage constructive relations between the peoples of the United States and Greater China," as it says on its Web site. He spoke from San Francisco via Skype. Mr. Wu, who was born in the United States, describes himself as a "loyal American.") 
Of course, the reports of the possible involvement of a China-based server do not necessarily mean that China was behind the attack in South Korea. In fact, as my colleague Choe Sang-Hun wrote from Seoul, the greatest suspicion rests on North Korea. But it served to highlight the issue since South Korea is a U.S. ally and North Korea is close to China, while some North Korean hackers are believed to be close to Chinese hackers.
The rhetoric over hacking is growing tougher, with the White House demanding that the Chinese government stop the widespread theft of data from American computer networks and agree to "acceptable norms of behavior in cyberspace," as my colleagues Mark Landler and David E. Sanger reported.
So how does a prominent Chinese-American view the issue? Here are edited excerpts from my interview with Mr. Wu:
 Q. 
 How do you understand what's going on here with this cyberhacking situation?
 A. 
 The threat of cyberattack is very serious and it's difficult for lay people to understand the technological aspects of course, but it's easy enough to grasp the basic idea: that people who are up to no good are choosing high-tech tools essentially to break into secure systems of major American corporations and even possibly the U.S. government.
The Chinese aspect of the threat appears now to be reasonably well documented. Not all attacks are coming from China; some may be coming from Russia or Iran or elsewhere, some may be from the U.S., some may be teenagers who have no particular purpose. But there seems to be enough evidence that some significant part of the cybersecurity threat emanates from China, and there are very strong hints that it is not just teenagers out to have fun, but that it may well be an organized effort, possibly with relationships to Chinese government entities, so this is of course very worrisome.
 Q. 
: Do you feel the cybersecurity issue is having an impact on Chinese-Americans, or could it in the future?
 A. 
 Thank goodness in the current controversy there has not yet been very much racial imagery or stereotyping. The cyberthreat however is the perfect scenario for scapegoating a Chinese-American. It's perfect because China looms large as an economic or even military threat in the eyes of many Americans, and cyberattack fits perfectly with the stereotype of Chinese and Asians generally as not only untrustworthy, but also technologically talented. If you had to pick an image of how an Asian nation might attack the United States, technology would be an image that comes to mind easily.
 Q. 
 What can Chinese-Americans do to counter the development of a negative perception?
 A. 
 Actually Chinese-Americans are the perfect community for the U.S. to rely on in responding to these issues. The Committee of 100 was formed in the belief that Chinese-Americans are uniquely situated in a bridge-building role, as people with Chinese ancestry with some understanding of Chinese culture but as loyal American citizens. That combination allows people to be citizen diplomats, to facilitate understanding, to help ensure that dialogue is possible and remains productive and thoughtful.
For Chinese-Americans, there is a long history of doubt about their loyalty, though there have been Chinese-Americans in the U.S. in significant numbers starting as early as the 1830s. ... There are fifth-generation Chinese-Americans, Chinese-American blacks and Mexicans. Starting in the 1980s, so maybe a generation after the laws [ending ethnic discrimination in immigration, in 1965] were passed, a mainland Chinese influx began. And that's altogether a different population. So Chinese migration to the U.S. has come in different waves with different identities and into different Americas. You know, America has become multicultural. Today there is no single Chinese-American community. Chinese-Americans form very many separate communities, partly based on Mandarin or Cantonese, partly based on whether they're professional or working-class, still based on people's views about Communism.
 Q. 
What's your message to the hackers?
 A. 
 Chinese hackers should not be doing what they're doing. I doubt that the opinions of Chinese-Americans will influence them. They probably are only barely aware of the existence of Chinese-Americans. But on cybersecurity, if I were to generalize, I would say the Chinese-American view of cybersecurity is quite similar to the general American view. Chinese attacks on U.S. institutions through the Internet and other technological means should stop.
But Chinese-Americans have a particular concern, different from other Americans. That concern is that Chinese-Americans, regardless of their loyalty or how many generations their families have been in the U.S., or how assimilated they are, will be blamed wrongly for the actions of foreign individuals with whom we have no relationship.

        
True or False? The Tussle Over Ping Fu's Memoir
        
Sports Illustrated's New Swimsuit Issue Rouses Ire Over 'Ethnic Props'
        
Remake of 'Red Dawn' Changes Its Political Hue
        
Cyberwar and Social Media in the Gaza Conflict
        
In Latest Extradition Battle, a Victory for British Hacker

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ASIAN AMERICANS (94%); CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); ETHNICITY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (75%); INFORMATION WARFARE (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); WEB SITES (52%) Chinese-Americans; Cyberattacks and Hackers; Cyberwarfare; Race and Ethnicity; Featured; View From Asia

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



701 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Standard Chartered Chairman Retracts Comments on Sanctions Settlement With U.S.

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: John W. Peace, chairman of the British bank Standard Chartered, on Thursday retracted statements about the bank&#8217;s recent settlement with American authorities over violations of sanctions laws, saying his earlier comments were &#8220;wrong.&#8221; 

 BODY:
LONDON - John W. Peace, chairman of the British bank Standard Chartered, on Thursday retracted statements about the bank's recent settlement with American authorities over violations of sanctions laws. 
Last year, Standard Chartered, which has large operations in emerging markets, agreed to a combined $667 million fine as part of a settlement with federal and state authorities, a deal that included a deferred prosecution agreement with the Justice Department and the Manhattan district attorney's office. 
Authorities claimed that Standard Chartered had illegally processed millions of dollars' worth of transactions for Iranian and Sudanese clients, and the bank admitted to "falsifying records" and "making false statements." 
But in a conference call about the bank's annual earnings report on March 5, Mr. Peace referred to the transactions as "clerical errors," adding that "we had no willful act to avoid sanctions."
In a brief statement on Thursday, he retracted his comments, and reiterated the bank's responsibility for the criminal activity related to the illegal money transactions.
"My statement that Standard Chartered had no willful act to avoid sanctions was wrong," Mr. Peace said. The comment "directly contradicts Standard Chartered's acceptance of responsibility."
The backtracking by Standard Chartered comes after a series of scandals involving Britain's largest financial institutions. 
HSBC, Europe's largest bank, agreed to a record $1.92 billion fine last year with American authorities to settle similar money laundering charges. And Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland have reached settlements worth millions of dollars with both American and British regulators over the manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.
Despite the $667 million fine last year, Standard Chartered reported a $4.8 billion net profit for 2012, a slight increase over the previous year, mostly as a result of continued growth in fast-growing economies like China and those across Africa.

        
With R.B.S. Settlement, Legal Tab for Banks Grows and Grows
        
Standard Chartered to Pay $330 Million to Settle Iran Money Transfer Claims

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MONEY LAUNDERING (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); SCANDALS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%) Barclays PLC; Great Britain; HSBC Holdings PLC; Justice Department; Money Laundering; Royal Bank of Scotland PLC; Standard Chartered Bank PLC; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC|HBC|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC; HSBC Holdings PLC; Justice Department; Royal Bank of Scotland Plc; Standard Chartered Bank PLC

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (82%); RBS (LSE) (82%); RBS (AMS) (82%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; HSBC Holdings PLC; HBC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (89%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SUDAN (79%) Great Britain

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



702 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 485 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Banker Says It's Too Early to Toast a Revival in M.&A.

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: In kicking off a conference at Tulane University, Mark Shafir, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, says that while the factors for a recovery in deal-making are in place, there are enough potential problems that the market is lagging behind where it should be. 

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS - While many of the lawyers gathered here may be ready to toast an upswing in deals, one prominent mergers banker thinks it is too early to plan a party. 
In kicking off the Corporate Law Institute conference, Mark Shafir, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, laid out a view of the deal world still trying to find its feet after the financial crisis.
Many of the factors that should lead to an enormous recovery in deals are in place, he said. But there are enough potential problems that the market is lagging behind where it should be.
"We're not in the midst of a major recovery," Mr. Shafir - who jokingly referred to himself as the "sacrificial banker" of the conference - told the assembled lawyers. "I'd like to be wrong, and I think everyone in this room would like this to be wrong."
Many of the potential problems Mr. Shafir outlined have become common refrains by this point. Western Europe continues to be an extreme laggard, leaving a hole in the market that has yet to be filled. And one of the slides in his presentation listed a host of other issues: sovereign debt crises, "Eurogeddon," a hangover from the financial crisis.
By one measure, the deal environment has not markedly improved from last year. The number of deals this year whose value surpassed $1 billion disclosed is 95, just one more than in the period a year earlier. That is even after the announced sales of Dell, H.J. Heinz and Virgin Media.
All that has contributed to a recovery which he said had lagged behind those of previous upswings after crashes in the late 1980s and the dot-com boom.
But the seeds for a recovery also abound. A strong fourth quarter last year and first quarter this year could help provide a comfortable foundation for even more deals.
Low-cost financing abounds, which is enticing potential buyers on both the corporate and private equity side. Valuations, by Mr. Shafir's reckoning, remain below norms. Companies in areas outside the United States, including China and Russia, are proving highly acquisitive. Activists are making moves in greater numbers, potentially spurring companies to consider mergers.
And investors are rewarding deals more and more, Mr. Shafir said. Shares of acquirers rose on average about 3.2 percent in the four weeks after announcing a transaction last year, he noted, compared with just 0.2 percent in 2011.
Even still, Mr. Shafir noted that some of these conditions would not last forever. An eventual, unavoidable rise in interest rates could shock the markets, at least temporarily arresting any improvement.
All this translates into an environment that will yield some improvement, he said, but not an unbroken run of success.
"We're still in a high uncertainty period where we get fits and starts," he said. "While we are doing a bit better, it's still not great."

        
A Deal-Making Craze? Yes, With Caveats
        
Confidence on Upswing, Mergers Make Comeback

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MERGERS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (71%); DIVESTITURES (69%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); PRIVATE EQUITY (61%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Citigroup Inc; Dell Inc; HJ Heinz Company; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; New Orleans (La); Shafir, Mark; Tulane University; Virgin Media Inc; Mergers & Acquisitions; Tulane Business Forum

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%); H J HEINZ CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Dell Inc; HJ Heinz Company; Tulane University; Virgin Media Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%); HNZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (54%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (54%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (54%)

PERSON: Shafir, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%) LOUISIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%) New Orleans (La)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



703 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: To Boaz Weinstein, Betting Against JPMorgan's Trade Was 'Easy'

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Boaz Weinstein, the founder of Saba Capital, reflected on Thursday about the ramifications of JPMorgan Chase&#8217;s infamous &#8220;London Whale&#8221; trade that cost the bank billions of dollars. 

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase has been in an uncomfortable spotlight over the last week, after the release of a scathing Senate report related to its multibillion-dollar trading loss last year. 
On Thursday, the hedge fund manager on the other side of that bet took an opportunity to reflect.
"That was a fairly easy and obvious trade to do," said Boaz Weinstein, the founder of Saba Capital Management, who was among a group of investors betting against JPMorgan's trader known as the London Whale. While the trade caused losses of at least $6 billion for JPMorgan, it was enormously profitable for Mr. Weinstein.
Speaking to an audience of industry professionals at the Absolute Return Symposium in Manhattan on Thursday, Mr. Weinstein recalled how the investment opportunity arose when he noticed anomalies in a particular credit index. He discussed that idea at an industry conference in February last year, before the extent of JPMorgan's losses had become public.
Initially, he said, he didn't realize it was JPMorgan on the other side of the transaction. But by May, the trade was making headlines, as JPMorgan announced losses that seemed startling for a bank that had such a strong record of managing risk.
"It's less about the money that was made - although it was substantial - and more about the historical significance of one entity being on the other side of this trade," Mr. Weinstein said.
JPMorgan and its chief executive, Jamie Dimon, came under intense criticism in the report released last week by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, which also subjected current and former executives to a public grilling.
Beyond the financial losses, the trade caused significant reputational damage for JPMorgan, which said last year that the loss-making position was intended as a hedge against risk. 
"I think it's pretty clear from the Senate paper that it was not a hedge, it was a bet," Mr. Weinstein said. 
The hedge fund manager, an expert in credit, spoke about the trade during a question-and-answer session at the Absolute Return event, after a discussion about Japanese corporate bonds.
To Mr. Weinstein, the trade fit with his strategy of identifying a technical mispricing in credit markets. But it had larger ramifications for the financial industry.
"That whole story," Mr. Weinstein said, "was worth the attention that the media gave it."

        
Lesson Learned After Financial Crisis: Nothing Much Has Changed
        
Witness List Set for Senate Hearing on JPMorgan Trading Loss

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CORPORATE BONDS (72%); TRADE SHOWS (69%); WITNESSES (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%) Hedge Funds; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Saba Capital Management; Weinstein, Boaz R; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company; Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations; Saba Capital Management

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (59%) Weinstein, Boaz R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



704 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 21, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Pressured, Investment Firm Is Said to Skip Fees

BYLINE: RANDALL SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Faced with weaker returns, some big investors have been pushing private equity firms to lower fees or make other concessions. 

 BODY:
Score one for private equity investors.
After suffering steep losses in one fund, the Yucaipa Companies, the money management firm run by the billionaire Ronald W. Burkle, has cut fees for investors in the portfolio. As part of the deal, Mr. Burkle agreed to forgo the firm's annual management fee until the fund's investors recoup their money, according to several people with knowledge of the matter. 
Such concessions reflect the broader pressure in the industry. 
During the boom years, institutional investors flocked to private equity funds in search of high-octane returns. But they have been more cautious since the financial crisis damped the buyout market. Pensions are now investing money in private equity at half the rate that prevailed from 2006 to 2008, said Andrew Junkin, a consultant at Wilshire Associates.
Faced with weaker returns, some big investors have been pushing private equity firms to lower their fees or make other concessions. In 2010, Apollo Global Management lowered some expenses for one of its biggest clients, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers.
"It's tough to justify the fees" on a money-losing fund, said Howard H. Pohl, an investment consultant to pension funds and endowments at Becker, Burke Associates in Chicago, adding that managers might cut expenses "to keep everybody happy."
Mr. Burkle, a former grocery chain owner who made his name buying and selling food companies, is feeling the heat from investors in a social impact fund.
Started in 2008, Yucaipa Corporate Initiatives Fund II, a partnership with the former pro basketball star Magic Johnson, looked to help underserved, urban areas by investing in companies that support such locales. The effort attracted some of the nation's biggest investors, raising $450 million. The New York City Retirement Systems and Calpers each committed $100 million to the fund, while the California State Teachers' Retirement System, known as Calstrs, agreed to invest $50 million.
Mr. Burkle, a strong Democratic contributor with ties to Hollywood and labor unions, put much of the money to work. Over the next few years, he bought stakes in about 10 companies, including Inner City Broadcasting, the Aspire TV network and Vibe Holding, parent of Vibe magazine and the TV show "Soul Train."
In one of the fund's biggest moves, Yucaipa invested $100 million in AFA Foods, a Pennsylvania-based ground beef processor, which had operations and employees in lower-income areas. At the time, Mr. Johnson was also a longtime franchisee for Burger King, then a customer of AFA.
But AFA Foods soon ran into trouble. Profits at the company sank in the face of rising commodity prices and an industrywide "pink slime" scare over the use of boneless lean beef trimmings. In April 2012, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
The problems have roiled the fund. By the end of 2011, the fund showed losses of 40 percent, and was still down by 19 percent at the end of 2012, according to public pension reports and people familiar with the fund. Representatives of Mr. Johnson did not return calls for comment.
The fund's woes also mirror issues in the broader sector of social impact investing, which has estimated assets of $12 billion, according to Tessa Hebb, an adjunct professor at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada. She noted that some pensions had been disappointed. Calpers, one of the largest investors in this segment, concluded in a report last August that its social initiative had not met "investment return expectations."
After the Yucaipa fund showed early losses, big investors pushed back and Yucaipa proposed some initial concessions. In November 2011, Mr. Burkle said he proactively offered to reduce fees "until the fund returned to profitability."
The fee cut wasn't enough. Last fall, some of the pension investors raised the possibility of ousting Mr. Burkle as the fund's manager, according to two people with knowledge of the fund. A Yucaipa spokesman said no such threat was made directly to the firm.
In November, representatives from several investors including Calstrs, Calpers and the New York pension fund met with Mr. Burkle at the Manhattan headquarters of Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, which serves as a consultant to the California teachers' pension fund. In the three-hour meeting, the investors conveyed their disappointment in the fund and lack of confidence in its future, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
Amid the grumbling, Mr. Burkle offered a broader set of concessions. Along with forgoing his annual management fees of just under 2 percent, Yucaipa would not invest most of the remaining commitments, about $50 million. And the firm would not recover any of its own money in the fund until the investors got their money back.
Some issues remain unresolved. Investors complained that Mr. Johnson was receiving compensation from the Gospel Channel, another fund holding. They urged that the proceeds - estimated at more than $3 million over multiple years - be used to help repay investors.
Mr. Burkle seems confident that the portfolio will get back on track. He said the early AFA loss "immediately put the fund in a hole." But he added that other investments "candidly look very good," citing holdings in Inner City Broadcasting, the Aspire Network and the union-owned Amalgamated Bank.
Other Yucaipa funds have fared better, too. One of the firm's flagship funds, Yucaipa American Alliance Fund I, has reported annualized gains of 7.9 percent since its inception in 2002, and another, Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II, has annualized gains of 17.7 percent since its founding in 2008, according to a mid-2012 report by Calpers. But an earlier corporate initiatives fund is down by about 5.7 percent annually since 2001, the same report says.
Yucaipa said the firm, which currently manages $11 billion, had an overall return of 25 percent a year since 1986. Yucaipa said all the concessions on its Corporate Initiatives Fund II were voluntary.
But the clash with investors comes at a sensitive time for Mr. Burkle. The firm is trying to raise a new $1.5 billion fund.
An earlier version of this post referred incorrectly to the New York pension fund that invested $100 million in the Yucaipa Corporate Initiatives Fund. It is the New York City Retirement Systems, not the New York City Employees Retirement System.

        
Wall St.'s Odd Couple and Their Quest to Unlock Riches
        
Canada Pension Plan Unit to Join K.K.R. Merchant Banking Venture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (94%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BASKETBALL (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BEEF (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); FRANCHISING (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%) Burkle, Ronald W; California Public Employees Retirement System; California State Teachers' Retirement System; Johnson, Earvin; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Private Equity; Yucaipa Cos; Financial Services

COMPANY: YUCAIPA COS LLC (92%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: California Public Employees Retirement System; California State Teachers' Retirement System; Yucaipa Cos

TICKER: APO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (90%) Burkle, Ronald W; Johnson, Earvin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



705 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Europe Weighs iPhone Sale Deals With Carriers for Antitrust Abuse

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN, NICK WINGFIELD and KEVIN J. O'BRIEN; James Kanter and Charles Duhigg contributed reporting.

 BODY:
European Union regulators are examining the contracts Apple strikes with cellphone carriers that sell its iPhone for possible antitrust violations after several carriers complained that the deals throttled competition.
Although they have not filed formal complaints, a group of European wireless carriers recently submitted information about their contracts with Apple to the European Commission, according to a person briefed on the communications with the carriers who asked not to be identified.
This person said the accusations focused on Apple's contracts with French carriers, though other countries may also be involved.
In a statement, the European Commission, the union's administrative arm, which oversees antitrust enforcement in the 27-nation bloc, confirmed that it was examining Apple's carrier deals. But it said it had not begun a formal antitrust investigation. The commission is not obligated to act until it receives a formal complaint of anticompetitive behavior. That it is already examining the contracts suggests that it is taking the carriers' concerns seriously. 
''We have been contacted by industry participants and we are monitoring the situation, but no antitrust case has been opened,'' said Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Joaquín Almunia, competition commissioner of the European Union.
An Apple spokeswoman, Natalie Kerris, said, ''Our contracts fully comply with local laws wherever we do business, including the E.U.''
It was unclear how many carriers were in discussions with the European Union. Based on several interviews with people briefed on iPhone contracts, it appears that Apple's contracts with some smaller European carriers were stricter than those with larger companies.
People briefed on the carriers' relationships with Apple, who declined to be named because Apple does not permit them to speak publicly about the contracts, said the terms that some European carriers must accept to sell iPhones are unusually strict, making it difficult for other handset makers to compete.
The issues do not appear to apply to carriers in the United States; an executive at an American carrier said the terms of its contract with Apple were aggressive but not unreasonable. Apple is well known for tightly controlling the design of its products, down to the smallest of details, and closely controlling its manufacturing. Its relationship with carriers, long cloaked by strict nondisclosure agreements, offers a window into the similar levels of control Apple exerts on business partners who want to sell the iPhone.
While European carriers quietly grumble about Apple's muscle in the marketplace, Apple does not force any of them to sell the iPhone -- it does not need to. Carriers are petrified at the thought of not having the smartphone because it remains a huge hit with the public, driving waves of customers to their stores, especially in the months after the latest models are introduced and heavily advertised.
Apple's contract differs with every carrier that sells the iPhone. Such sales accounted for 56 percent of Apple's $55 billion in revenue last quarter. In most cases, Apple sets a quota for how many iPhones the carrier needs to sell over a set period of time, usually three years. If it does not agree to the quotas, it does not receive the iPhone.
If quotas are not met, the carrier is obligated to pay Apple for unsold devices, according to one person who negotiated with Apple while at a European carrier.
That remains a largely theoretical risk at this point, however, because demand for the iPhone still exceeds supplies almost everywhere it is sold. Apple's iPhone 5 was the best-selling smartphone in the world during the fourth quarter of 2012, outselling competing models from Samsung, the biggest maker of mobile devices in the world, according to Strategy Analytics.
But some of Apple's competitors complain that the big purchases Apple requires from carriers strongly pressure them to devote most of their marketing budgets to the iPhone, leaving little money to promote competing devices, said an executive at one of Apple's rivals, who declined to be named to avoid jeopardizing carrier relationships.
Apple's practice of telling carriers how many phones they must sell and threatening to penalize them shows just how powerful the iPhone has become as a bargaining chip. Other manufacturers typically allocate fewer handsets to each carrier than they estimate it can sell to ensure that there is little, if any, leftover inventory, an executive at one rival handset maker said.
Apple also firmly sets the price for its iPhones. In the United States, every new iPhone model has a starting price of $200 with a contract. But generally, the cost of a new iPhone model to the carrier is higher than the last one, which forces the carriers to pay higher subsidies to Apple every year, said an executive at an American wireless company, who could not be named because he was not permitted to talk about the contract publicly.
Toni Toikka, a founder of Alekstra, a mobile diagnostics firm, was a former director of mergers and acquisitions at Nokia. He said that when Nokia was the biggest phone maker in the world, it used its market position to exert similar control over its carriers. ''When we had some kind of problem, like when the operators didn't want to use money on TV ads on our new products, we said, 'If you're not going to advertise this very heavily, most likely we'll allocate more phones to those operators who were willing to spend money on marketing,' '' he said in a phone interview. ''By using this leverage, they always did what we asked them to do.''
Publicly, some carriers have painted a picture of a more humble Apple. At a recent mobile industry conference in Spain, Stéphane Richard, chief executive of France Télécom-Orange, told a group of reporters that Apple is ''probably a little less arrogant'' than the company was under Steven P. Jobs, the company's former chief executive, who died in 2011. Apple's growth has slowed in recent quarters, and the company's stock price is down 37 percent since September.
Apple has also lost ground in Western Europe, where its share of smartphone shipments slipped to 24.72 percent during the holiday quarter, from 26.86 percent in the same period a year earlier, according to IDC. Samsung, its most formidable rival in the battle for the mobile market, rose to 40.66 percent of smartphone shipments in the region from 27.58 percent the year before, IDC said.
It is not clear what the European Commission will do next. It often reviews complaints and meets with aggrieved companies before beginning a formal case. This allows the commission to evaluate whether a case is worth pursuing and to educate companies on what regulators need from them to begin a formal inquiry. Stephen Kinsella, a partner with the Sidley Austin law firm who has been involved in some of the biggest antitrust cases in Europe in recent years, including the continuing investigation of Google by the European Commission, said it was valuable for companies and regulators to meet before filing a formal complaint.
''Companies want to determine whether the commission really has the appetite for a case,'' said Mr. Kinsella. ''The commission wants real, solid evidence of harm to consumers and wants to be confident that any case it opens involves a problem it can actually solve,'' he said.
The commission can also open an investigation without a formal complaint. That was the case in a recent investigation of Apple and four major book publishing groups that were trying to fix prices for e-books through selling agreements.
Mr. Almunia settled the case after Apple and the publishers agreed to stop fixing prices. In that case, the commission pursued the matter without a formal complaint, partly because the United States Justice Department was already pursuing a similar case that also led to a settlement.
The maximum fine in cases where companies have used anticompetitive contracts to block competition can be as high as 10 percent of a company's most recent global annual sales.
But fines in antitrust cases rarely, if ever, reach that level. In 2009, Intel received the highest-ever fine of 1.1 billion euros, about $1.42 billion, in an antitrust case after the commission determined that it was abusing its dominance in the computer chip market. Intel has appealed that ruling, saying the commission did not follow proper procedure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Buying an iPhone 5 at an Apple Store in Paris. Some dealers have complained about Apple's rules for selling the phones. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN LANGSDON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); SMARTPHONES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); WIRELESS & BROADCAST EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



706 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 6221 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Artist and Visionary: William Matthew Prior Revealed' (through May 26) William Matthew Prior (1806-1873), the subject of this fascinating exhibition, painted portraits in the ''American primitive'' mode. His paintings of solemn, pie-faced tots, stiffly posed yet animated by some inner mystery, are especially compelling. But he had the chops to paint like a well-trained academician too. He was also an abolitionist who, at some risk to his reputation, painted portraits of black people; they are among his best works. He was also into spiritualism, and he was a savvy entrepreneur. He was, altogether, a most remarkable character. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson) 
&#x2605; Asia Society: 'The Artful Recluse: Painting, Poetry, and Politics in 17th-Century China' (through June 2) With the fall of the Ming dynasty in 1644, China's intellectual elite, many of them artists who worked in the imperial government, were thrown into a tailspin. Confucian ethics demanded filial devotion to the old regime. But how were they to demonstrate it? One way was to remove themselves from active life and signal their resistance through art. How they did so is the subject of this compellingly fine-grained painting show. Some artists sacrificed their lives for principles; others used recluse status as a career move. The emotional weight, psychological depth, and intellectual complexity of the work of this time is what comes through here. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Life, Death and Transformation in the Americas' (continuing) For generations, one of the first things visitors to Brooklyn Museum encountered was the Hall of the Americas, the two-story rotunda right off the main lobby. And when you were in it, you knew you were home. A few years ago during renovations, the museum put the Americas material in storage, but now it's back in new galleries on the fifth floor. The look is very different -- ultraminimalist Arctic white and sky blue -- but the 102 objects, from a collection that is a jewel in Brooklyn's crown, are utterly gripping. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabric-like sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)
The Frick Collection: 'Piero della Francesca in America' (through May 19) Reuniting six panels from an altarpiece by Piero, this ravishing show approximates an intimate quattrocento chapel in the Frick's grand Oval Room. At the center of the installation is a seventh painting, the Clark Art Institute's ''Virgin and Child Enthroned With Four Angels,'' which comes from a different altarpiece in the painter's hometown, Sansepolcro, and exemplifies Piero's uncanny orchestration of figures, architecture and religious symbolism. 1 East 70th Street, Manhattan, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Gutai: Splendid Playground' (through May 8) The first large, in-depth examination of Japan's best-known postwar art movement is a mind-shifting event that brings together all the mediums it encompassed, brilliantly interwoven. The eccentrically made paintings suggest that Japan produced Abstract Expressionism's strongest second generation, the artists who most convincingly and directly extended Pollock's innovative drip technique. But the show reveals little-known precedents for Happenings, Minimalism and various strains of Post-Minimalism. It should permanently dislodge any notion of postwar modernism as a strictly Western phenomenon. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: The Hugo Boss Prize 2012: Danh Vo' (through May 27) Known mostly for attenuated, elliptical works, this year's Hugo Boss recipient opts for density and robustness with a display of some 4,000 items that once belonged to the artist Martin Wong (1946-99). Installed wonder-cabinet style in a shelf-lined gallery, the items range from art to artifact to tchotchkes; leap across cultures; and trickle from high to low, where racial stereotypes and kitsch frequently take over. It gives us an artist who has decided to function as a curator and an archaeologist and to keep the honor of his prize in motion. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Zarina: Paper Like Skin' (through April 21) ''Paper is an organic material, almost like human skin,'' the artist Zarina Hashmi has said. In her exhibition at the Guggenheim, it's that and more: paper is sculpture, poetry, currency and, above all, a kind of permanent home for a nomadic spirit. Her art speaks poignantly, though sometimes opaquely, of relocation and exile; works like the 2001 woodcut ''Dividing Line'' reference the violent 1947 partition of India and Pakistan, while ''Ten Thousand Things,'' a set of small paper collages recreating works from her oeuvre, nods to Duchamp's museum-in-a-suitcase. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423 3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'No Country: Contemporary Art for South and Southeast Asia' (through May 22) American museums are increasingly collecting contemporary art from outside the Western Hemisphere, and the Guggenheim, supported by the financial corporation UBS is leading the pack. This inaugural show in the acquisitions campaign highlights work from South and Southeast Asia. Certain artists -- like Amar Kanwar, from India, and Araya Rasdjarmrearnsook, from Thailand -- have international reputations. Others, like the sculptor Tang Da Wu, from Singapore, and the painter Aung Myint, Myanmar, both born in 1940s, are less familiar. Nearly all the work of the roughly two dozen artists refers in partisan, political and personal ways to specific histories. The inclusion of those histories in our art museums is long, long overdue. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'James Nares: Street' (through May 27) Far from pedestrian, this show revolves around a ravishing, 61-minute video projection by the artist James Nares. Called ''Street,'' it consists of long, slow-motion pans of people going about their business on the sidewalks and streets of New York City. To go with it, Mr. Nares combed through the museum's permanent collection and came up with a fascinating array of thematically related photographs, prints, paintings and drawings having largely to do with human and vehicular traffic. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: Impressionism, Fashion and Modernity (through May 27) The title may suggest a double-dose of pandering, but the show itself is a stunning combination of great paintings, ravishing gowns, historical clarity and pitch-perfect contextualizing. Demonstrating how the Impressionists and more conservative painters alike used the latest fashions to define their sitters as real people, it builds fascinating webs of new information and viewpoints around some of the best-known, most beloved paintings of all time, quite a few of which don't often travel to this country. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Path of Nature: French Paintings from the Wheelock Whitney Collection, 1785-1850' (through April 21) ''Sparkle with repose'' was the effect the British artist John Constable said he was after in his landscapes. His French contemporaries had the same idea. Today, Constable's a star. But León Pallière? Adrien Dauzats? Alexandre-Hyacinthe Dunouy? Only wonkish scholars are likely to know their names. Lucky for them, and for us, that one of those scholars is Whitney Wheelock III, who has a passion for French art from the years between neo-classicism and Romanticism, and a special love for gleaming little oil sketches done out of doors. In 2003 he gave his pictures to the Met, where 50 of them, along with some exquisitely funky genre paintings, make up this small gem of a show. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
MoMA PS1 Contemporary Art Center: 'Jeff Elrod: Nobody Sees Like Us' (through April 1) Using a title that gives anyone involved with art something to live up to, this computer-prone painter abandons his characteristic off-kilter geometries for four allover paintings of soft, smoky wafts of green, brown or gray whose fuzzy, camouflagelike patterns refuse to come into focus. Installed one to a wall in a small, pristinely white gallery, they form an environment whose visual cross-fire makes the act of seeing thrillingly visceral. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (through April 1) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 1) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Drawing Surrealism' (through April 21) This sensational show of 165 works by 70 artists from 15 countries traces the movement from its early automatist stirrings to the doorstep of Abstract Expressionism. Expanding the field of players with numerous new names, it also has a wonderful clarity, organized according to the techniques that the Surrealists commandeered (collage and photography), breathed life into (frottage, decalcomania and exquisite corpse) and frequently crossbred. It may be among the best encapsulations of Surrealism you will ever see. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Smith)
Morgan Library and Museum: 'Degas, Miss La La and the Cirque Fernando' (through May 12) Viewers catching their first glimpse of ''Miss La La at the Cirque Fernando'' will tend to agree with an early Degas biographer who called the painting ''one of his most surprising canvases.'' But after a close look at this curious 1879 picture of an aerialist hanging from a rope by her teeth (on loan from the National Gallery in London, and displayed with related studies, sketchbooks, circus programs and other ephemera), they will recognize Degas's skeptical eye and classical perspective on modern entertainment. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Artist's Choice: Trisha Donnelly' (through April 8) The 10th artist invited to select an exhibition from the Modern's collection does the series proud. Installed in three far-flung galleries within the museum's vaunted painting and sculpture collection, her effort disturbs the march of masterworks by concentrating on photographs, drawings and other works on paper as well as several kinds of design. At every turn it asks what is art, who is an artist and what makes for greatness? (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) The pursuit of the holy grail of early modernism at its most feverish is presented as a multiple-medium, multinational effort in this dizzying, magisterial cornucopia. The 350-plus works by 84 artists encompass painting, sculpture, music, poetry, dance, film and photography; alternate between the tentative and the prescient; and capture something of both the terrors and thrills of the project, with clusters of paintings by Kazimir Malevich and Piet Mondrian among the high points. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Projects 99: Meiro Koizumi' (through May 6) It would be hard to find another work of contemporary art that protests war with such soulful grace as Meiro Koizumi's ''Defect in Vision'' (2011), the main attraction of this small show. This 12-minute, black-and-white video dramatizes a final conversation between a kamikaze pilot and his wife, both of whom are blind, as they eat together in a small, old-world-style dining room. It is a riveting meditation on the doomed, myth-saturated mind of Japan's warrior class in the last days of World War II. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
Neue Galerie: 'German Expressionism 1900-1930: Masterpieces From the Neue Galerie Collection' (through April 22) German Expressionism was a messy, complicated movement, with numerous stylistic and philosophical variations. It's not easily corralled into a tidy overview, despite the best efforts of the Neue Galerie in this collection show. The installation sorts everything into two groups, using the rubrics of ''primitivism'' and ''modernity.'' ''Primitivism'' seems to mean the gallery of jarringly bright, vigorously brushy paintings by members of the Brücke and the Blaue Reiter; under ''modernity'' are Neue Sachlichkeit portraits by Otto Dix, George Grosz, Christian Schad and others, made with caustic humor and an eye for the grotesque. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'NYC 1993: Experimental Jet Set, Trash and No Star' (through May 26) History is written by the winners, which in contemporary art usually means the market. It's often also written by people who weren't on the scene and have to take the winners' word for what happened and what mattered. Such is the case with this retrospective show that too often favors the currently best-selling survivors of a fraught era over many now less well-known on-the-ground players. There's good art here, but the spirit of a furiously skeptical utopian moment -- very high, very low -- rarely breaks through the institutional nostalgia. And the chance to probe some market myths -- exactly how political was that 1993 ''political'' Whitney Biennial? -- is lost. Like all surveys of the immediate past, ''NYC 1993'' will get everyone kvetching, and it's a must-see, if only to find ways to bring the story into the present differently. Nari Ward's 1993 installation ''Amazing Grace'' in the New Museum's next-door space is for the ages. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Radical Terrain' (through April 29) The third and last of three beautifully produced, back-to-back mini-surveys in the series Modernist Art From India, this exhibition combines landscape painting done in India in the years following independence in 1947 with recent work by young artists -- some South Asian, most not -- that corresponds to or comments on the older art. Small in size and unfamiliar in content, the show is large with history. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through March 31) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org; folkartmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (through March 31) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Blues for Smoke' (through April 28) As a musical category blues is hard to pin down, and this show makes the job harder, which seems to be its point. It's saying: blues isn't a thing; it's a set of feelings, a state of mind, maybe a state of grace. In origin, it's African-American, developing with gospel and jazz, and folding into R&B, funk and hip-hop. But it has long since become a transethnic, transcultural phenomenon bigger than music, an enveloping aesthetic that includes art. And when you have art by the likes of Zoe Leonard, Kerry James Marshall, Rachel Harrison, Martin Wong, William Pope.L, Alma Thomas, Wu Tsang and David Hammons, you cannot go wrong. Whitney Museum of American Art, (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum: 'Jay DeFeo: A Retrospective' (through June 2) The American artist DeFeo, who died in 1989 at 60, is famous for a single work, a gargantuan painting -- nearly 12 feet tall -- called ''The Rose,'' which she labored on exhaustingly for eight years, even after it had been extracted out of her San Francisco studio with a forklift. In the absence of other evidence, many people tend to see the piece as the sum of her accomplishment, but to this view the Whitney's tenderly shaped and visually absorbing survey says: No. There's more, and different. ''The Rose'' may have been the pivot point of her career -- DeFeo herself said as much -- but streams of inventive, if less spectacular work, work flowed toward it and from it. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Chelsea
Miroslaw Balka: 'The Order of Things' (through April 13) The single rousingly portentous sculpture here involves black liquid continually gushing from suspended, industrial-size hoses into a pair of giant bins made of rusty steel plate. Since its title refers to a book by the French philosopher Michel Foucault, you know that big ideas are afoot. Maybe it is an allegory of the mindlessly self-perpetuating machinery driving modern civilization. Something like that. Gladstone, 530 West 21st Street, (212) 206-7606, gladstonegallery.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Jean-Michel Basquiat' (through April 6) It is not true that only the good die young, but Jean-Michel Basquiat did at 27 in 1988. He was not only good; at his best he was one of the most original artists of his generation. If that sounds like an extravagant claim, have a look at the high-quality selection of 59 of his bristling, faux-primitive paintings in this show. There is not a lot of art from the '80s that feels this alive today. Gagosian Gallery, 555 West 24th Street, (212) 741-1111, gagosian.com. (Johnson)
Donald Judd/Barnett Newman: 'Studio International, February 1970' (through March 29) This presentation of a telegram, a manuscript, several periodicals and two prints could almost be the work of some archive-mad young artist. It traces the path of an article about Barnett Newman from Donald Judd's typewriter in 1964 (the same year he wrote ''Specific Objects,'' the most famous article not about Minimalism) to its appearance in print in a 1970 issue of Studio International. There are special requirements before and after, evidence of Judd's famous intransigence. Specific Object/David Platzker, 601 West 26th Street, Room M285, Chelsea, (212) 242-6253, specificobject.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Dieter Roth. Björn Roth (through April 13) Concentrating on the collaborations of the Swiss-German maverick Dieter Roth (1930-98) and his son Bjorn, this sprawling show adds a veneer of class to the inauguration of Chelsea's latest oversize trophy gallery. Numerous large, messy works noisily navigate the border between art and life. But the best does so quietly: the 128-monitor video piece ''Solo Scenes'' simply records the elder Roth living out life in his studio-home in Basel. Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
Galleries: SoHo
&#x2605; 'Frozen Lakes' (through March 31) The 1977 ''Pictures'' show at Artists Space caught a trend in the bud, with work based on images pulled, with cool detachment, from films, television and magazines. ''Frozen Lakes'' is ''Pictures'' updated for the digital age. Pop culture, drama and coolness are still in play, but the source for much of the imagery is now the Internet. And the emphasis is less on where the images come from than on where they're going and how: everywhere, in continuous data streams. Among the several interesting young artists, Ed Atkins, Charlotte Prodger and James Richards are standouts. Artists Space, 38 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 226-3970, artistsspace.org. (Cotter)
Galleries: Other
'Beat Memories: The Photographs of Allen Ginsberg' (through April 6) During two periods in his life -- from the early 1950s to about 1964 and from the early '80s until his death in 1997 -- the poet Allen Ginsberg made photographs and added handwritten captions. Images of his now famous pals, including the writers Jack Kerouac, William Burroughs and Gregory Corso, as well as Neal Cassady, their logorrheic muse, make this show required viewing for Beat fans. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh, Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Portland Museum of Art: 'Lois Dodd: Catching the Light' (through April 7) This modest, but revelatory exhibition pays overdue tribute to an artist who has spent some 60 years quietly painting her immediate surroundings with an insistent, sometimes daring economy and a startling range of brushwork and styles, from nearly trompe-l'eoil to nearly abstract. A wonderful understanding of color and light provide some of the through lines, as does an attraction to nature, homey architecture and windows, and a conviction that pictorial space is one of painting's central materials and great mysteries. Seven Congress Square, (207) 775-6148, portlandmuseum.org. (Smith)
Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through April 28) On the surface, this probing, perspective-altering exhibition, one of many events commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, looks straightforward, even ordinary. We know most of the paintings and photographs on sight; they're classics. What we know less well is their meaning within the context of the nation's single greatest internal catastrophe, and that's what the show is about. It travels to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this spring, running from May 21 to Sept. 2. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-7970, americanart.si.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
Joel Shapiro: 'Sculpture and Drawings 1969-1972' (closes on Saturday) Starting out in back-to-basic mode, the young Joel Shapiro subverted Minimalist repetition with unassuming, hand-centered gestures. Drawings consisted of rows, grids and stuttering lines of inked fingerprints. Sculptures were irregular units of clay made with one hand or two hands, or with the intent to explore the geometric possibilities of pancake-ish circles. Despite the almost childlike appeal, he was as intent as Richard Serra on getting sculpture up off the floor, where Carl Andre left it. Craig F. Starr Gallery, 5 East 73rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 570-1739, starr-art.com. (Smith)
Alighiero Boetti: 'La Forza del Centro' (closes on Saturday) This splendid show presents some of the most intensely eye-catching of all Conceptual artworks: numerous examples of the vivid embroidered arazzi -- word squares -- that Boetti commissioned from Afghani embroiderers in an attempt to collapse time, space and cultural difference. The grid, blocky letters, radiant colors (chosen by the embroiderers) and Persian calligraphy provide the structure within which the artist and his collaborators find an inspiring variety of hue, meaning and form. Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com. (Smith)
Damien Hirst: 'The Spot Woodcuts' (closes on Saturday) If anyone has a hankering for more of this British bad boy's spot paintings -- anyone? -- this sweet little show of 41 woodcuts from 2011-12 may suffice. Made with wood cylinders, inked with color and fastened into a matrix, they have a modesty and sparkle quite different from their canvas cousins, as does this tiny gallery from the Gagosian franchise. And you can see the whole show from the street. Carolina Nitsch Project Room, 534 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 645-2030, carolinanitsch.com. (Smith)
'I Killed My Father, I Ate Human Flesh, I Quiver With Joy: An Obsession With Pier Paolo Pasolini' (closes on Saturday) It's been a good season for Pasolini. A MoMA film retrospective in December coincided with an out-of-the-blue show of his little-seen portrait paintings at Location One in SoHo. Now, as a kicker, Allegra LaViola delivers a group tribute to an artist, poet and radical populist who was allergic to authority, wore his homosexuality like a badge, made work that was hellish and heavenly, and died a violent death at 53. Allegra LaViola Gallery, 179 East Broadway, at Canal Street, Lower East Side, (917) 463-3901, allegralaviola.com. (Cotter)
Jewish Museum: 'Sharon Lockhart/Noa Eshkol' (closes on Sunday) Sharon Lockhart's film installation is based on the dances by Noa Eshkol (1924-2007), a little-known (in this country) Israeli choreographer who, along with the architect Avraham Wachman, developed a system that uses numbers and symbols to record body movement. Ms. Lockhart's photographs are of spherical models designed by Ms. Eshkol and Mr. Wachman; ephemera include actual notation, posters announcing Ms. Eshkol's performances and historical photographs. Textile works on display upstairs were made by Ms. Eshkol later in her life. The total functions as a new project by Ms. Lockhart and as a two-person exhibition, a combination of homage and appropriation that both recuperates a ''forgotten'' artist and respectfully presents her work and ideas, while simultaneously mining them to create a new body of artwork. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Schwendener)
Yishai Jusidman: 'Prussian Blue -- Memory After Representation' (closes on Saturday) These well-made, photo-based paintings render various gas chambers built at Nazi concentration camps in shades of Prussian blue. They exemplify the kind of obvious, emotionally manipulative work that functions more as an editorial than as art; seems generated by little personal necessity; borrows liberally from other artists and ubiquitous tropes; and tends to clog far too many overly earnest international exhibitions. Their perfection as symptoms of some of the least interesting tendencies of our time makes them worth seeing. Americas Society, 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, (212) 249-8950, as-coa.org. (Smith)
Ragnar Kjartansson: 'The Visitors' (closes on Saturday) Bonhomie and nihilism go hand in hand in ''The Visitors,'' a recent video installation by this talented Icelandic performance artist. Divided among nine channels, it shows Mr. Kjartansson and eight friends making music at the endearingly scruffy mansion Rokeby Farm, in the Hudson Valley. Despite its vaguely melancholy refrain, repeated over the course of an hour, the piece evolves into a mellow jam session that's almost indistinguishable from its charmingly run-down setting. Luhring Augustine, 531 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9100 luhringaugustine.com. (Rosenberg)
Anthony McCall: 'Face to Face' (closes on Saturday) ''Face to Face'' updates a series of ''solid light'' films for which the British artist Anthony McCall became known in the 1970s. In a dark room, two projectors cast simple, slowly morphing compositions of bright white lines on two suspended screens. Ambient haze from a fog machine gives the projected rays a spectral, crystalline solidity, as if they were made of diaphanous fabric. Downstairs in the gallery a video installation, ''Circulation Figures,'' captures the narcissism of mass-mediated culture and society. Sean Kelly Gallery, 475 10th Avenue, at 36th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-1181, skny.com. (Johnson)
'Répétition II' (closes on Saturday) Perhaps the French title accounts for meditative mood of this beautifully installed show of mostly Minimalist sculpture. The idea of repetition has different results in the fluorescent tubes of Dan Flavin's corner pieces; Jennifer Bartlett's early gridded dot-painting; the moisture bubbles inside Hans Haacke's coy ''Condensation Cube''; and Douglas Huebler's banded S-curve ''Truro Series #1.'' Unusual works by Donald Judd, Carl Andre, Joel Shapiro and Sol LeWitt round out the bill. Paula Cooper Gallery, 534 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5156, paulacoopergallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'War Is for the Living' (closes on Saturday) This group shows opens with a famous call to lay down arms in the form of the ''War Is Over! If You Want It'' poster designed by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1969. But the real attraction is in less familiar work by some wonderful artists too seldom seen in New York, including Tomie Arai, Nina Berman, Allan deSouza, Yoshiaki Kaihatsu, Dinh Q. Le, Simon Leung and Hiroshi Sunairi. All of them know that wars don't stop when they are over. Sylvia Wald and Po Kim Art Gallery, 417 Lafayette Street, 4th floor, (212) 598-1155, waldandkimgallery.org. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ETHICS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); GHANA (79%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



707 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Commuter Cycling Stays Flat in '12

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
After years of growth in bike ridership, commuter cycling in New York remained flat in 2012 during the typical riding season, according to counts conducted by the city at six commuter locations last year. 
From April through October, an average of 18,717 people were recorded, at the locations on weekdays from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., down slightly from 18,846 in 2011. Over the three previous years, cycling had increased by 26 percent, 13 percent and 8 percent in the same period.
But the city's Transportation Department pointed to the bike ridership from December of last year through February, when the figures suggest an increase of 23 percent over the previous year, as evidence that cycling in the city had continued to grow.
''It's just a different kind of growth,'' Ryan Russo, the department's assistant commissioner for traffic management, said in a phone interview on Thursday.
Amid the Bloomberg administration's aggressive expansion of bike lanes, the question of how many cyclists use the infrastructure has remained at the center of the mayor's transportation legacy.
In the past, the cyclist counts have often been released in the fall, and are relied upon to demonstrate growing demand for a robust bike network. Seth Solomonow, a spokesman for the Transportation Department, said Hurricane Sandy had contributed in delaying the 2012 figures' release.
The report was published online on Monday, he said, though the department did not announce its release publicly.
In a statement, Janette Sadik-Khan, the city's transportation commissioner, lauded cycling as ''four-season transportation'' and noted that ''more and more New Yorkers are building bikes into their everyday routines.''
Officials suggested that with the introduction of a bike share program, scheduled for the coming months, the figures were likely to increase again this year.
The city also noted that the counting locations -- the Staten Island Ferry, the Brooklyn Bridge, the Manhattan Bridge, the Williamsburg Bridge, the Ed Koch Queensboro Bridge and the Hudson River Greenway at 50th Street -- did not include many newly built bike passages where ridership had increased.
But even among some advocates, the stalled momentum during the traditional riding season appeared to signal a change.
''The fabulous increase in cycling in the past half-dozen years has leveled off,'' said Charles Komanoff, a transportation economist and longtime cycling advocate. ''To some extent, the D.O.T. has done or is doing everything it can do.''
Expanding cycling, he said, was now largely incumbent on the Police Department, which has faced persistent criticism from advocates over its inconsistent enforcement of traffic laws.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); FERRIES (50%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



708 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Deal Will Give Cuomo Administration 12-Seat Suite at the Bills' Stadium

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- The Buffalo Bills' renovated stadium will feature a new entrance plaza and an 8,000-square-foot team store, as well as more restrooms and large video screens.
And it will have a luxury suite for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's administration.
The 12-seat luxury box was negotiated by the state as part of a deal to keep the Bills in Buffalo. It is partly described in the fine print of state documents as an ''I love NY Hospitality Center'' where public officials can promote New York State and its western region. 
The box is part of the Cuomo administration's $130 million deal to renovate Ralph Wilson Stadium, where the Bills play, in an agreement to keep the team in Orchard Park, a suburb of Buffalo, for at least seven years. Under the terms of the deal, the state will pay $54 million, Erie County will pay $41 million and the Bills will pay $35 million.
The Cuomo administration says that because the stadium is publicly owned, using one of the luxury boxes to promote the state is legitimate. But critics have seen such deals as perks for elected officials or their top aides.
Cuomo administration officials said on Thursday that they would, in some circumstances, require public officials who used the stadium to pay the face value of a seat in a luxury box. But the specific details of when officials would be charged and how much they would pay would have to be worked out. Such payments are not detailed in the memorandum of understanding signed by the state and the Bills.
In a statement issued on Tuesday, the governor said that ''the agreement protects taxpayer dollars and puts in place a long term plan for the team's continued presence in Buffalo.''
The luxury box will be controlled by the Empire State Development Corporation, a state authority that is controlled by the Cuomo administration and oversees its economic development policy.
In a statement, Kenneth Adams, the chief executive of Empire State Development, said the box ''will be a great way to show off Buffalo and the region to businesses seeking to relocate to our state.
''We are proud of the Bills and western New York, and we want business leaders from around the country to know what a great place it is to invest and grow jobs.''
Richard Brodsky, a former state assemblyman and longtime watchdog of state agencies and authorities, criticized the arrangement.
''No government agency needs to lease a luxury suite to market upstate New York,'' he said. ''If they need to buy tickets, that's fine, then they buy them on an as-needed basis. The cost of the luxury suite is being paid by the taxpayer, remember that.''
Mr. Brodsky was similarly critical of efforts by the Bloomberg administration to secure luxury suites at the new Yankee Stadium and Citi Field, where the Mets play -- an episode that was revealed in embarrassing detail by e-mail traffic between city and Yankees officials.
The city now has no luxury suites at any of its major sports arenas, according to an aide to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and officials for sports teams.
Scott Berchtold, a spokesman for the Bills, would say only, ''Our team policy is such that we do not comment regarding the details of the suites held by our suiteholders.''
Requiring officials to pay for attending games in the suite could raise the thorny question of how much to fairly charge for a single seat in a luxury box. One factor: Luxury boxes are typically sold as an entire unit. Another: The Bills, who have not had a winning season since 2004, are not exactly a hot commodity.
Doron J. Segal, a co-owner of a business that resells unused seats in luxury boxes, said: ''A 12-person suite, that's a small suite. You'd figure it's probably about $1,000 a person, though there are other things that come into it, like whether it's catered.''
But he also added, ''I don't get a lot of requests for the Bills.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Andrew M. Cuomo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (78%); SPORTS (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); RELOCATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: BUFFALO BILLS (94%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (92%); K S ADAMS JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



709 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: Pressured, Investment Firm Is Said To Skip Fees

BYLINE: By RANDALL SMITH

 BODY:
Score one for private equity investors.
After suffering steep losses in one fund, the Yucaipa Companies, the money management firm run by the billionaire Ronald W. Burkle, has cut fees for investors in the portfolio. As part of the deal, Mr. Burkle agreed to forgo the firm's annual management fee until the fund's investors recoup their money, according to several people with knowledge of the matter. Such concessions reflect the broader pressure in the industry.
During the boom years, institutional investors flocked to private equity funds in search of high-octane returns. But they have been more cautious since the financial crisis damped the buyout market. Pensions are now investing money in private equity at half the rate that prevailed from 2006 to 2008, said Andrew Junkin, a consultant at Wilshire Associates. 
Faced with weaker returns, some big investors have been pushing private equity firms to lower their fees or make other concessions. In 2010, Apollo Global Management lowered some expenses for one of its biggest clients, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, known as Calpers.
''It's tough to justify the fees'' on a money-losing fund, said Howard H. Pohl, an investment consultant to pension funds and endowments at Becker, Burke Associates in Chicago, adding that managers might cut expenses ''to keep everybody happy.''
Mr. Burkle, a former grocery chain owner who made his name buying and selling food companies, is feeling the heat from investors in a social impact fund.
Started in 2008, Yucaipa Corporate Initiatives Fund II, a partnership with the former pro basketball star Magic Johnson, looked to help underserved, urban areas by investing in companies that support such locales. The effort attracted some of the nation's biggest investors, raising $450 million. The New York City Retirement Systems and Calpers each committed $100 million to the fund, while the California State Teachers' Retirement System, known as Calstrs, agreed to invest $50 million.
Mr. Burkle, a strong Democratic contributor with ties to Hollywood and labor unions, put much of the money to work. Over the next few years, he bought stakes in about 10 companies, including Inner City Broadcasting, the Aspire TV network and Vibe Holding, parent of Vibe magazine and the TV show ''Soul Train.''
In one of the fund's biggest moves, Yucaipa invested $100 million in AFA Foods, a Pennsylvania-based ground beef processor, which had operations and employees in lower-income areas. At the time, Mr. Johnson was also a longtime franchisee for Burger King, then a customer of AFA.
But AFA Foods soon ran into trouble. Profits at the company sank in the face of rising commodity prices and an industrywide ''pink slime'' scare over the use of boneless lean beef trimmings. In April 2012, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
The problems have roiled the fund. By the end of 2011, the fund showed losses of 40 percent, and was still down by 19 percent at the end of 2012, according to public pension reports and people familiar with the fund. Representatives of Mr. Johnson did not return calls for comment.
The fund's woes also mirror issues in the broader sector of social impact investing, which has estimated assets of $12 billion, according to Tessa Hebb, an adjunct professor at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada. She noted that some pensions had been disappointed. Calpers, one of the largest investors in this segment, concluded in a report last August that its social initiative had not met ''investment return expectations.''
After the Yucaipa fund showed early losses, big investors pushed back and Yucaipa proposed some initial concessions. In November 2011, Mr. Burkle said he proactively offered to reduce fees ''until the fund returned to profitability.''
The fee cut wasn't enough. Last fall, some of the pension investors raised the possibility of ousting Mr. Burkle as the fund's manager, according to two people with knowledge of the fund. A Yucaipa spokesman said no such threat was made directly to the firm.
In November, representatives from several investors including Calstrs, Calpers and the New York pension fund met with Mr. Burkle at the Manhattan headquarters of Bank of America Merrill Lynch, which serves as a consultant to the California teachers' pension fund. In the three-hour meeting, the investors conveyed their disappointment in the fund and lack of confidence in its future, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
Amid the grumbling, Mr. Burkle offered a broader set of concessions. Along with forgoing his annual management fees of just under 2 percent, Yucaipa would not invest most of the remaining commitments, about $50 million. And the firm would not recover any of its own money in the fund until the investors got their money back.
Some issues remain unresolved. Investors complained that Mr. Johnson was receiving compensation from the Gospel Channel, another fund holding. They urged that the proceeds -- estimated at more than $3 million over multiple years -- be used to help repay investors.
Mr. Burkle seems confident that the portfolio will get back on track. He said the early AFA loss ''immediately put the fund in a hole.'' But he added that other investments ''candidly look very good,'' citing holdings in Inner City Broadcasting, the Aspire Network and the union-owned Amalgamated Bank.
Other Yucaipa funds have fared better, too. One of the firm's flagship funds, Yucaipa American Alliance Fund I, has reported annualized gains of 7.9 percent since its inception in 2002, and another, Yucaipa American Alliance Fund II, has annualized gains of 17.7 percent since its founding in 2008, according to a mid-2012 report by Calpers. But an earlier corporate initiatives fund is down by about 5.7 percent annually since 2001, the same report says.
Yucaipa said the firm, which currently manages $11 billion, had an overall return of 25 percent a year since 1986. Yucaipa said all the concessions on its Corporate Initiatives Fund II were voluntary.
But the clash with investors comes at a sensitive time for Mr. Burkle. The firm is trying to raise a new $1.5 billion fund.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ron Burkle, top, is feeling heat from investors in a social impact fund started in partnership with the former pro basketball star Magic Johnson, above.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRUCE BENNETT/GETTY IMAGES
 AMY SUSSMAN/INVISION FOR ORAQUICK, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); BASKETBALL (79%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BEEF (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); FAST FOOD (70%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); FRANCHISING (54%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%)

COMPANY: YUCAIPA COS LLC (92%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (82%)

TICKER: APO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

PERSON: RON BURKLE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



710 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Path to Citizenship for Immigrants Draws Support Across Party Lines, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Nearly two-thirds of Americans favor giving illegal immigrants in the country an opportunity for legal status with a path to citizenship, according to a poll published Thursday by the Public Religion Research Institute and the Brookings Institution. Support for an earned path to citizenship for those immigrants came from 71 percent of Democrats and also a majority, 53 percent, of Republicans, the poll found.
The option that drew the least support in the poll was legal residency for illegal immigrants with no path to citizenship: only 14 percent of Americans favored that approach. A larger minority, about 21 percent, said illegal immigrants should be identified by the authorities and deported. 
As Republicans have been searching with fresh intensity in recent weeks for a new approach to the divisive issue of immigration, the poll provides potentially heartening information to lawmakers who have urged the party to support overhaul legislation that would eventually allow illegal immigrants to become citizens.
The poll is notable because of the large size of its sample. The results are based on bilingual landline and cellphone interviews between Jan. 28 and Feb. 24 with 4,465 adults in the continental United States. (The margin of error is plus or minus two percentage points.) The Public Religion Research Institute is a nonpartisan research organization that focuses on religion and politics. The Brookings Institution, which is also nonpartisan, conducts research on public policy issues.
Majorities of all religious groups in the poll supported giving earned citizenship to immigrants in the country illegally, but support was especially strong among Hispanics, with 74 percent of Hispanic Catholics and 71 percent of Hispanic Protestants favoring that proposal.
Support for the citizenship option was also strong among black Protestants, 71 percent, and Jewish Americans, with 67 percent. A majority, 56 percent, of white evangelical Protestants, the most conservative group in the poll, also favored offering citizenship to illegal immigrants after they met certain requirements.
Nearly half of Americans, 45 percent, said the Republican Party had been hurt in recent elections by its positions on immigration, while only 7 percent of Americans thought the party had been helped by its views. In the presidential race last year, the Republican candidate, Mitt Romney, supported a strategy of ''self-deportation,'' which would have made life so difficult in the United States for illegal immigrants that they would feel forced to leave on their own.
According to the poll, 64 percent of Americans disagreed with this strategy, while about one-third, or 34 percent, agreed.
But Republicans' stance on immigration in the 2012 elections does not appear to have hurt the party as badly among Hispanics as the voting results would suggest, after President Obama won 71 percent of the Hispanic vote.
According to the poll, 39 percent of Hispanic Americans said the Republican Party's immigration positions hurt it in the elections, while 41 percent of that group said immigration did not make a difference.
However, the poll reveals persistent risks for Republicans among Hispanics. Only 19 percent of Hispanic Americans polled said they trusted Republicans more than Democrats to handle immigration issues. Nearly half of Hispanic Americans say that immigration legislation should be the top priority for Mr. Obama and for Congress.
The president has outlined a proposal that would require immigrants who had been in the country illegally to wait at least 13 years before they could apply to become full citizens. A bipartisan group in the Senate is working on legislation that also includes a path to earned citizenship. Under both proposals, illegal immigrants would have to pass criminal background checks, pay fines and back taxes, learn English and civics and perhaps meet other requirements before they could apply to naturalize.
Republican lawmakers have been testing different approaches to legalization. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, who is part of the bipartisan Senate group, has said he would offer eventual citizenship but no special or direct path to it for immigrants who have been in the country illegally. Former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida wrote in a book published this month that he would offer legal residency for illegal immigrants, but no path to citizenship. But in recent comments, Mr. Bush said he would support a citizenship option if Republican lawmakers embraced it.
The poll shows that Americans are divided over whether immigration benefits the country. A slim majority of 54 percent believes that new immigrants help strengthen the economy. But a large minority, 40 percent, said foreign newcomers are a threat to American traditions and culture.
Immigration is increasingly shaping the experience of many Americans. Of those polled, 50 percent said they often came in contact with immigrants who spoke little or no English, while 61 percent said they had close friends who were born outside the United States.
Younger generations of Americans are significantly more ethnically mixed than older ones, the poll found, in ways that the political parties will have to take into account. In the poll, nearly one quarter of Americans age 18 to 29 identified as Hispanic, while only a slim majority of 52 percent identified as white.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (93%); IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); CITIZENSHIP (91%); RELIGION (91%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (85%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (85%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



711 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
BACKTRACKING John W. Peace, below, the chairman of the British bank Standard Chartered, retracted statements on Thursday about the bank's recent settlement with American authorities over violations of sanctions laws. 
Last year, Standard Chartered agreed to a combined $667 million fine as part of a settlement with federal and state authorities, who claimed that Standard Chartered had illegally processed millions of dollars' worth of transactions for Iranian and Sudanese clients. The bank admitted to ''falsifying records'' and ''making false statements.''
But in a conference call on March 5, Mr. Peace referred to the transactions as ''clerical errors.''
In a brief statement on Thursday, he retracted his comments, and reiterated the bank's responsibility for the criminal activity related to the illegal money transactions. MARK SCOTT
RECOVERY LAG In opening the Corporate Law Institute conference, Mark Shafir, co-head of global mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, laid out a view of the deal world as still trying to find its feet after the financial crisis.
Many of the factors that should lead to an enormous recovery in deals are in place, he said. But there are enough potential problems that the market is lagging behind where it should be. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
'EASY' BET JPMorgan Chase has been in an uncomfortable spotlight over the last week, after the release of a scathing Senate report related to its multibillion-dollar trading loss last year.
On Thursday, the hedge fund manager on the other side of that bet took an opportunity to reflect.
''That was a fairly easy and obvious trade to do,'' said Boaz Weinstein, above, the founder of Saba Capital Management, who was among a group of investors betting against JPMorgan's trader known as the London Whale. While the trade caused losses of at least $6 billion for JPMorgan, it was enormously profitable for Mr. Weinstein. WILLIAM ALDEN
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (53%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



712 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: Existing-Home Sales Hit 3-Year High, as Prices Rise

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes reached a three-year high in February and their prices rose, the National Association of Realtors said on Thursday, adding to signs of an acceleration in the housing recovery even though the supply of properties on the market increased.
The association said sales increased 0.8 percent to an annual rate of 4.98 million units last month, the highest level since November 2009. The January sales rate was revised up to 4.94 million units from the previously reported 4.92 million units. 
Economists polled by Reuters had expected sales to rise to a five-million-unit rate. Homes took about 74 days to sell in February, according to the median estimate, down from 97 days a year ago.
In another report, the Labor Department said the number of Americans seeking unemployment aid barely changed last week, while the average over the last month fell to a five-year low. The decline in layoffs is helping to strengthen the job market.
Weekly unemployment benefit applications rose just 2,000 to a seasonally adjusted 336,000, the department said.
Over the last four weeks, the average number of applications has dropped by 7,500, to 339,750. That is the lowest level since February 2008, just three months into the recession.
In a third economic report, the Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank said its business activity index rose to 2 from minus 12.5 in February, topping economists' expectations for minus 2.
Any reading above zero indicates expansion in the region's manufacturing. The survey covers factories in eastern Pennsylvania, southern New Jersey and Delaware. Before March's gain, the index had contracted in three of the last four months.
New orders rose to 0.5 from minus 7.8, while inventories rose to zero from minus 10. The gauge of the number of employees gained to 2.7 from 0.9, but the average employee workweek dropped to minus 12.9 from minus 1.6.
The survey is seen as one of the first monthly indicators of the health of manufacturing in the nation. Survey respondents' view on the coming months perked up slightly with the gauge of business conditions for the next six months rising to 32.5, from 32.1.
The rise in home sales last month was the latest indication that the housing market was gaining more ground. Data this week showed builders broke ground on more houses in February and permits for future construction approached a five-year high.
''With buying conditions remaining very supportive to demand and overall economic fundamentals continuing to improve, we expect the momentum in housing activity to improve further, providing a supportive backdrop for the recovery more generally,'' said Millan Mulraine, a senior economist at TD Securities in New York.
The Federal Reserve's monetary policy, holding mortgage rates near record lows, is helping to lift the housing market and bolster the economy.
Last month, the inventory of unsold homes on the market increased 9.6 percent to 1.94 million. That represented a 4.7 months' supply at February's sales rate, up from 4.3 months in January, the first increase since April. Inventories typically rise in February.
Still, the months' supply remained below the six-month level that is normally considered a healthy balance of supply and demand.
Since surging in August, home resales have increased only modestly, an indication that tight supplies in some parts of the country are constraining sales.
The median home sales price in February rose 11.6 percent from a year ago, to $173,6000.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Existing-Home Sales: Annual pace of existing single-family homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted.
Home Prices: Median price for existing homes, not seasonally adjusted. (Source: National Association of Realtors)
 Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); HOUSING STARTS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); INVENTORIES (77%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (76%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); NEW ORDERS (73%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (72%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); MONETARY POLICY (65%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



713 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Silver Circle

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

 BODY:
The animated ''Silver Circle'' is set in a dystopian Washington in 2019, when the Federal Reserve Police, in riot gear, are forcibly seizing houses from homeowners when they refuse to sell them to the government. At the same time, inflation runs amok, and working-class people turn to an underground economy, using silver for money. Society's ills, you see, stem from all that paper money circulating. 
But an insurrection is afoot, evidenced by a protest singer wearing a Ron Paul T-shirt, who intones, ''Listen to the words of the man with the rifle in his hand/'Don't be mistaken, I believe in peace but I won't be taken.' '' When a Federal Reserve investigator (voiced by De'Lon Grant) researches a case of arson on Federal Reserve Bank properties, he meets Zoe (Philana Mia), a pistol-packing revolutionary handy at the wheel in a car chase. Soon he is pulled into a conspiratorial web of romance, violence and excruciatingly trite dialogue.
According to the film's Web site, an organization called American Film Renaissance is the production's ''fiscal sponsor''; that group has screened films like David Zucker's clumsy Michael Moore parody, ''An American Carol,'' at its festival. ''Silver Circle,'' directed by Pasha Roberts, has a similarly arch, polemical zeal. It also offers cold, sterile, cheap-looking computer animation vastly inferior to that of most video games. Ron Paul acolytes, help yourself. Everyone else, stay away.
''Silver Circle'' is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) for violence, strong language, drug use and mild sexual situations.
Opens on Friday in Manhattan. Directed by Pasha Roberts 1 hour 30 minutes

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); CONTENT RATINGS (87%); ANIMATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (73%); MOVIE RATINGS (72%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ARSON (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (57%)

PERSON: RON PAUL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



714 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1382 words

HEADLINE: A Young Colorist, Antennas Aquiver

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
On Oct. 26, 1952, a 23-year-old artist named Helen Frankenthaler made a painting on unstretched, unprimed canvas laid on the floor, using a freehand stain technique that owed a great deal to Jackson Pollock but was less systematic. She called it ''Mountains and Sea,'' and it became her best-known, most influential work. Its bounding scale, skirmish of pastel colors and charcoal lines, and mixture of landscape, still life and abstraction were distinctive. But most important was the way it fused color and canvas into a new, streamlined unity. Frankenthaler's stain painting method, as it was sometimes called, was considered a breakthrough in many circles, the gateway to what would become Color Field abstraction. 
Art historically, ''Mountains and Sea'' was something like Frankenthaler's 15 minutes of fame, but generally almost nothing is known about where it came from. ''Painted on 21st Street: Helen Frankenthaler From 1950 to 1959,'' at the Gagosian Gallery in Chelsea, performs the useful service of setting it firmly in the context of the 1950s, the best decade of the artist's career. Here ''Mountains'' becomes the pivot between the all-but-unknown work that preceded it and a lavish, refreshing display of the various if more familiar kinds of wild beauty that it unleashed in subsequent paintings.
Fabulously enlightening and unruly, this show of 29 paintings is the latest example of the historical excavations with which Larry Gagosian, the art dealer everyone loves to hate, regularly redeems himself. He may have a deleterious inflationary effect on the art market and the careers of younger talents and nontalents, but his shows of older, often nonliving artists would do any museum proud. This one has been organized in cooperation with Frankenthaler's estate by John Elderfield, chief curator emeritus of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art. (Its richly illustrated catalog is distinguished by Mr. Elderfield's thoughtful essay and Lauren Mahony's wonderfully detailed chronology of Frankenthaler's passage through the 1950s, built around her letters, exhibitions and reviews.)
Frankenthaler was Color Field's prodigy and its single-minded glamour girl. Born into a wealthy family in Manhattan, she grew up cosseted, cultured and bent on painting. She attended the Dalton School, where her art teacher was the Mexican painter Rufino Tamayo, and went on to Bennington College in Vermont, studying with the painter Paul Feeley.
Graduating in 1949, Frankenthaler returned to New York and set up her first studio on East 21st Street. She soon began an affair with the esteemed art critic Clement Greenberg, nearly 20 years her senior, with whom she frequented galleries and museums, visited artists' studios and traveled abroad. It is a tribute to Frankenthaler's intelligence and ambition that she was soon up to speed on the latest innovations of the New York School, in addition to becoming friendly with many of its leading lights, including Pollock and David Smith.
Sometime in 1953 Greenberg brought Morris Louis and Kenneth Noland, two painters from Washington, to Frankenthaler's studio, to show them ''Mountains and Sea'' -- in all likelihood when Frankenthaler was not there. (Anyone irked by the presumption of this, raise your hand.) The Washington visitors immediately grasped the implications of Frankenthaler's singing, thinned-down colors and the way they sank into the unprimed canvas. Louis later described ''Mountains and Sea'' as ''the bridge between Pollock and what was possible.''
The rest, you could say, is mystery. Frankenthaler's stained-color technique has often been treated like a bit of precocious luck that Morris and Louis adapted and developed. Besides, Color Field's critical prestige, if not its market share, began to contract after 1960, the year Frankenthaler was given a survey at the Jewish Museum. Frank Stella, a young artist fresh out of Princeton, had already emerged as the next hot thing, and Minimalism was on the horizon.
Frankenthaler's path to ''Mountains and Sea'' deserves to be an immutable part of postwar history, and this show should make it so. It conjures a vivid portrait of the artist as a fearless young woman, unencumbered by rules or ideology, who had a remarkable ability to bend other artists' styles and motifs to her own expressive needs. One advantage was her restless attention to the methods and materials of both painting and drawing, which she tended to combine.
This is evinced by the works in the show's revelatory opening gallery, starting with the caked, episodic surface of ''Painted on 21st Street'' (1950), a smeary white-on-white mixture of paint, plaster, sand and scribbled fragments that suggests a pristine cave painting.
Another surprise is ''The Sightseers,'' a youthful masterpiece from 1951 in enamel and crayon on paper mounted on Masonite. After establishing an open fretwork of looping black lines, Frankenthaler fills the interstices with bright crayon, applied in broad areas accented with sharp scribbles and all kinds of marks and signs. There are periodic glimpses of ''sights'': seascapes, mountains, possible figures, a crown. ''The Sightseers'' evokes precedents including Pollock, Krasner, de Kooning's great ''Excavation'' and maybe a little Jean Dubuffet, yet it radiates an assured independence, partly because of the eccentric way it is made.
The same goes for the ''Untitled'' from 1951, a kind of landscape of tan ground and turquoise sky populated by a screenlike parade of who knows what -- multicolored aircraft? sea creatures? plants? -- accented once more with the fragmented black lines. Look closely, and you'll see early signs of the stain technique among several other manipulations of paint. Here Miró and Gorky join the list of possible inspirations. Around the corner, the raucously exuberant ''Ed Winston's Tropical Gardens,'' with its bright yellow ground and intimations of plants, trees and fruits, might be a billboard honoring Gorky's ''Garden in Sochi.''
Mr. Elderfield argues that Frankenthaler was more a second-generation Abstract Expressionist than a Color Field painter, especially in the 1950s, and this show bears him out. He also rightly contends that subject matter was essential to her art. It helped that she was as acutely attuned to the natural landscape as she was to the culture of painting. And while most members of the second generation cleaved to de Kooning, Frankenthaler concentrated on Pollock, combining aspects of his early and late phases, when he was most involved with imagery and myth.
Her best works are a kind of swirling, centrifugal mix of form, process, possible meaning and gorgeous, unpredictable colors, shot through with joie de vivre and wit. She wanted her paintings to seem quickly made and to be seen all at once. Yet they sustain concentrated looking, and reward time spent taking them apart and putting them back together, as they slip between legibility and abstraction, control and abandon, lines and seeping forms.
Frankenthaler gave herself a tremendous amount of permission. In ''Western Dream,'' of 1957, you can almost hear her naming the various motifs as her hand produces them: red insect, black idol, blue vortex, desert sand. In ''Europa'' she reiterates Titian's straining goddess as a remarkably accurate blob of bright pink and then crosses it out, as if dissatisfied. In ''Before the Caves,'' she festoons an orange foot-shaped peninsula with lavender, gray and red and squeezes it between feathery curving lines that whip in from the sides.
Frankenthaler refused to see herself as a ''woman painter,'' although feminist art historians would later draw parallels between her staining technique and menstrual flow. (The insouciant, almost mocking 1952 ''Scene With Nude'' -- with its tiny splatters of red paint between the outlines of female legs -- provides some reason for doing so.) But her sense of freedom is to some extent implicitly female. Any woman making art at Frankenthaler's level in the 1950s did so, at least in part, from a necessary sense of defiance. It burns bright in these canvases.
''Painted on 21st Street: Helen Frankenthaler From 1950 to 1959'' remains on view through April 13 at the Gagosian Gallery, 522 West 21st Street, Chelsea; (212) 741-1717, gagosian.com.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Painted on 21st Street: ''Untitled'' (1951), in a show at Gagosian on Helen Frankenthaler's early period. (C23)
An installation view of ''Mountains and Sea,'' left, and ''10/29/52,'' both from 1952, at the Gagosian Gallery in Chelsea. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
From left, ''Before the Caves'' (1958), ''The Sightseers'' (1951) and ''Painted on 21st Street'' (1950), in an exhibition of works by Helen Frankenthaler at the Gagosian Gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 2013 ESTATE OF HELEN FRANKENTHALER/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS) AND CATHY CARVER, GAGOSIAN GALLERY) (C29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%)

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (83%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



715 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: Hope Is a Thing With Tires

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
You can hear the sound of America singing in ''Hands on a Hardbody,'' the daring new musical that opened at the Brooks Atkinson Theater on Thursday night. With a bravado to match the gumption of its characters, a hard-pressed bunch of Texans hoping to beat the odds and win a truck in a grueling contest, this new show drives onto the Broadway lot without the high-gloss blandishments that adorn most big musicals: glittering sets and costumes, high-kicking chorines, megawatt star turns. Instead it concentrates its energies on giving voice to a story of average people fighting to hold onto hope in the face of fierce economic headwinds and bad breaks, not to mention buckling knees.
Of splashy song and dance there isn't much. The skillful score, by Trey Anastasio of the indie jam-band Phish (music) and Amanda Green (music and lyrics), locks into a bluesy country-rock vibe early and hugs it tight. The characters' hearts may yearn to dance free, but they are forced by circumstances to stand still. The rules of the competition they have entered dictate that if they remove a hand from the truck that gleams at center stage, they'll lose their chance at the big prize. 
Don't expect a surge of synthetic feel-good emotion either. ''Hands on a Hardbody'' wants you to feel for its characters, but you know from the get-go that only one will go home a winner.
Although it's far from fully loaded in a conventional sense, this scrappy, sincere new musical brings a fresh, handmade feeling to Broadway, which mostly traffics in the machine tooled. (Last year's Tony winner ''Once'' was a notable exception.) Burrowing into the troubled hearts of its characters, it draws a cleareyed portrait of an America that's a far cry from the fantasyland of most commercial musicals. ''Hands on a Hardbody'' simply sings forth a story of endurance, hardship and the dimming American dream, which increasingly seems to hover on the distant horizon like some last-ditch motel whose neon lights are blinking out one by one.
The show, directed by Neil Pepe and featuring a book by the Pulitzer Prize winner Doug Wright (''I Am My Own Wife''), does find its roots in a movie, like many a Broadway musical these days. It's based on a documentary about a contest that took place annually at a Nissan dealership in the small Texas city of Longview in the 1990s. A retooled version of the marathon dance battles of the Depression, the competition required entrants to stand with a hand affixed to a truck for hours, ultimately days at a stretch. The hardy survivor staggered off with the keys.
The contestants (mostly drawn from the movie) don't have a lot in common except an urgent need for the financial boon that winning would represent. Each is grabbing at a chance to make a quick U-turn in a life that has somehow been headed in the wrong direction.
J D Drew, portrayed by Keith Carradine with his trademark laid-back amiability, recently got fired after falling off an oil rig. His wife, Virginia (Mary Gordon Murray), doesn't think J D and his injured leg will stand a chance against some of the hardier contestants, but he refuses to countenance the idea of his wife's working for peanuts at a Walmart.
The most fearsome competitor -- self-proclaimed as such -- is Benny Perkins, played with cocky good-old-boy charm by Hunter Foster. His participation stirs resentment all around because Benny's already won the contest once. But as he wryly notes, his wife drove off with his first haul, and he thinks he's got the experience and the strategy to outsmart the rest of the bunch.
These include Norma Valverde (a winning, big-voiced Keala Settle), who believes her strong faith will shore her up when the going gets grim (''Joy of the Lord,'' her a cappella gospel hootenanny, is one of the show's few out-and-out upbeat songs); Greg Wilhote (Jay Armstrong Johnston), a would-be Hollywood stuntman who soon falls for another contestant, the U.P.S. worker Kelli Mangrum (Allison Case); Jesus Peña (Jon Rua), Texas-born but of Mexican descent and an aspiring veterinarian; the jovial Ronald McCowan (Jacob Ming-Trent), who unwisely believes that a steady supply of Snickers will see him through; and the raspy-voiced, middle-aged but steel-willed Janis Curtis (Dale Soules).
As the hours drag on -- changes in the expert lighting design, by Kevin Adams, help keep us aware of just how high the ferocious Texas sun is in the sky -- Janis begins to suspect some funny business between the vivacious young blond competitor, Heather Stovall (Kathleen Elizabeth Monteleone), and the proprietor of the dealership, Mike Ferris (Jim Newman).
Mike, it turns out, is angling for a telegenic winner to parade before the cameras. He's no less desperate than some of the contestants. The dealership hasn't been moving merchandise lately, as his employee Cindy Barnes (an appealing Connie Ray) keeps doggedly reminding him.
The biggest challenge the musical faces is the inevitably static nature of the story line. It's not a problem the show really overcomes. The narrative remains stuck in a groove as we wait for the contestants to begin wilting in the heat, one by one. Although new choreography, by Sergio Trujillo, has been added since the show's premiere last year at La Jolla Playhouse in California, ''Hands on a Hardbody'' can't always surmount the energy drain resulting from the characters' inability to move for long stretches.
I wish too that the musical's authors were not quite so thorough in canvassing the headline-making troubles of Americans today. With its references to the moribund job market, the ailing health care system, the prejudice faced by illegal immigrants and even the difficult re-entry into society of returning military veterans, the show sometimes seems to be singing the platform of the Democratic Party's liberal wing.
But if the writing occasionally wears its social concerns on its sleeve, the score cuts loose. Mr. Anastasio and Ms. Green have taken care to scrub the music -- and the orchestrations -- of the canned sound that blasts from the speakers at most Broadway musicals. Employing a variety of instruments not usually found in an orchestra pit in these precincts, including the dobro, various acoustic guitars and even a couple of mandolins, the composers and the musical director, Carmel Dean, bring an authentic and appealing roots-rock vibe to the show.
This is a Broadway musical that has its ear attuned to the specific kinds of music each of its characters might listen to, so the score ranges from gospel to blues to country to slightly rougher-edged rock. None of it sounds like traditional show music: think of Mumford and Sons, not Rodgers and Hammerstein.
The finale is one of the few numbers with a soaring melody and an upbeat chorus, but a few words from a verse sung by Benny are more in keeping with the show's overall spirit. ''You're fighting for your life,'' he sings, ''right from the moment of your birth.''
Hands on a Hardbody
Book by Doug Wright; lyrics by Amanda Green; music by Trey Anastasio and Ms. Green; based on a film by S. R. Bindler; directed by Neil Pepe; musical staging by Sergio Trujillo; musical direction/vocal arrangements by Carmel Dean; sets by Christine Jones; costumes by Susan Hilferty; lighting by Kevin Adams; sound by Steve Canyon Kennedy; orchestrations by Mr. Anastasio and Don Hart; music coordinator, Michael Keller; associate choreographer, Lorin Latarro; production stage manager, Linda Marvel; production manager, Juniper Street Productions; associate producer, David Carpenter; general manager, Foresight Theatrical/Allan Williams; executive producer, Jennifer Costello. A La Jolla Playhouse production, presented by Broadway Across America -- Beth Williams, Barbara Whitman/Latitude Link, Dede Harris/Sharon Karmazin, Howard and Janet Kagan, John and Claire Caudwell, Rough Edged Souls, Joyce Primm Schweickert, Paula Black/Bruce Long and Off the Aisle Productions/Freitag-Mishkin. At the Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. Running time: 2 hours 30 minutes.
WITH: Keith Carradine (J D Drew), Allison Case (Kelli Mangrum), Hunter Foster (Benny Perkins), Jay Armstrong Johnson (Greg Wilhote), David Larsen (Chris Alvaro), Jacob Ming-Trent (Ronald McCowan), Kathleen Elizabeth Monteleone (Heather Stovall), Mary Gordon Murray (Virginia Drew), Jim Newman (Mike Ferris), Connie Ray (Cindy Barnes), Jon Rua (Jesus Peña), Keala Settle (Norma Valverde), Dale Soules (Janis Curtis), Scott Wakefield (Frank Nugent) and William Youmans (Don Curtis/Dr. Stokes).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hands on a Hardbody: Jay Armstrong Johnson and Allison Case at Brooks Atkinson Theater. (C1)
 In ''Hands on a Hardbody'' people in a Texas town compete in an endurance marathon for a much-coveted truck. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); POP & ROCK (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DANCE (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); COUNTRY MUSIC (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



716 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Former Students at Horace Mann Are in Talks for Compensation Over Sexual Abuse

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Thirty-two former students of the Horace Mann School have said they were sexually abused by teachers and staff members, and they have been meeting with school officials in the past two weeks to negotiate compensation, according to a person knowledgeable about the talks.
Last June, an article in The New York Times Magazine recounted episodes of abuse at the school from the 1970s to the 1990s, citing the accounts of several men who had accused former teachers of having sex with them or trying to seduce them. 
Since then, more students have come forward to say they had been sexually abused by staff members at Horace Mann, a preparatory school in the Bronx. The 32 students have made accusations against seven or eight former teachers, according to the person familiar with the talks, who did not have authorization to discuss them and thus spoke on the condition of anonymity.
It was unclear how much money was being offered to the students, six of whom have reached agreements with the school.
But another person who has been involved in negotiations -- and who says he was abused for several years -- said that the amounts were not generous, and that after lawyers' fees, ''people will walk away with $1,000, $2,000 for years of being abused and raped.''
During the talks, some victims have recounted for school officials the abuse they said they suffered. The mediation is being managed by Paul Finn, chief executive of Commonwealth Mediation and Conciliation, based in Massachusetts, whose past settlements have included $85 million for 552 victims in the clergy sexual-abuse scandal in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston.
At least one former student is not satisfied. That student, identified as M., filed suit in Superior Court in Bergen County, N.J., against Horace Mann on Thursday, claiming that Johannes Somary, a music teacher and noted conductor who died in 2011, sexually abused him more than 450 times from 1973 to 1977.
According to the suit, Mr. Somary convinced M. that the boy was his ''true love.'' It says that M. remained in constant contact -- including lunches and dinners, concerts, tennis games and parties at Mr. Somary's house -- until the teacher died. In spite of two marriages and stints in drug rehabilitation, the suit says, M. believed that Mr. Somary was his ''soul mate'' until he read the Times Magazine article about Horace Mann, which included interviews with M., with a second student who accused Mr. Somary of abuse, and the family of a third, who committed suicide.
''Horace Mann knew or should have known that Somary was a sexual predator,'' the suit says.
M.'s lawyer, Rosemarie Arnold, said she hired an economist who estimated that M. was deprived of more than $21 million in wages and earnings. The suit says he took drugs, including LSD, cocaine and heroin, to ''blur the sex.''
Ms. Arnold said M.'s case was unique because much of the abuse happened at the Englewood Boat Basin in New Jersey. New York's statute of limitations require that criminal charges or lawsuits be brought before a victim turns 23, giving most of the Horace Mann victims little leverage in seeking money from the school. In New Jersey, a plaintiff's hurdle is somewhat lower. She said the deadline was two years from the date that the victim knew or should have known that he had been sexually abused; she also said the abuse had to have caused injury.
A spokesman for Horace Mann said on Thursday that the school had no comment on the negotiations or the lawsuit.
Another New York private school, Poly Prep in Brooklyn, settled a lawsuit in December that had been filed by former students who accused the school of covering up decades of sexual abuse by a football coach.
Apart from the lawyers for the school and for the victims, Thomas M. Kelly, the head of Horace Mann, and some board members have been at the negotiating table, according to the person familiar with the talks.
The teachers named in the magazine article are dead, but others accused by former students are not. In July, Tek Young Lin, an English teacher who retired in 1986, told The Times that he had sex with ''maybe three'' boys while he was there.
In August, the school said that it would work with the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children to review school procedures, train faculty and staff members in identifying and reporting suspected abuse, and develop prevention programs for students. The school also pledged that all of its employees would undergo a ''comprehensive background check.''
Also in August, at least one board member, Joe Rose, helped to set up a charity, the Hilltop Cares Foundation, to raise money for victims of the abuse.
Some victims have wanted more to be done. In an e-mail, M. said: ''Horace Mann has shown no remorse whatsoever for the devastation and emotional turmoil that has plagued me throughout my life because of their shameful conduct.''
Robert S. Boynton, a spokesman for the Horace Mann Action Coalition, an alumni group that formed after the publication of the Times Magazine article, said, ''We want the same things we always wanted: to acknowledge that abuse took place in unambiguous language, which has not been done; to apologize to the survivors unambiguously; and we want an investigation of some sort, whether with the participation of the school or not. We are not vindictive and we are not out to hurt anyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A former student says Johannes Somary, a Horace Mann teacher seen here in 2004, abused him. Mr. Somary died in 2011.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); SEX SCANDALS (73%); SCANDALS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); RELIGION (69%); LITIGATION (66%); SUICIDE (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MUSIC (62%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



717 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN THE ARENA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Next Up: A Bigger Payday at the French Open

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
For newly unified men's professional tennis players, it is now a case of two dominoes down with two dominoes quite likely to go.
After getting a major pay raise from the first Grand Slam tournament of the year, the Australian Open, the men have extracted an even more major, long-term pay raise from the United States Open, along with the schedule they have long desired.
After trying and failing for years to generate the necessary solidarity and staying power to negotiate effectively with leaders of the world's most important tennis events, the men and their off-court leader, Roger Federer, are now trying and succeeding.
U.S. Open officials initially announced a $4 million increase in total men's and women's prize money for 2013. In other times, that would have been cause for player celebration, but this time -- and the credibility of the players' threats to withhold their services -- is different. 
Under heavy pressure from the underwhelmed men and, to a lesser degree, the women, the U.S. Open leadership announced a further increase Wednesday of $4.1 million for 2013. That brings the overall purse to $33.6 million with a commitment to reach $50 million by 2017. The decision was made with major input from new United States Tennis Association president, Dave Haggerty, and former men's tour players on the U.S.T.A's board of directors like Patrick Galbraith, Tommy Ho and Todd Martin.
It would now come as quite a surprise if the other two Grand Slam tournaments -- the French Open and Wimbledon -- did not announce commensurate increases next month.
Gilbert Ysern, the French Open tournament director, indicated as much by telephone Thursday while acknowledging surprise at the magnitude of the U.S. Open prize-money move.
Though Ysern declined to give precise figures, he said the French Open planned to increase prize money ''spectacularly'' over the next four years, from 2013 to 2016.
''We're going to be below the U.S. Open, but we're on the same path,'' said Ysern, stating that the emphasis would remain on increasing rewards for players who are eliminated in earlier rounds.
One of the driving forces behind the Association of Tennis Professionals' prize-money push has been the collective desire to increase the pool of players making a healthy living from the professional game.
''I think quite sincerely that there's a logic to paying the players more than we have until now,'' Ysern said. ''I am particularly convinced there's a logic to reducing the gap between the first- week players and the second-week players and to raise the prize money for the first week. I think that really is logical, but after that, I think you have to be reasonable.''
The players, however, are now unquestionably on a roll. They have established precedent by conducting direct discussions with the Grand Slam leadership over prize money, and it remains unclear what they will consider reasonable after negotiating what amounts to a 100 percent pay increase, spread out over five years, from the U.S. Open.
The Australian Open raised prize money to $30 million Australian dollars (about $31 million) this year and its leaders intend to increase that to $40 million Australian by 2016. The French Open's 2012 total was &#x20ac;18.7 million, about $23 million at last year's exchange rates. Wimbledon's 2012 total was £16.1 million, about $25 million at last year's exchange rates.
There is lingering resentment at the French Open's decision to add a 15th day in 2006 and to start on a Sunday. Justin Gimelstob, a player representative on the A.T.P.'s board of directors, said the players were also wary of the French Open's plan -- which faces legal opposition in Paris -- to build a roofed stadium and add night-session play by 2018.
''The players view that as building on their sweat equity,'' Gimelstob said by telephone. ''The French Open is in tremendous jeopardy of falling behind after what the U.S. Open and Australian Open have announced.''
The developments this year are surprising and potentially game-changing if the players choose to use their leverage collectively and selectively on a number of issues. Those include the yearly calendar, the problematic Davis Cup team event, and even the format of the game itself in an increasingly physical era.
''It's been a long road to get where we are today,'' Brad Drewett, the A.T.P. executive chairman, said in an interview. ''The progress that has been made over the last 12 months has been extremely significant.
''We've managed to get to a position where the Slams are not only listening to the A.T.P. and the players' concerns, but both sides are looking to be good partners in the long term. That change in the landscape cannot be underestimated, and my hope is this change is something that will ultimately benefit the sport as a whole for many years to come.''
Drewett, a 54-year-old Australian, has played less of a role in the most recent negotiations because of serious illness. He has announced that he has Lou Gehrig's disease and that he intends to step down from his post.
Others have taken on larger, pivotal roles, including Gimelstob, the former men's player from the United States. ''I won't say it was fun or cordial, and it was incredibly stressful and angst-ridden and there were even times it got personal,'' Gimelstob said. ''But at the end of the day, we all put our egos aside and did what was best for the sport and the Slams and the tour.''
Federer, the 17-time Grand Slam champion, remains president of the player council. Though his hands-on leadership has created occasional friction with other top players, including Rafael Nadal, it has been critical to projecting credibility to Grand Slam tournament leaders.
''Roger was a statesman and was instrumental in this happening,'' Gordon Smith, the executive director of the U.S. Tennis Association, said by telephone.
Though this was clearly a big victory for the players, Smith and the U.S.T.A. had expressed the intent in January to increase singles prize money by a minimum of 75 percent from 2012 to 2017. ''We would have been doing significant numbers over five years anyway,'' Smith said. ''And these certainly are bigger but frankly we have to recognize the value of the players.''
Smith said he believed the U.S.T.A. could absorb the prize-money increase without making significant job cuts. Ysern said the same of the French Tennis Federation but that it would have to change its economic model and adapt to a ''new way'' of doing things.
The U.S.T.A. does get benefits. With a five-year agreement, the U.S.T.A. now has the medium- term stability and clarity that should help as it attempts to borrow hundreds of millions of dollars to finance further development of the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. The players also agreed to accept a scheduled Monday men's final in 2013 and 2014: a move that -- according to Smith -- will save the U.S.T.A. from an $8.5 million loss in revenue in each of those years.
The U.S.T.A.'s existing television contract with the U.S. network CBS expires in 2014. It should now be able to negotiate the next deal without labor unrest and with a new, more conventional calendar locked in: men's semifinals on Friday, women's final on Saturday and men's final on Sunday.
The U.S.T.A.'s concessions also mean that the relationship between the tournament and the top men's players -- increasingly testy in recent years -- could improve. ''Yesterday a new chapter started,'' Gimelstob said. ''And I truly believe the U.S. Open will grow from the Grand Slam the players had to play to the Grand Slam in which the players feel they are part of the inner fabric. That will have benefits for everyone.''
For now, however, the focus is on the Grand Slam dominoes that have yet to fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (92%); SPORTS (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); MEN (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: ROGER FEDERER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



718 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EURO WATCH; Pg. 

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Euro Zone Economy's Slide Accelerates, Data Show

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- The European economy appears to be slowing further, private-sector data showed Thursday, raising the possibility that the recession will deepen even as the crisis in Cyprus undermines faith in the future of currency union. 
An index of euro zone purchasing managers by Markit Economics fell in March to 46.5 from 47.9 in February, with the rate of decline worsening for the second month in a row.
The purchasing managers composite index has fallen in every month but one since September 2011. An index above 50.0 suggests economic expansion, while a level below that suggests contraction.
The economy of the 17-nation euro zone, which accounts for nearly three-quarters of the overall E.U. gross domestic product, shrank for a fifth straight quarter at the end of 2012, and indications suggest that trend will continue in January through March period.
A record jobless rate of 11.9 percent and government budget-balancing measures have hurt household spending across most of Europe, even as the United States continues to grow modestly.
Separate Markit reports showed both the German and French economies, the two largest in the euro zone, losing steam. The German composite index came in Thursday at 51.0 for March, down from 53.3 in February. The French composite index was worse, falling to 42.1 for March from 43.1 in February, as service and manufacturing activity declined.
Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank in Amsterdam, said the report Thursday ''pours cold water on hopes of an imminent end to the euro zone recession,'' as it showed domestic demand remaining weak across Europe.
Mr. van Vliet said he had ''penciled in a return to growth'' for the euro zone in the second quarter, led by a German rebound, after a small January-March contraction. But with Germany now apparently slowing and Cyprus struggling to work out a bailout, he said, both the first and second quarters may now disappoint expectations. Mr. van Vliet said it was also looking increasingly likely that his forecast for a 0.3 percent contraction of the euro zone this year would turn out to be too optimistic.
The data contrast with a continuing uptick in euro zone economic sentiment. The European Commission said in February that its economic and business confidence indicator in the 17 countries using the euro had improved for the fourth straight month last month, as industrial orders rose.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TRENDS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); CURRENCIES (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (54%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (54%); INGA (AMS) (54%); ING (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (74%); AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (58%) EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CYPRUS (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (74%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



719 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Antitrust Chief Is Pressed on Google

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- With the European antitrust inquiry into Google's search engine practices entering a third year, a group of 11 Web companies sent a joint letter to the top antitrust official in Europe on Thursday, asking him to compel Google to change its business practices to ensure that smaller rivals are not unfairly harmed.
The letter, organized by one of the original complainants in the case, a British online shopping service called Foundem, asked the E.U. competition commissioner, Joaquín Almunia, to take a hard line in ongoing negotiations with Google to produce concessions that would protect small European competitors. 
Google, which is used for more than 80 percent of the searches conducted in Europe, could face fines of up to $5 billion or 10 percent of its 2012 revenue if a settlement is not reached.
The commission, which has expressed concerns about Google's use of algorithmic standards to rank its own services ahead of those of some competitors, is studying Google's own proposals to avoid litigation.
''We are becoming increasingly concerned that effective and future-proof remedies might not emerge through settlement discussions alone,'' said the letter signed by the group. ''In addition to materially degrading the user experience and limiting consumer choice, Google's search manipulation practices lay waste to entire classes of competitors in every sector where Google chooses to deploy them.''
Al Verney, a Google spokesman in Brussels, declined to comment specifically on the letter, saying ''We continue to work cooperatively with the European Commission.''
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for Mr. Almunia, said by e-mail that competition officials were reviewing the proposals from Google. If a settlement were reached, Mr. Colombani said, there would be no legal finding that Google had infringed on E.U. law.
Mr. Almunia, a Spanish jurist, asked Google in December to submit its final proposals to settle the case, which began in February 2010 when complaints were filed in Brussels by Foundem; Ciao, a German price comparison site; and Ejustice.fr, a French legal advice site.
The letter was signed by senior executives at six European online businesses: Foundem, and Streetmap EU, both in Britain; Twenga, a French-based price comparison site; and Visual Meta, Hot Maps Medien, and Euro-Cities, three German online businesses.
Executives at two U.S. Web businesses, Expedia and TripAdvisor, also signed, as well as the directors of three German associations representing the publishers of newspapers, magazines and independent telephone books.
Mr. Almunia has favored negotiated settlements over protracted litigation in his three years as the top antitrust official in Europe. Google has argued that it is impossible to exert monopoly control over the huge online marketplace, and has criticized some of the complainants for belonging to professional groups set up by its archrival, Microsoft.
Microsoft had urged the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to bring a suit against Google over its search engine practices, but the U.S. agency closed its own two-year investigation in January after Google agreed to make voluntary changes to its practices.
Heiko Hanslik, the president of the German Association of Independent Directory Publishers, known by its German acronym VfT, said his members worried that European officials would not take a hard line in their negotiations with Google. The European inquiry focuses on complaints that Google favors its own competing services in the placement of search results.
Mr. Hanslik, whose association represents German publishers of online and print directories and telephone books, said a typically relevant Google search -- for example, to find a painter in Saarbrücken -- would not turn up a directory of one of his members until the fourth page in search results on Google. ''Google is exploiting its market position here in Europe and many, many online retailers will not be able to survive if this isn't fixed,'' he said.
Mr. Almunia has been cautious about his negotiations with Google. In February 2011, he met with Eric Schmidt, then the chief executive of Google, who asked him to give the search engine a chance to propose its own solutions before Mr. Almunia issued a so-called statement of objections, a legal instrument used by the European Commission to lay out its antitrust case and set the clock running for a response from the company.
Last May, Mr. Almunia asked Google to present suggestions for resolving the conflict. In the autumn, he asked Google for more information and eventually gave the company until the end of January to propose solutions.
Google has provided those suggestions, according to one person with knowledge of the situation who was not authorized to speak publicly. Mr. Almunia and his staff are examining them, but it is unclear whether the E.U. agency is close to reaching a decision on whether to accept the proposals and settle, or proceed with a prosecution.
In their letter, the complainants, including Foundem, made it clear that they would prefer Mr. Almunia to issue a statement of objections, and then, with greater leverage under the threat of fines and legal sanctions, enter negotiations with Google.
''We will respectfully withhold judgment on Google's proposed commitments until we have seen them, but Google's past behavior suggests that it is unlikely to volunteer effective, future-proof remedies without being formally charged with infringement,'' the group wrote in its letter. ''Given this, and the fact that Google has exploited every delay to further entrench, extend, and escalate its anti-competitive activities, we urge the Commission to issue the Statement of Objections.''
Mr. Almunia's decision will have far-reaching consequences in Europe ''because it will set standards for the digital world,'' said Christoph Fiedler, the managing director for media policy at the German Federation of Magazine Publishers, known by its German acronym VDZ.
James Kanter in Brussels contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joaquín Almunia, the competition commissioner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVIER HOSLET/E.P.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (76%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); MONOPOLIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (92%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



720 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Hermès Profit Rises, and Not Just in Asia

BYLINE: By DAVID JOLLY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Hermès International, the French maker of leather handbags and scarves, on Thursday reported a sharp increase in annual sales and profits, the latest luxury house to report strong growth. 
The company, founded in 1837, reported revenue of &#x20ac;3.5 billion, or $4.5 billion, for last year, up 23 percent from 2011. Net profit rose 25 percent, to &#x20ac;740 million, better than the &#x20ac;709 million that analysts surveyed by Reuters had been expecting.
Hermès said its operating margin, a measure of profitability, came in at 32.1 percent, the highest level since the company's shares were listed on the stock market in 1993.
Despite the crisis in the euro zone, weak growth in the United States and a mixed economic performance in China, wealthy consumers continue to spend, lifting sales of top-line cars, watches, wine and clothing. LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the biggest luxury company, said in January that its 2012 sales rose 19 percent from a year earlier, to &#x20ac;28.1 billion, as net profit rose 12 percent, to &#x20ac;3.4 billion.
The Hermès lineup includes ready-to-wear clothes, jewelry, watches and perfumes, which it sells to an exclusive clientele: A single Birkin handbag can cost more than $10,000.
The company said sales in Asia excluding Japan rose 25 percent from a year earlier, while Japanese sales grew 7 percent. European sales, which include products sold to Asian visitors to the Continent, rose 15 percent, and sales in the Americas grew 14 percent.
''It's not just an Asian story,'' said Catherine Rolland, a luxury analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. ''They had strong growth in all regions.''
Ms. Rolland said she expected the company to post ''double-digit sales growth'' this year, growing faster than its rivals in the luxury sector. The main concern for the industry, she said, was the outlook for China, and in particular a clampdown on gift-giving in the country.
The Hermès family is fighting to keep the company independent of Bernard Arnault, the chief executive of LVMH, who has built a stake of more than 22 percent in his smaller rival. Prosecutors in Paris said last week that they were investigating whether Mr. Arnault violated insider trading rules to build his stake without notifying the exchange.
The French market regulator, the Autorité des Marchés Financiers, has been investigating Mr. Arnault's actions since late 2010, and is expected to render an opinion on the matter by the end of the summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (79%); FINE WATCHES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); HANDBAG & PURSE MFG (73%); INSIDER TRADING (69%); EURO ZONE (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); READY TO WEAR (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); HERMES INTERNATIONAL SCA (58%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%); RMS (PAR) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); SIC2337 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' SUITS, SKIRTS, & COATS (58%)

PERSON: BERNARD ARNAULT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (89%) ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (89%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



721 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WAY OF THE WORLD; Pg. 

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Paychecks Tell a Tale of Unfairness

BYLINE: By CHRYSTIA FREELAND | REUTERS

 BODY:
NEW YORK -- The one thing pretty much all of us in the United States agree on is the importance of equal opportunity. Opinion is divided about the significance of rising income inequality per se. Some see it as a problem in and of itself. But for others, a growing economic divide, as long as it is meritocratic, is a healthy characteristic of a growing, entrepreneurial society.
Nowadays, though, no one is in favor of a caste-based society. Income inequality is one thing, but a permanent division into the haves and have-nots is an entirely different thing -- and much less acceptable. 
That is why new economic research, released at a conference this week at the Brookings Institution in Washington, is so important. The comprehensive study is by five economists, including two who work at the Federal Reserve Board, Vasia Panousi and Ivan Vidangos, and one, Shanthi Ramnath, of the U.S. Treasury Department. It draws on a powerful new data set: a one-in-5,000, random and confidential sample of the population of U.S. taxpayers.
Its conclusions are sobering: Rising inequality in the United States is ''permanent.'' It is not the function of a bad year, a temporary economic downturn or personal decisions to move to new jobs or new places, with consequent dips in income.
Instead, rising income inequality is the statistical reflection of an increasingly calcified society -- the rich are staying rich, and the poor are staying poor, even as the gap between them grows.
This result is the most stark when it comes to male earnings. The ''entire increase'' in the inequality in male wages over the period the paper investigates, 1987 to 2009, was ''permanent.''
The researchers thought that household income might cushion the blow. After all, this is how many traditional societies function. When the main breadwinner's earnings falter, other sources of income -- the work of other family members, cashing in family savings, income from family businesses -- kick in.
In the United States, over the past two and a half decades, the household provided a little bit of this type of insurance, but not much.
''For total household income,'' the study concludes, ''the large increase in inequality over our sample period was predominantly, though not entirely, permanent.''
Another institution that could temper the consequences of the growing structural inequality the authors document is the state.
As it happens, like the family, the state softens the impact of permanent inequality a little, but not enough to change the broader trend of a growing and lasting divide.
''We find that the tax system helped mitigate somewhat the increase in household income inequality over the sample period, but this attenuating effect was insufficient to significantly alter the broad trend toward rising inequality,'' the researchers conclude. They put a number on the cushioning effect of the American state: 15 percent.
This study is powerful partly because the data that support it are so robust and because the researchers investigating those data are so deeply rooted in the U.S. establishment.
This is no Occupy Wall Street critique -- it is a sober analysis done by economists at the Fed and the Treasury.
Their conclusion that rising income inequality is overwhelmingly permanent is also striking because this stratification is so strongly at odds with the increasing political openness of those same two and a half decades. Even as class divisions have hardened, other forms of structural inequality have been eroded.
Full rights, including marriage, for gays and lesbians are swiftly becoming the status quo. Ethnic minorities have increasing demographic power, as reflected in their growing political strength on issues like immigration, or indeed in the fact that the president of the United States is black.
The earning power of women is growing, and women are increasingly likely to be the breadwinners in their families.
This is the great paradox of our age -- political inclusion of groups that were once beyond the pale is steadily increasing. But at the same time, the economic divide between the top and the bottom is becoming both wider and deeper.
This contradiction is the key to so much of the stress and polarization in today's society. The widening political inclusion is real, and it makes an implicit promise -- that equality of opportunity is rising, that the world is everyone's oyster.
But the tax data the Brookings study draws upon are real, too, and they send the opposite message. The gap between the rich and the poor is growing, and membership in each group is increasingly fixed.
Politics tells a story of increasing inclusion; economics tells a story of a widening and permanent class divide. You do not need a doctorate in economics to feel cheated by these clashing messages. Our public political ideology is promising -- and delivering -- ever greater openness and inclusion. Our paychecks are cementing the class divide. No wonder people are so confused and American political life is so scrambled.
Chrystia Freeland is editor of Thomson Reuters Digital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); FAMILY COMPANIES (61%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



722 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: BUSINESS OF GREEN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Britain Haunted by Risk of Flooding

BYLINE: By BETH GARDINER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Britons are used to griping about the rain, but a series of major floods in recent years has prompted some to ask how ready the nation is to cope with the rising sea levels and increase in storms that are expected to come as the climate warms.
After Hurricane Sandy exposed how poorly prepared much of the U.S. East Coast was for an extremely severe storm, British flood experts say their nation would most likely fare somewhat better. But with budgets tight and the likelihood of further big floods growing, they say officials must stay focused on strengthening defenses, retreating from vulnerable areas where necessary, and protecting infrastructure like power plants and hospitals.
Severe floods have struck frequently around Britain in the past decade and a half, with particularly damaging deluges caused by heavy rain and swollen rivers in 2000, 2007 and 2012. 
''These have been floods on a large scale and have been damaging floods, but they haven't been on a catastrophic scale,'' said Jim Hall, a professor of climate and environmental risk at the University of Oxford. ''On that kind of a scale, we're still really untested.'' Further complicating matters, the frequency of serious droughts is also expected to rise. Last year, parts of the country were stricken simultaneously by flood and drought, with underground reserves of water depleted by months of dry weather even as heavy rainfall swamped the surface.
Hurricane Sandy, which paralyzed parts of New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, came just a few months before the 60th anniversary, in January, of a storm surge in 1953 that killed more than 300 people in Britain and more than 1,700 in the Netherlands. Memories of both should nudge Britain to examine its readiness, experts said.
''Hurricane Sandy was a wake-up call around coastal flooding,'' said Pete Fox, the head of strategy and investment at the U.K. Environment Agency. He said that British officials meet regularly with representatives of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and are seeking to learn lessons from the devastation caused by the hurricane, particularly about the vulnerability of critical infrastructure like hospitals and transportation networks.
By all accounts, London is much better placed than New York to weather an extreme storm and coastal surge. New York sits on the coast, its harbor open to the sea, and it was flagged as facing serious and worsening flood risk by a report in 2008 from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. London, on the other hand, lies a few dozen miles inland, and its biggest exposure is through surges of the tidal River Thames. Moreover, the movable steel gates of the Thames Barrier, built after the flood in 1953, were designed to withstand a once-in-a-thousand-year storm.
''We actually raise the barrier far more often nowadays,'' Mr. Fox said. ''That in itself is a signal of the changes and extremes in our weather that we are seeing.'' Even with the barrier, the capital remains vulnerable to the flooding of the many tributaries of the Thames and to street floods that hit when heavy rainfall overwhelms urban drainage systems, Mr. Fox said.
Poor drainage was blamed for floods that devastated the northeastern city of Hull in 2007 and experts say the risk remains high in many British cities, where sewers and pipes are often more than 100 years old.
Upgrades are underway on a piecemeal basis around the country, funded by water companies and the local authorities, but the water industry regulator, Ofwat, said no national plan had been prepared for a wholesale modernization of water infrastructure. David Crichton, a flood expert and adviser in Scotland, said the cost for a nationwide upgrade would be prohibitive.
Coastal areas are also vulnerable. In some places, the authorities have chosen to let the sea retake uninhabited areas, hoping new wetlands will provide a natural barrier and ease pressure on populated zones. On the Blackwater estuary in southeast England, for example, sea walls were broken down in 2002 to let a former farm become salt marsh. As well as cutting flood risk, the local Essex Wildlife Trust said the new wetlands provide a home to wading birds, 14 kinds of fish and plant species like sea lavender.
Opening up new parkland alongside rivers and letting waterways that have been artificially straightened return to their original, winding paths can also lessen the impact of floods.
While hard defenses like walls and flood gates will always be necessary, ''it's expensive and in some places technically unfeasible to keep building river defenses higher and higher,'' said David Tickner, the chief adviser on fresh water at the British section of the conservation group WWF. ''That's a lot of concrete. It's a lot of money.''
The Environment Agency says spending on the construction and maintenance of flood defenses will have to rise to £1 billion, or $1.5 billion, a year by 2035, from £570 million now.
Another worry is flood insurance. Insurers are seeking government help to keep policies affordable for those in high-risk areas, as part of talks to extend an existing public-private deal beyond its scheduled expiration in June. Failure to reach an agreement could put insurance out of reach for as many as 200,000 households, the industry has said.
The floods in 2007 left some parts of Britain under six feet, or 1.8 meters, of water, killing 13 people and costing the economy an estimated £3.2 billion. After the disaster, a review led by Michael Pitt, a local government official and infrastructure planning expert, warned that the risk of more severe events was growing. He urged the government to implement a list of recommendations, including limiting construction in flood plains and getting utilities to better protect power substations.
''Not all of them have been followed up, and I still have some doubt with respect to our capacity to cope with a very large'' flood, said Mr. Hall, of Oxford.
While work has been done to protect water treatment plants and other key infrastructure, the London Underground and many hospitals remain vulnerable, he said.
Because of population pressure, ''we've built more on flood plains than anybody feels really comfortable with,'' noted Mr. Fox, of the Environment Agency.
The government is spending nearly £300 million on 93 separate flood defense efforts that start construction this year, while funding from the local authorities and the private sector has contributed £148 million since 2011, the agency said. Nonetheless, Mr. Fox acknowledged, money ''is a challenge for all publicly funded programs'' in times of austerity.
The benefits are clear, though. Mr. Fox said a £38 million program to protect Carlisle, in northwest England, after severe flooding in 2005, paid for itself in one night of heavy rainfall in 2009.
Politically, however, it is hard to win funds for projects that guard against future hazards rather than providing immediate benefit, Mr. Hall noted. ''Investing in flood defenses is an investment in risk reduction, and that is sometimes a harder case to make,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Special Report

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); FLOOD ZONES (90%); DROUGHT (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); WEATHER (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); RIVERS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); ENGINEERING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (69%); ARMIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



723 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Treasure Island Trauma

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
A couple of years ago, the journalist Nicholas Shaxson published a fascinating, chilling book titled ''Treasure Islands,'' which explained how international tax havens -- which are also, as the author pointed out, ''secrecy jurisdictions'' where many rules don't apply -- undermine economies around the world. Not only do they bleed revenues from cash-strapped governments and enable corruption; they distort the flow of capital, helping to feed ever-bigger financial crises.
One question Mr. Shaxson didn't get into much, however, is what happens when a secrecy jurisdiction itself goes bust. That's the story of Cyprus right now. And whatever the outcome for Cyprus itself (hint: it's not likely to be happy), the Cyprus mess shows just how unreformed the world banking system remains, almost five years after the global financial crisis began. 
So, about Cyprus: You might wonder why anyone cares about a tiny nation with an economy not much bigger than that of metropolitan Scranton, Pa. Cyprus is, however, a member of the euro zone, so events there could trigger contagion (for example, bank runs) in larger nations. And there's something else: While the Cypriot economy may be tiny, it's a surprisingly large financial player, with a banking sector four or five times as big as you might expect given the size of its economy.
Why are Cypriot banks so big? Because the country is a tax haven where corporations and wealthy foreigners stash their money. Officially, 37 percent of the deposits in Cypriot banks come from nonresidents; the true number, once you take into account wealthy expatriates and people who are only nominally resident in Cyprus, is surely much higher. Basically, Cyprus is a place where people, especially but not only Russians, hide their wealth from both the taxmen and the regulators. Whatever gloss you put on it, it's basically about money-laundering.
And the truth is that much of the wealth never moved at all; it just became invisible. On paper, for example, Cyprus became a huge investor in Russia -- much bigger than Germany, whose economy is hundreds of times larger. In reality, of course, this was just ''roundtripping'' by Russians using the island as a tax shelter.
Unfortunately for the Cypriots, enough real money came in to finance some seriously bad investments, as their banks bought Greek debt and lent into a vast real estate bubble. Sooner or later, things were bound to go wrong. And now they have.
Now what? There are some strong similarities between Cyprus now and Iceland (a similar-size economy) a few years back. Like Cyprus now, Iceland had a huge banking sector, swollen by foreign deposits, that was simply too big to bail out. Iceland's response was essentially to let its banks go bust, wiping out those foreign investors, while protecting domestic depositors -- and the results weren't too bad. Indeed, Iceland, with a far lower unemployment rate than most of Europe, has weathered the crisis surprisingly well.
Unfortunately, Cyprus's response to its crisis has been a hopeless muddle. In part, this reflects the fact that it no longer has its own currency, which makes it dependent on decision makers in Brussels and Berlin -- decision makers who haven't been willing to let banks openly fail.
But it also reflects Cyprus's own reluctance to accept the end of its money-laundering business; its leaders are still trying to limit losses to foreign depositors in the vain hope that business as usual can resume, and they were so anxious to protect the big money that they tried to limit foreigners' losses by expropriating small domestic depositors. As it turned out, however, ordinary Cypriots were outraged, the plan was rejected, and, at this point, nobody knows what will happen.
My guess is that, in the end, Cyprus will adopt something like the Icelandic solution, but unless it ends up being forced off the euro in the next few days -- a real possibility -- it may first waste a lot of time and money on half-measures, trying to avoid facing up to reality while running up huge debts to wealthier nations. We'll see.
But step back for a minute and consider the incredible fact that tax havens like Cyprus, the Cayman Islands, and many more are still operating pretty much the same way that they did before the global financial crisis. Everyone has seen the damage that runaway bankers can inflict, yet much of the world's financial business is still routed through jurisdictions that let bankers sidestep even the mild regulations we've put in place. Everyone is crying about budget deficits, yet corporations and the wealthy are still freely using tax havens to avoid paying taxes like the little people.
So don't cry for Cyprus; cry for all of us, living in a world whose leaders seem determined not to learn from disaster.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); JOURNALISM (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BAILOUTS (76%); EURO ZONE (76%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); MONEY LAUNDERING (71%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (70%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) CYPRUS (94%); ICELAND (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



724 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Cyprus Fears and Oracle's Weak Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market fell on Thursday after Oracle's weak sales results weighed down big technology companies. Traders also worried that Cyprus was running out of time to avoid a collapse of its financial system.
The American market followed its European counterparts lower at the open and remained solidly negative all day. The Dow Jones industrial average fell as much as 129 points by midafternoon before paring the loss to close down 90 points.
All three major indexes felt the drag from technology stocks after Oracle reported an unexpected decline in sales in its fiscal third quarter. Oracle's results have an outsize impact on other technology stocks because it reports earlier than most of its peers. 
European markets closed sharply lower. The main indexes in Paris and Frankfurt fell 1.4 percent and 0.9 percent on fears that the crisis in Cyprus would intensify. The European Central Bank has threatened to end emergency support of the nation's banks next week unless leaders can secure more financing.
Cyprus must raise about $7.5 billion in the next four days to avoid bankruptcy. Several plans have failed, including a proposal to tax deposits held by the nation's banks. If Cyprus is unable to secure a bailout, its banks will fail and it could be forced to leave the euro currency. Worries about that possibility first hit stock markets Monday.
''It's amazing how quickly things can turn back to Cyprus and Europe,'' said Oliver Cross, director of research with Carolinas Investment Consulting.
Oracle was the biggest decliner in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, falling $3.47, or 9.7 percent, to $32.30. The S.& P. 500-stock index lost 12.91 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,545.80.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 90.24 points, or 0.6 percent, to 14,421.49. Cisco Systems was the Dow's biggest loser, dropping 83 cents, or 3.8 percent, to $20.84.
The Nasdaq composite index, which is weighted heavily toward technology stocks, fell 31.59 points, or 1 percent, to 3,222.60.
Despite being down for the week, the Dow remains near a record high. Its run-up has been powered by optimism about the United States economy and the Federal Reserve's easy-money policies. The Dow is up 2.6 percent this month. The S.& P. 500 has gained 2.1 percent in March.
Given the market's recent strength, many analysts have been anticipating a decline at the first sign of bad news -- whether from Europe, corporate America or the American economy.
A sharp sell-off, however, has not materialized, said Troy Logan, managing director and senior economist at Warren Financial Service. He said Thursday's losses could have been much worse.
''We thought Cyprus would be the perfect opportunity for the market to step back, but it looks like the market has shrugged it off,'' Mr. Logan said.
The job and housing markets continue to improve gradually, according to economic reports released Thursday. The Labor Department said the number of people claiming new unemployment benefits last week was about flat near a five-year low. Sales of used homes rose in February to a three-year high, according to the National Association of Realtors.
Among the stocks on the move, AstraZeneca rose after saying it would cut 2,300 more jobs worldwide and overhaul its research operations. That brings to 11,000 the number of job cuts announced in the last 13 months. Its shares rose $1.77, or 3.8 percent, to $47.95.
The Movado Group fell after the luxury watchmaker said its fiscal fourth-quarter net income fell 26 percent. Its stock dropped $3.89, or 10.5 percent, to $33.23.
In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 13/32, to 100 25/32, while its yield dropped to 1.91 percent, from 1.96 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EURO (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (70%); CURRENCIES (70%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (92%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (69%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (56%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (92%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (92%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); CYPRUS (94%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



725 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: States Vie to Conduct Commercial Drone Tests

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY PRATT

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- The state of Nevada recently joined the crowded bidding to be named a federal test site for the commercial use of pilotless aircraft under a program that will allow as many as six states to test the controversial but potentially lucrative technology for a five-year period.
Nevada is hoping that its vast open spaces, powerful databanks and experience with military drones will help it stand out among the 37 states bidding for approval from the Federal Aviation Administration to test the commercial uses of drones. 
The amount of time and resources Nevada and the other states are dedicating to the effort shows the potential they see for getting an economic lift from a market that by some predictions may grow to $11 billion in the next decade, or nearly twice its current size.
The six sites will give the F.A.A. information on how drones can be used safely in domestic airspace, data the agency needs as it prepares to meet a 2015 deadline for issuing guidelines on the technology. The agency now grants permission to fly drones on a case-by-case basis.
For the states that are selected, the hope is that they will become more attractive to big and small companies interested in the expanding market.
Steve Hill, executive director of the Nevada Governor's Office of Economic Development, said the application was important for Nevada, which has led the nation in unemployment, foreclosures and bankruptcies most of the time since the height of the recession. The state is suited for testing drones, he said, because it has ''largest amount of restricted airspace without commercial aircraft.''
''You could basically fly from the south to the north end of the state or about 300 nautical miles,'' he said.
Mr. Hill also pointed to the state's 25 years in military research and development with drones in the deserts north of Las Vegas.
Alan Gertler, vice president at the Desert Research Institute, is part of the team preparing the state's application. He said drones could be used to help identify sources of geothermal energy or minerals, and to monitor chemical and biological systems. ''It's a state-of-the-art research tool,'' Mr. Gertler said.
The technology could also be used for weather and climate research, and to monitor natural disasters like forest fires, Mr. Hill said.
Nevada began the application process in late February, along with 49 other applicants from 37 states. The F.A.A. will decide on the six finalists by the end of the year.
However the winners wind up using the technology, the federal government will be following each site closely to gather information for developing guidelines on safely integrating unmanned aircraft into the nation's airspace by Sept. 30, 2015. But even those guidelines are likely to be revised as the technology continues to develop, an F.A.A. official said.
The federal government is also seeking public comment until April 23 about how to safeguard the privacy of people on the ground near the test sites.
In Nevada, the public outcry has been muted, thus far. Allen Lichtenstein, general counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union of Nevada, said, ''The concern isn't the drones themselves, it's their use, like any other tool.'' He said the group was following the process closely and hoped to see ''strict guidelines'' on their use.
Mr. Hill said Nevada might have another advantage in the competition: Senator Harry Reid, the top Democrat in the Senate.
''Obviously it helps to have the majority leader from your state,'' Mr. Hill said, noting that Mr. Reid helped set up a meeting last August between several members of the state's application team and the F.A.A. administrator, Michael P. Huerta, when Mr. Huerta was in Las Vegas for an annual conference.
Ben Gielow, government relations manager for the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International, a nonprofit trade group, said similar meetings had taken place between officials from other states and top F.A.A. officials.
''It shows the high-level importance of this technology and the opportunity to test it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Predator drone was flown in 2009 during training at Creech Air Force Base in Nevada. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETHAN MILLER/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (77%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); GOVERNORS (73%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); FORECLOSURE (64%); CLIMATE CHANGE (62%); DESERTS (62%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); FOREST FIRES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%) NEVADA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



726 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: Nike Profit Rises, Despite Weak China Sales

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEAVERTON, Ore. (AP) -- Nike, the athletic clothing and equipment maker, said on Thursday that its income rose 55 percent in its most recent quarter as a resurgence in North America and easing material costs helped offset continued weakness in China. 
Nike beat expectations, and its shares rose 8 percent in after-hours trading.
Nike has been dealing with Europe's fluctuating economy and a slowdown in growth in China. The company has been reducing its inventory in China and reworking its offerings there to adapt to the changing tastes of Chinese consumers.
It also has been focusing on growth in North America, selling off less profitable brands like Umbro to focus on core brands like Nike.
The company's quarterly results show Nike's strategy is paying off in North America, but it still faces weakness in China. North American revenue, which accounts for 40 percent of all revenue, rose 18 percent to $2.55 billion. Revenue in China, which accounts for 10 percent of revenue, was down 9 percent to $635 million.
''The U.S. business continues to be just phenomenal,'' said Paul Swinand, a Morningstar analyst. But he added that ''for real long-term growth to be solid, it has got to come from China and emerging markets.''
In a call with analysts, the chief executive, Mark Parker, said the company was seeing progress in China, but ''we still have more to do before we can capture its long-term growth potential.''
Net income for the three months ended Feb. 28 rose to $866 million, or 73 cents a share. That compares with $560 million, or 61 cents a share, last year. Analysts expected 67 cents a share, according to FactSet.
Higher labor costs were more than offset by raising prices and easing material costs, the company said.
Revenue rose 9 percent to $6.19 billion, from $5.66 billion last year, nearly matching analysts' expectations of revenue of $6.2 billion.
Nike brand revenue rose 10 percent excluding currency fluctuations, growing everywhere but China and Japan. Growth from other brands, including Converse, Nike Gold and Hurley rose 9 percent.
Orders for Nike shoes and apparel to be delivered from May to July rose 6 percent to $9.9 billion. That includes an 11 percent increase in North America, a 5 percent decline in Western Europe and a 4 percent increase in China.
Mr. Parker said e-commerce was a focus for the future. Online revenue rose 33 percent in the quarter, but Mr. Parker said he would like to expand that business more. The company, he said, will improve the online shopping experience.
Shares rose $4.44, or more than 8 percent, to $58.04 in after-hours trading, after ending the day down $1.23, or 2.2 percent at $53.60.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); APPAREL MFG (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BRANDING (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); INTERNET RETAILING (60%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (58%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: NIKE INC (96%)

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (96%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (96%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (96%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (96%)

PERSON: MARK G PARKER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%) CHINA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



727 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5454 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of Obama's Speech in Israel

 BODY:
Following is a complete transcript of President Obama's remarks in Jerusalem on March 21, 2013. (Transcript courtesy of Federal News Service).
The welcome that I've received from the people of Israel. (Cheers, applause.) Thank you. I bring with me the support of the American people -- (cheers, applause) -- and the friendship that binds us together. (Cheers, applause.)
You know, over the last two days I've reaffirmed the bonds between our countries with Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Peres. I've borne witness to the ancient history of the Jewish people at the Shrine of the Book, and I've seen Israel's shining future in your scientists and your entrepreneurs. This is a nation of museums and patents, timeless holy sites, groundbreaking innovation. Only in Israel could you see the Dead Sea Scrolls and the place where the technology onboard the Mars rover originated at the same time. (Cheers, applause.)
But what I've most looked forward to is the ability to speak directly to you, the Israeli people, especially so many young people who are here today -- (cheers, applause) -- to talk to you about the history that brought us here today and the future that you will make in the years to come. 
Now, I know that in Israel's vibrant democracy, every word, every gesture is carefully scrutinized. (Laughter.) But I -- I want to clear something up, just so you know: Any drama between me and my friend Bibi over the years was just a plot to create material for Eretz Nehederet. (Cheers, applause.) That's the only -- only thing that was going on. We just -- we just wanted to make sure the writers had good material. (Laughter.)
I also know that I come to Israel on the eve of a sacred holiday -- the celebration of Passover. And that is where I would like to begin today. Just a few days from now Jews here in Israel and around the world will sit with family and friends at the Seder table and celebrate with songs, wine and symbolic foods. After enjoying Seders with family and friends in Chicago and on the campaign trail, I'm proud that I've now brought this tradition into the White House.
And I did so -- (applause) -- I did so because I wanted my daughters to experience the Haggadah and the story at the center of Passover that makes this time of year so powerful. It's a story of centuries of slavery and years of wandering in the desert; a story of perseverance amidst persecution and faith in God and the Torah.
It's a story about finding freedom in your own land. And for the Jewish people, this story is central to who you've become.
But it's also a story that holds within it the universal human experience, with all of its suffering but also all of its salvation. It's a part of the three great religions -- Judaism, Christianity and Islam -- that trace their origins to Abraham and see Jerusalem as sacred. And it's a story that's inspired communities across the globe, including me and my fellow Americans.
In the United States, a nation made of up people who crossed oceans to start anew, we're naturally drawn to the idea of finding freedom in our land. To African-Americans, the story of the exodus was perhaps the central story, the most powerful image, about emerging from the grip of bondage to reach for liberty and human dignity -- a tale that was carried from slavery through the civil rights movement into today.
For generations, this promise helped people weather poverty and persecution while holding on to the hope that a better day was on the horizon. For me personally, growing up in far-flung parts of the world and without firm roots, the story spoke to a yearning within every human being for a home. (Applause.)
Of course, even as we draw strength from the story of God's will and his gift of freedom expressed on Passover, we also know that here on Earth we must bear our responsibilities in an imperfect world.
That means accepting our measure of sacrifice and struggle, just like previous generations. It means us working through generation after generation on behalf of that ideal of freedom. As Dr. Martin Luther King said on the day before he was killed, ''I may not get there with you. But I want you to know that we, as a people, will get to the promised land.'' So just -- (applause) -- so just as Joshua carried on after Moses, the work goes on for all of you, the Joshua generation -- for justice and dignity, for opportunity and freedom.
For the Jewish people, the journey to the promise of the state of Israel wound through countless generations. It involved centuries of suffering and exile, prejudice and pogroms and even genocide. Through it all, the Jewish people sustained their unique identity and traditions, as well as a longing to return home. And while Jews achieved extraordinary success in many parts of the world, the dream of true freedom finally found its full expression in the Zionist idea -- to be a free people in your homeland.
And that's why I believe that Israel is rooted not just in history and tradition but also in a simple and profound idea: the -- the idea that people deserve to be free in a land of their own. (Cheers, applause.)
Over the last 65 years, when Israel has been at its best, Israelis have demonstrated that responsibility does not end when you reach the promised land, it only begins.
And so Israel has been a refuge for the diaspora, welcoming Jews from Europe, from the former Soviet Union, from Ethiopia, from North Africa. (Applause.)
Israel has built a prosperous nation, through kibbutzeem that made the desert bloom, business that broadened the middle class, innovators who reached new frontiers, from the smallest microchip to the orbits of space.
Israel has established a thriving democracy with a spirited civil society and proud political parties and a tireless free press and a lively public debate -- lively may be an understatement. (Applause.)
And Israel has achieved all this even as it's overcome relentless threats to its security, through the courage of the Israel Defense Forces and a citizenry that is so resilient in the face of terror.
This is the story of Israel. This is the work that has brought the dreams of so many generations to life. And every step of the way, Israel has built unbreakable bonds of friendship with my country, the United States of America. (Applause.)
Those ties began only eleven minutes after Israeli independence, when the United States was the first nation to recognize the State of Israel. (Applause.)
As President Truman said in explaining his decision to recognize Israel, he said, ''I believe it has a glorious future before it, not just as another sovereign nation, but as an embodiment of the great ideals of our civilization.''
And since then, we've built a friendship that advances our shared interests. Together, we share a commitment to security for our citizens and the stability of the Middle East and North Africa. Together, we share a focus on advancing economic growth around the globe and strengthening the middle class within our own countries. Together, we share a stake in the success of democracy.
But the source of our friendship extends beyond mere interests, just as it has transcended political parties and individual leaders. America's a nation of immigrants. America's strengthened by diversity. America's enriched by faith. We are governed not simply by men and women but by laws. We're fueled by entrepreneurship and innovation, and we are defined by a democratic discourse that allows each generation to reimagine and renew our union once more. So in Israel, we see values that we share, even as we recognize what makes us different. That is an essential part of our bond.
Now, I stand here today mindful that for both our nations, these are some complicated times. We have difficult issues to work through within our own countries, and we face dangers and upheaval around the world. And when I look at young people within the United States, I think about the choices that they must make in their lives to define who we'll be as a nation in this 21st century, particularly as we emerge from two wars and the worst recession since the Great Depression.
But part of the reason I like talking to young people is because no matter how great the challenges are, their idealism, their energy, their ambition always gives me hope. (Cheers, applause.)
And I see the same spirit in the young people here today. (Cheers, applause.) I believe that you will shape our future. And given the ties between our countries, I believe your future is bound to ours.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.) (Mixed cheers and boos.)
PRESIDENT OBAMA: No, no. (Chuckles.)
AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.)
PRESIDENT OBAMA: This is part of the lively debate that we talked about. (Cheers, applause.) This is good. (Cheers, applause.) (Chuckles.) The -- you know -- (cheers, applause) -- (chuckles) -- (continued cheers and applause) -- you know, I'd -- (chuckles) -- I have to say we actually arranged for that because it made me feel at home. (Laughter, cheers, applause.) You know, I -- I wouldn't feel comfortable if I didn't have at least one heckler. (Laughter.) (Chuckles.)
I'd like to focus on how we -- and when I say we, in particular young people -- can work together to make progress in three areas that will define our times: security, peace, and prosperity. (Applause.)
Let me begin with security. I'm proud that the security relationship between the United States and Israel has never been stronger. (Cheers, applause.) Never. More exercises between our militaries. More exchanges among our political and military and intelligence officials than ever before. The largest program to date to help you retain your qualitative military edge. These are the facts; these aren't my opinions. These are facts.
But to me, this is not simply measured on a balance sheet. I know that here, in Israel, security is something personal. Here's what I think about when I consider these issues.
When I consider Israel's security, I think about children like Osher Twito, who I met in Sderot. (Applause.) Children, the same age as my own daughters, who went to bed at night fearful that a rocket would land in their bedroom simply because of who they are and where they live. (Applause.)
That reality is why we've invested in the Iron Dome system, to save countless lives, because those children deserve to sleep better at night. (Cheers, applause.)
That's why we've made it clear time and again that Israel cannot accept rocket attacks from Gaza, and we have stood up for Israel's right to defend itself. (Cheers, applause.) And that's why Israel has a right to expect Hamas to renounce violence and recognize Israel's right to exist. (Cheers, applause.)
When I think about Israel's security, I think about five Israelis who boarded a bus in Bulgaria, who were blown up because of where they came from, robbed of the ability to live and love and raise families. That's why every country that values justice should call Hezbollah what it truly is, a terrorist organization -- (cheers, applause) -- because the world cannot tolerate an organization that murders innocent civilians, stockpiles rockets to shoot at cities and supports the massacre of men and women and children in Syria right now. (Applause.)
The fact that Hezbollah's ally, the Assad regime, has -- has stockpiles of chemical weapons only heightens the urgency. We will continue to cooperate closely to guard against that danger. I've made it clear to Bashar al-Assad and all who follow his orders: We will not tolerate the use of chemical weapons against the Syrian people or the transfer of those weapons to terrorists. The world is watching. We will hold you accountable. (Cheers, applause.)
The Syrian people have the right to be freed from the grip of a dictator who would rather kill his own people than relinquish power.
(Cheers, applause.) Assad must go so that Syria's future can begin, because true stability in Syria depends upon establishing a government that is responsible to its people, one that protects all communities within its borders, while making peace with countries beyond them. These are the things I think about when I think about Israel's security.
When I consider Israel's security, I also think about a people who have a living memory of the Holocaust, faced with the prospect of a nuclear-armed Iranian government that has called for Israel's destruction. It's no wonder Israelis view this as an existential threat.
But this is not simply a challenge for Israel; it is a danger for the entire world, including the United States. (Cheers, applause.) A nuclear-armed Iran would raise the risk of nuclear terrorism. It would undermine the nonproliferation regime. It would spark an arms race in a volatile region. And it would embolden a government that has shown no respect for the rights of its own people or the responsibilities of nations.
And that's why America has built a coalition to increase the cost to Iran of failing to meet their obligations. The Iranian government is now under more pressure than ever before, and that pressure is increasing. It is isolated. Its economy is in dire straits. It (sic) leadership is divided. And its position in the region and the world has only grown weaker. (Applause.)
I do believe that all of us have an interest in resolving this issue peacefully.
Strong and principled diplomacy -- (applause) -- strong and principled diplomacy is the best way to ensure that the Iranian government forsakes nuclear weapons. (Applause.) Peace is far more preferable to war, and the inevitable costs, the unintended consequences that would come with war means that we have to do everything we can to try to resolve this diplomatically. Because of the cooperation between our governments, we know that there remains time to pursue a diplomatic resolution. That's what America will do, with clear eyes, working with a world that's united and with the sense of urgency that's required.
But Iran must know this time is not unlimited, and I've made the position of the United States of America clear. Iran must not get a nuclear weapon. This is not a danger that can be contained -- (applause) -- and as president, I've said all options are on the table for achieving our objectives. America will do what we must to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran. (Cheers, applause.)
For young Israelis, I know that these issues of security are rooted in an experience that's even more fundamental than the pressing threat of the day. You live in a neighborhood where many of your neighbors have rejected the right of your nation to exist, and your grandparents had to risk their lives and all that they had to make a place for themselves in this world.
Your parents lived through war after war to ensure the survival of the Jewish state. Your children grow up knowing that people they've never met may hate them because of who they are, in a region that is full of turmoil and changing underneath your feet.
So that's what I think about when Israel's faced with these challenges -- that sense of an Israel that is surrounded by many in this region who reject it and many in the world who refuse to accept it. That's why the security of the Jewish people in Israel is so important; it cannot be taken for granted. But make no mistake: Those who adhere to the ideology of rejecting Israel's right to exist -- they might as well reject the earth beneath them and the sky above, because Israel's not going anywhere. (Cheers, applause.)
And today I want to tell you, particularly the young people, so that -- so that there's no mistake here, so long as there is a United States of America, ''Ah-tem lo lah-vahd.'' (Cheers, applause.) You are not alone. (Applause.)
The question is what kind of future Israel will look forward to.
Israel's not going anywhere, but especially for the young people in this audience, the question is, what does its future hold? And that brings me to the subject of peace. (Applause.)
I know Israel has taken risks for peace. Brave leaders -- Menachem Begin, Yitzhak Rabin -- reached treaties with two of your neighbors. You made credible proposals to the Palestinians at Annapolis. You withdrew from Gaza and Lebanon and then faced terror and rockets. Across the region, you've extended a hand of friendship, and all too often you've been confronted with rejection and, in some cases, the ugly reality of anti-Semitism. So I believe that the Israeli people do want peace, and I also understand why too many Israelis, maybe an increasing number, maybe a lot of young people here today, are skeptical that it can be achieved.
But today, Israel is at a crossroads. It can be tempting to put aside the frustrations and sacrifices that come with the pursuit of peace, particularly when Iron Dome repels rockets, barriers keep out suicide bombers, there are so many other pressing issues that demand your attention. And I know that only Israelis can make the fundamental decisions about your country's future. (Applause.) I recognize that.
I also know, by the way, that not everyone in this hall will agree with what I have to say about peace. I recognize that there are those who are not simply skeptical about peace, but question its underlying premise, have a different vision for Israel's future. And that's part of a democracy. That's part of the discourse between our two countries. I recognize that. But I also believe it's important to be open and honest, especially with your friends. (Applause.) I also believe that.
You know, politically, given the strong bipartisan support for Israel in America, the easiest thing for me to do would be to put this issue aside, just express unconditional support for whatever Israel decides to do. That would be the easiest political path. But I want you to know that I speak to you as a friend who is deeply concerned and committed to your future, and I ask you to consider three points.
First, peace is necessary. (Cheers, applause.) I believe that. I believe that peace is the only path to true security. You can be -- (applause) -- you have the opportunity to be the generation that permanently secures the Zionist dream, or you can face a growing challenge to its future. Given the demographics west of the Jordan River, the only way for Israel to endure and thrive as a Jewish and democratic state is through the realization of an independent and viable Palestine.
(Cheers, applause.) That is true. (Sustained cheers, applause.)
There are other factors involved. Given the frustration in the international community about this conflict, Israel needs to reverse an undertow of isolation. And given the march of technology, the only way to truly protect the Israeli people over the long term is through the absence of war, because no wall is high enough and no Iron Dome is strong enough or perfect enough to stop every enemy -- (applause) -- that is intent on doing so from inflicting harm. (Applause.)
And this truth is more pronounced given the changes sweeping the Arab world. I understand that with the uncertainty in the region, people in the streets, changes in leadership, the rise of nonsecular parties in politics, it's tempting to turn inward because the situation outside of Israel seems so chaotic. But this is precisely the time to respond to the wave of revolution with a resolve and commitment for peace, because -- (applause) -- as more governments respond to popular will, the days when Israel could seek peace simply with a handful of autocratic leaders -- those days are over.
Peace will have to be made among peoples, not just governments. (Applause.) No one -- no single step can change overnight what lies in the hearts and minds of millions. No single step is going to erase years of history and propaganda. But progress with the Palestinians is a powerful way to begin, while sidelining extremists who thrive on conflict and thrive on division. It would make a difference. (Cheers, applause.)
So peace is necessary. But peace is also just. Peace is also just. There is no question that Israel has faced Palestinian factions who turn to terror, leaders who missed historic opportunities. That is all true. And that's why security must be at the center of any agreement. (Scattered applause.) And there is no question that the only path to peace is through negotiations, which is why, despite the criticism we've received, the United States will oppose unilateral -- unilateral efforts to bypass negotiations through the United Nations. (Applause.) It has to be done by the parties.
But the Palestinian people's right to self-determination, their right to justice must also be recognized. (Cheers, applause.) And put yourself in their shoes. Look at the world through their eyes.
It is not fair that a Palestinian child cannot grow up in a state of their own -- (cheers, applause) -- living their entire lives with the presence of a foreign army that controls the movements, not just of those young people but their parents, their grandparents, every single day. It's not just when settler violence against Palestinians goes unpunished. (Applause.) It's not right to prevent Palestinians from farming their lands or restricting a student's ability to move around the West Bank -- (applause) -- or displace Palestinian families from their homes. Neither occupation nor expulsion is the answer. (Cheers, applause.) Just as Israelis built a state in their homeland, Palestinians have a right to be a free people in their own land. (Applause.)
But I -- I'm going off script here for a second, but before I -- before I came here, I -- I met with a -- a group of young Palestinians from the age of 15 to 22. And talking to them, they weren't that different from my daughters. They weren't that different from your daughters or sons.
I honestly believe that if -- if any Israeli parent sat down with those kids, they'd say, I want these kids to succeed. (Applause.) I want them to prosper. I want them to have opportunities just like my kids do. (Applause.) I believe that's what Israeli parents would want for these kids if they had a chance to listen to them and talk to them. (Cheers, applause.) I believe that. (Cheers, applause.)
Now, only you can determine what kind of democracy you will have. But remember that as you make these decisions, you will define not simply the future of your relationship with the Palestinians; you will -- you will define the future of Israel, as well. (Applause.) As Ariel Sharon said -- I'm quoting him -- ''It is impossible to have a Jewish, democratic state at the same time to control all of Eretz Israel. If we insist on fulfilling the dream in its entirety, we are liable to lose it all.'' (Applause.)
Or from a different perspective, I think of what the novelist David Grossman said shortly after losing his son, as he described the necessity of peace. A peace of no choice, he said, must be approached with the same determination and creativity as one approaches a war of no choice. (Applause.)
Now, Israel cannot be expected to negotiate with anyone who's dedicated to its destruction. (Applause.) But while I know you have had differences with the Palestinian Authority, I genuinely believe that you do have a true partner in President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad. (Applause.) I believe that. And they have a track record to prove it. Over the last few years, they have built institutions and maintained security on the West Bank in ways that few could have imagined just a few years ago. So many Palestinians, including young people, have rejected violence as a means of achieving their aspirations.
There is an opportunity there. There is a window, which brings me to my third point: Peace is possible. (Cheers, applause.) It is possible. I'm not saying it's guaranteed. I can't even say that it is more likely than not. But it is possible.
I know it doesn't seem that way. There are always going to be reasons to avoid risk. There are costs for failure. There will always be extremists who provide an excuse to not act. I know there must be something exhausting about endless talks about talks and daily controversies and just the grinding status quo, and I'm sure there's a temptation just to say, ach (ph), enough; let me focus on my small corner of the world and my family and my job and what I can control.
But it's possible. Negotiations will be necessary, but there's little secret about where they must lead: two states for two peoples -- (applause) -- two states for two peoples. (Cheers, applause.)
There will be differences about how to get there. There are going to be hard choices along the way. Arab states must adapt to a world that has changed. The days when they could condemn Israel to distract their people from a lack of opportunity or government corruption or mismanagement -- those days need to be over. Now's the time for the Arab world to take steps towards normalizing relations with Israel. (Applause.)
Meanwhile, Palestinians must recognize that Israel will be a Jewish state and that Israelis have the right to insist upon their security. (Applause.)
Israelis must recognize that continued settlement activity is counterproductive to the cause of peace and that an independent Palestine must be viable, with real borders that have to be drawn. (Cheers, applause.) I've suggested principles on territory and security that I believe can be the basis for these talks.
But -- but for the moment, put aside the plans and the process.
I ask you, instead, to think about what can be done to build trust between people.
Four years ago I stood in Cairo in front of an audience of young people. Politically, religiously, they must seem a world away. But the things they want -- they're not so different from what the young people here want. They want the ability to make their own decisions and to get an education and to get a good job, to worship God in their own way, to get married, to raise a family. The same is true of those young Palestinians that I met with this morning. The same is true for young Palestinians who yearn for a better life in Gaza.
That's where peace begins, not just in the plans of leaders, but in the hearts of people; not just in some carefully designed process, but in the daily connections, that sense of empathy that takes place among those who live together in this land and in this sacred city of Jerusalem. (Applause.) And let me say this as a politician, I can promise you this: Political leaders will never take risks if the people do not push them to take some risks. (Cheers, applause.) You must create the change that you want to see. Ordinary people can accomplish extraordinary things. (Sustained cheers and applause.)
I know this is possible. Look to the bridges being built in business and civil society by some of you here today. Look at young people who have not yet learned a reason to mistrust or those young people who have learned to overcome a legacy of mistrust that they inherited from their parents because they simply recognized that we hold more hopes in common than fears that drive us apart.
Your voices must be louder than those who would drown them out. Your hopes must light the way forward. Look to a future in which Jews and Muslims and Christians can all live in peace and greater prosperity in this Holy Land. Believe in that. (Cheers, applause.) And most of all, look to the future that you want for your own children, a future in which a Jewish, democratic, vibrant state is protected and accepted for this time and for all time. (Applause.)
There will be many who say this is not possible. But remember this: Israel is the most powerful country in this region. Israel has the unshakable support of the most powerful country in the world. (Applause.) Israel's not going anywhere. Israel has the wisdom to see the world as it is, but -- but this is -- this is in your nature -- Israel also the courage to see the world as it should be. You know -- (cheers, applause) -- Ben-Gurion once said in Israel, in order to be a realist, you must believe in miracles. (Laughter.) Sometimes the greatest miracle is recognizing that the world can change. That's a lesson that the world learned from the Jewish people.
And that brings me to the final area that I'll focus on: prosperity and Israel's broader role in the world. I know that all the talk about security and peace can sometimes seem to dominate the headlines, but that's not where people live.
And every day, even amidst the threats that you face, Israelis are defining themselves by the opportunities that you're creating.
Through talent and hard work, Israelis have put this small country at the forefront of the global economy. (Applause.) Israelis understand the value of education and have produced 10 Nobel laureates. (Cheers, applause.) Israelis understand the power of invention, and your universities educate engineers and inventors. And that spirit has led to economic growth and human progress: solar power and electric cars; bandages and prosthetic limbs that save lives; stem cell research and new drugs that treat disease; cell phones and computer technology that -- (applause) -- that change the way people around the world live.
So if people want to see the future of the world economy, they should look at Tel Aviv, home to hundreds of start-ups and research centers. (Cheers, applause.) Israelis are so active on social media that every day seemed to bring a different Facebook campaign about where I should give this speech. (Laughter, applause, cheers.)
That innovation is just as important to the relationship between the United States and Israel as our security cooperation. Our first free trade agreement in the world was reached with Israel, nearly three decades ago. (Applause.) Today the trade between our two countries is at $40 billion every year. (Applause.) More importantly, that partnership is creating new products and medical treatments; it's pushing new frontiers of science and exploration.
That's the kind of relationship that Israel should have -- and could have -- with every country in the world. Already we see how that innovation could reshape this region. There's a program here in Jerusalem that brings together young Israelis and Palestinians to learn vital skills in technology and business. An Israeli and Palestinian have started a venture capital fund to finance Palestinian startups. Over 100 high-tech companies have found a home on the West Bank, which speaks to the talent and entrepreneurial spirit of the Palestinian people.
You know, one of the great ironies of what's happening in the broader region is that so much of what people are yearning for -- education, entrepreneurship, the ability to start a business without paying a bribe, the ability to connect to the global economy -- those are things that can be found here, in Israel. This should be a hub for thriving regional trade and an engine for opportunity. (Applause.) Israel's already a center for innovation that helps power the global economy. And I believe that all of that potential for prosperity can be enhanced with greater security, enhanced with lasting peace. (Applause.)
Here, in this small strip of land that has been the center of so much of the world's history, so much triumph and so much tragedy, Israelis have built something that few could have imagined 65 years ago. Tomorrow I will pay tribute to that history -- at the grave of Herzl, a man who had the foresight to see that the future of the Jewish people had to be reconnected to their past; at the grave of Rabin, who understood that Israel's victories in war had to be followed by the battles for peace; at Yad Vashem, where the world is reminded of the cloud of evil that can descend on the Jewish people and all of humanity if we ever fail to be vigilant.
We bear all that history on our shoulders. We carry all that history in our hearts. Today, as we face the twilight of Israel's founding generation, you, the young people of Israel, must now claim its future. It falls to you to write the next chapter in the great story of this great nation.
And as the president of a country that you can count on as your greatest friend -- (applause) -- I am confident that you can help us find the promise in the days that lie ahead. And as a man who's been inspired in my own life by that timeless calling within the Jewish experience -- ''tikkun olam'' -- (applause) -- I am hopeful that we can draw upon what's best in ourselves to meet the challenges that will come, to win the battles for peace in the wake of so much war and to do the work of repairing this world. (Applause.)
That's your job. That's my job. That's the task of all of us. (Applause continues.)
May God bless you. May God bless Israel. May God bless the United States of America. (Cheers, applause.) ''Toda raba.'' Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSCRIPTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PASSOVER (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (85%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); HISTORY (75%); WRITERS (74%); RELIGION (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); PATENTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); SHIMON PERES (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%) MARS (56%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



728 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: As Pollution Worsens in China, Solutions Succumb to Infighting

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; Mia Li and Amy Qin contributed research from Beijing, and Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- China's state leadership transition took place this month against an ominous backdrop. More than 13,000 dead pigs were found floating in a river that provides drinking water to Shanghai. A haze akin to volcanic fumes cloaked the capital, causing convulsive coughing and obscuring the portrait ofMao Zedong on the gate to the Forbidden City.
So severe are China's environmental woes, especially the noxious air, that top government officials have been forced to openly acknowledge them. Fu Ying, the spokeswoman for the National People's Congress, said she checked for smog every morning after opening her curtains and kept at home face masks for her daughter and herself. Li Keqiang, the new prime minister, said the air pollution had made him ''quite upset'' and vowed to ''show even greater resolve and make more vigorous efforts'' to clean it up.
What the leaders neglect to say is that infighting within the government bureaucracy is one of the biggest obstacles to enacting stronger environmental policies. Even as some officials push for tighter restrictions on pollutants, state-owned enterprises -- especially China's oil and power companies -- have been putting profits ahead of health in working to outflank new rules, according to government data and interviews with people involved in policy negotiations. 
For instance, even though trucks and buses crisscrossing China are far worse for the environment than any other vehicles, the oil companies have delayed for years an improvement in the diesel fuel those vehicles burn. As a result, the sulfur levels of diesel in China are at least 23 times that of the United States. As for power companies, the three biggest ones in the country are all repeat violators of government restrictions on emissions from coal-burning plants; offending power plants are found across the country, from Inner Mongolia to the southwest metropolis of Chongqing.
The state-owned enterprises are given critical roles in policy-making on environmental standards. The committees that determine fuel standards, for example, are housed in the buildings of an oil company. Whether the enterprises can be forced to follow, rather than impede, environmental restrictions will be a critical test of the commitment of Mr. Li andXi Jinping, the new party chief and president, to curbing the influence of vested interests in the economy.
Last month, after deadly air pollution hit record levels in northern China, officials led byWen Jiabao, then the prime minister, put forward strict new fuel standards that the oil companies had blocked for years. But there are doubts about whether the oil companies will comply, especially since oil officials resisted a similar government order for higher-grade fuel four years ago. State-owned power companies have been similarly resistant. The companies regularly ignore government orders to upgrade coal-burning electricity plants, according to ministry data. And as with the oil companies, the power companies exert an outsize influence over environmental policy debates.
In 2011, during a round of discussions over stricter emissions standards, the China Electricity Council, which represents the companies, pushed back hard against the proposals, saying that the costs of upgrading the plants would be too high.
''During the procedure of setting the standard, the companies or the industry councils have a lot of influence,'' said Zhou Rong, a campaign manager on energy issues for Greenpeace East Asia. ''My personal opinion is even if we have the most stringent standards for every sector, the companies will violate those.''
On Feb. 28, Deutsche Bank released an analysts' note saying that China's current economic policies would result in an enormous surge in coal consumption and automobile sales over the next decade. ''China's air pollution will become a lot worse from the already unbearable level,'' the analysts said, calling for drastic policy changes and ''a strong government will to overcome the opposition from interest groups.''
The report estimated that the number of passenger cars in China was on track to hit 400 million by 2030, up from 90 million now.
For the most part, Chinese automakers have supported upgrading cars with cleaner technology, which makes them more marketable worldwide, environmental advocates say. But better technology cannot operate properly without high-quality fuel, and this is where the bottleneck occurs.
The system of forging fuel standards has led to fierce bureaucratic infighting.
The Ministry of Environmental Protection is the main government advocate for both higher fuel standards and better automobile technology. It has the power to force automakers to use new technology by issuing stricter tailpipe emissions standards, but it cannot unilaterally impose new fuel standards or enforce compliance from the oil companies. Instead, it can merely lobby other relevant ministries or agencies to take action.
When fuel standards do not keep pace with vehicle technology, the environmental ministry has to delay issuing new tailpipe emissions standards, and so cars do not get upgraded.
Fuel standards are issued by the Standardization Administration of China, which convenes a committee and a subcommittee to research standards.
They each have 30 to 40 members, almost all of whom are from oil companies, said Yue Xin, a scientist who sits on one of the groups on behalf of the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
The members from the oil companies ''will represent more of the company's interests,'' Mr. Yue said. Sinopec and PetroChina, two of the biggest oil companies, have insisted that consumers or the government pay to upgrade their refineries to produce cleaner fuel, and they have delayed approving higher standards unless there is consensus on who pays.
''Sinopec for years has never argued against the need to improve China's standards,'' said David Vance Wagner, a senior researcher at the International Council on Clean Transportation who used to work under the Chinese Ministry of Environmental Protection. ''They've just argued about the finance of it.''
In late January, Fu Chengyu, chairman of Sinopec, acknowledged that the oil companies bore some responsibility for air pollution, but he also argued that the government's fuel standards were not high enough, according to Xinhua, the state news agency. What Mr. Fu failed to explain was that oil company representatives on the committees researching fuel standards have been the main impediment to pushing through better standards.
Mr. Yue and others say that because of constant haggling by the oil companies, the government for years delayed issuing upgraded China IV diesel standards that are on par with European standards. On Feb. 6, after the uproar over record-breaking air pollution, the State Council, China's cabinet, smashed the gridlock by putting out guidelines that called for a nationwide adoption of the new China IV diesel standards by the end of 2014.
It also set deadlines on the issuing and phasing in of even cleaner China V standards. The next day, the Standardization Administration of China issued the upgraded China IV diesel standards that the oil companies had been trying to delay for years.
But the costs of upgrading could still lead the oil companies to ignore the new standards, which is what they did when the State Council in 2009 ordered a phase-in of the China III diesel standard.
In the Feb. 6 announcement, the State Council said the government needed to create a fiscal policy to support the refinery upgrades, but the Ministry of Finance has yet to make the policy.
Another big concern lies in the debate over the cleaner China V gasoline standard, which the State Council said must be issued by December and phased in by the end of 2017. In the committee debates, Sinopec argues that it is expensive to meet the requirements for sulfur levels.
Oil company representatives did not reply to requests for comment. In public, oil company executives are trying to shift the blame. Mr. Fu told reporters this month that ''in fact the biggest killer is coal.''
Beijing officials have said that vehicle emissions account for 22 percent of the main deadly particulate matter in the air, known as PM 2.5, and another 40 percent is from coal-fired factories in Beijing and nearby provinces.
In February, the Ministry of Environmental Protection issued stricter factory emissions standards for six coal-burning industries. First on the list is the power industry, which accounts for about half the coal consumption in China.
But compliance by the state-owned enterprises could be a problem. The environmental ministry publishes annual lists of factories that have violated emissions regulations. A review shows that the factories are all run by the biggest power companies.
The annual lists represent only a fraction of the plants in violation, since installation by the factories of monitoring equipment is spotty, and the equipment readings can be manipulated, said Kevin Jianjun Tu, an energy scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Another problem is the low penalties: fines are generally capped around $16,000, not much of a deterrent, said Ms. Zhou, the Greenpeace representative. She said the violating factories ''should be required to stop production temporarily -- that would then force companies to take this seriously.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Smog veiled the China Central Television Building in Beijing last week. Air pollution hit record levels in north China last month.
 Workers at a trash disposal center in east Beijing near the billowing chimney of a power plant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); AIR POLLUTION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (87%); POWER PLANTS (87%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (86%); DIESEL FUEL (77%); SMOG (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (65%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (61%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (89%); CHONGQING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); EAST CHINA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



729 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Hockey Gear Is the Focus Of Tariff Cut In Canada

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
OTTAWA -- Take a walk down an aisle at Pro Hockey Life, an emporium of the Canadian national sport here on the capital's southern fringe, and a customer comes away with a decidedly non-Canadian feel. Almost every pad, mask, stick and skate is made elsewhere -- mostly in Asia, often by foreign-owned manufacturers.
Just about the only thing Canadian about buying hockey equipment in Canada has for years been the tariff on imported goods. Now, even that quirk of Canadian hockey history is going away. 
On Thursday, the finance minister, Jim Flaherty, announced that the Conservative government would end import tariffs on all sports equipment, except bicycles, on April 1. The tariffs were as high as 18 percent.
Usually, changes to tariff policy are more the concern of budget directors and accountants, but this change has become a national obsession, with the focus almost entirely on hockey equipment.
Even before it was officially announced, the end of the tariff was cast by the Conservatives' opponents as more of a political than an economic measure.
In the budget, the government said the end to the duties came ''with an expectation that wholesalers, distributors and retailers will pass these savings on to consumers.''
But exactly how much the move will save Canadian hockey players or, more likely, their parents is unclear.
Sitting in the stands of the Brewer Arena, a community rink in Ottawa, while his 11-year-old son's team practiced for a tournament, Brendan McCoy said that the tariff change would not improve his family's fortunes.
''The big cost is the ice time,'' Mr. McCoy said, noting that much of his son's gear was bought secondhand. ''Equipment, at most, is a couple of hundred dollars every couple of years. If the government thinks it's going to get my vote with this, it's seriously mistaken.''
What was clear on Thursday is that the announcement highlighted what had become a quiet source of embarrassment to the many devotees of Canada's game, or as some see it, Canada's national religion: that very little hockey gear is produced here.
The aisles at Pro Hockey Life provided many examples: a wall of gloves made in China for Reebok (a unit of Germany's Adidas) and in Vietnam for C.C.M. (another Adidas operation) faces off against gloves from China bearing the logos of Bauer (Canada-based but run from New Hampshire) and Easton (owned by Easton Bell Sports of Van Nuys, Calif.). There were also imports from the Philippines sold by Sher-Wood (privately and Canadian-owned).
A selection of skates sprawled across the back of the store. But the only Canadian-made models were priced from $500 to $600 a pair and came from Graf, a skate maker whose headquarters are in Switzerland.
''About 90 to 95 percent of hockey equipment is made in Asia,'' said Richard Desjardins, the product manager at Sher-Wood, which is based in Sherbrooke, Quebec. ''Everybody knows it. Made in Canada might have been important 10 years ago. But now it's all about how much you pay.''
Sher-Wood ended production of protective equipment over 10 years ago and outsourced its entire production of sticks, its signature product, two years ago to China and Ukraine. Mr. Desjardins said that it only added maple leaves or the slogan ''designed in Canada'' to products sold in Europe, the last place where a Canadian connection still had marketing power.
The government's decision to eliminate tariffs that were protecting a largely nonexistent industry seems to have more to do with online shopping and the rise of the Canadian dollar to parity with its American counterpart.
For example, many of the skates at Pro Hockey Life priced from $500 to $700, a surprisingly large category, are available from American online retailers at prices that are at least $100 lower because of low tariffs in the United States.
''We appreciate that there's a pricing differential between Canada and the United States,'' said Kevin M. Davis, the president and chief executive of Bauer Performance Sports. He added that his company was likely to reduce its wholesale prices, but that ''we can't control what happens with retail pricing.''
Bauer, which was once owned by Nike, and Reebok-C.C.M. Hockey are by far the dominant equipment makers in the Canadian hockey market. At both companies, Canadian production is now limited to relatively small numbers of custom-made skates for professional players and affluent amateurs. Similarly, a handful of small producers, like the goalie pad maker Vaughn, serve the high end of the market.
As for why it took Canada so long to adjust its tariffs to reflect the changes in the hockey equipment business, Mr. Desjardins was uncertain.
''It's been in the tariff code for a long time,'' he said. ''Maybe they just overlooked it.''
All is not lost for the Canadian hockey equipment industry: the humble puck, with its 5.6 ounces or so of vulcanized rubber, is still produced at home.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Most skates and sticks are no longer made in Canada. Players laced up their skates on Lake Louise in Alberta. (B1)
 Hockey players on Lake Louise. The hockey goods tariff shielded a largely nonexistent industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM SZCZERBOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (76%); WHOLESALERS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); TOURNAMENTS (64%); GLOVE & MITTEN MFG (56%)

PERSON: JIM FLAHERTY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) CANADA (99%); ASIA (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); GERMANY (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



730 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 553 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Panel to Investigate Human Rights Abuses in North Korea

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
PARIS -- The United Nations Human Rights Council voted on Thursday in Geneva to create a three-person commission to look into allegations of human rights violations in North Korea, including food deprivation, labor camps for political prisoners and torture. 
The 47-member council was unanimous in adopting a resolution sponsored by the European Union and Japan and backed by the United States. With no Chinese or Russian vote on the current council, North Korea lacked an ally willing to oppose the inquiry.
The commission, to run for a year, will include Marzuki Darusman, an Indonesian lawyer and special rapporteur for the council who wrote a report identifying various human rights violations, including the kidnapping of foreigners and a system of labor camps that hold an estimated 200,000 prisoners. He said the situation had worsened since Kim Jong-un took over after his father's death in December 2011.
The North Korean ambassador to the United Nations, So Se Pyong, rejected the commission as ''an instrument that serves the political purposes of the hostile forces in their attempt to discredit the image'' of North Korea, and denied that any human rights abuses existed in his country. A week ago, he told the council that the proposed commission was a United Nations plot and denounced the report as ''fake material.''
North Korea is being watched especially closely these days for saber rattling and threats of warfare.
In February, Pyongyang carried out a nuclear test despite warnings by the United States and China, and this month, after the United Nations Security Council voted to impose new economic sanctions, it issued threats against South Korea and the United States. A computer virus attack this week against South Korea is believed to have originated in the North.
The United Nations human rights commissioner, Navi Pillay, called the human rights situation in North Korea ''the worst in the whole world'' in an interview with the news agency Reuters.
Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, said the new inquiry raised the pressure on North Korea beyond the usual ''routine condemnations.'' He told Radio Australia that the commission would have a better-staffed investigative body to collect evidence to use in a potential prosecution, perhaps before the International Criminal Court.
At the moment, ''there is no international tribunal that has jurisdiction over North Korea,'' Mr. Roth said. ''Theoretically, the International Criminal Court could be brought in with a resolution from the U.N. Security Council, yet China would probably veto that at this stage. But collecting the evidence is the first step toward putting pressure on the international community, and whoever North Korea's defenders are, to ultimately acquiesce in prosecution is one way to deter the terrible atrocities that are routinely committed in North Korea.''
The Human Rights Council also urged Sri Lanka on Thursday to carry out more credible investigations into killings and disappearances during its long civil war, especially in the conflict's last stages in 2009, when tens of thousands of people were killed. The resolution, which was sponsored by the United States, is not binding, and is the second in two years. It also expressed concern over reports of continuing violations of human rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TORTURE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); JURISDICTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: KIM JONG UN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



731 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 6462 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'The Assembled Parties' (in previews; opens on April 17) Nobody could accuse Richard Greenberg of slacking this season. Within weeks of unveiling his take on ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' and a month ahead of the ''Far From Heaven'' musical adaptation for which he wrote the book, Mr. Greenberg introduces this new work. Directed by Lynne Meadow for Manhattan Theater Club, it focuses on a well-heeled Upper West Side Jewish family whose stability is threatened at the dawn of the 21st century. The cast includes Jessica Hecht, Judith Light and Jeremy Shamos. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Big Knife' (previews start on Friday; opens on April 16) Following last year's sterling revival of ''Golden Boy,'' the Clifford Odets appreciation season continues with this production from Roundabout. The caustic 1949 work drew on Odets's firsthand experience as a Hollywood screenwriter to observe the machinations behind the studio management of a star embroiled in a scandal that threatens to end his career. Doug Hughes directs an ensemble headed by Bobby Cannavale and Marin Ireland, along with the veterans Richard Kind and Chip Zien. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Brits Off Broadway' (opens on Wednesday) The eclectic annual showcase of British theater imports is now in its ninth year. Among the lineup's possible highlights is ''Good With People,'' a two-hander by the Scottish playwright David Harrower (''Blackbird''), set in a once-thriving holiday resort that is now home to Britain's nuclear defense program. Mike Bartlett trades sexuality for office politics in ''Bull,'' his companion piece to ''The Cockfight Play.'' And Neil Bartlett teams with the mezzo-soprano Jessica Walker on ''The Girl I Left Behind Me,'' a tribute to cross-dressing women on British and American revue stages. There's also a forgotten J.B. Priestley play, ''Cornelius,'' plucked from obscurity after 75 years. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Rooney)
'Buyer & Cellar' (in previews; opens on April 3) Michael Urie, known for his bitchy fashion flunky on ''Ugly Betty,'' and on the stage, for his gay activism pioneer in ''The Temperamentals,'' stars in Jonathan Tolins's comedy about a struggling Los Angeles actor who takes a job toiling in the Malibu basement of a revered superstar. His understanding of the price of fame changes when he finally gets to meet his idol. Stephen Brackett directs. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Rooney)
'The Call' (previews start on Friday; opens on April 14) No, it's not a stage version of the Halle Berry girl-in-peril movie. Tanya Barfield's politically charged drama concerns a couple whose choice to adopt a child from Africa prompts them to question their identity as white Americans. Leigh Silverman directs the co-production between Playwrights Horizons and Primary Stages, with a strong cast that includes Kelly AuCoin, Kerry Butler, Eisa Davis, Crystal A. Dickinson and Russell G. Jones. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'A Dream Play' (previews start on Friday; opens on Wednesday) Sung Rno and Andrew Pang wrote this new adaptation of August Strindberg's influential 1901 drama for the National Asian American Theater Company. A precursor to European Expressionism and Surrealism onstage, the play has worked its spell on a number of theater luminaries over the past century, among them Ingmar Bergman, Antonin Artaud, Robert Lepage, Robert Wilson and Caryl Churchill. Staged here by Mr. Pang, it centers on the daughter of a god sent down to Earth by her father to observe the ''Creator's children,'' finding much to be pitied in human suffering. Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org (Rooney)
'Kinky Boots' (in previews; opens on April 4) Cyndi Lauper has been a fixture in the New York theater community for so long that it's hard to believe that she's never written for Broadway. (She has performed there, in the 2006 revival of ''The Threepenny Opera.'') Here she collaborates with two men who have more than two dozen Broadway credits between them, the book writer Harvey Fierstein and the director-choreographer Jerry Mitchell. Together they take on the feel-good 2005 film about a drag queen (played onstage by Billy Porter) who takes on the task of saving a failing shoe factory. Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Eric Grode)
'The Last Five Years' (in previews; opens on April 2) This two-character 2002 musical by Jason Robert Brown has become a juggernaut in terms of regional productions (more than 500) and audition songs (seemingly limitless). It also went a long way toward cementing the careers of its original New York stars, Norbert Leo Butz and Sherie Rene Scott, so theater buffs may be curious to see what the new cast -- Adam Kantor (''Rent'') and Betsy Wolfe (''The Mystery of Edwin Drood'') -- will do with this show, which uses a curious narrative structure to chart a disintegrating marriage. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
'Lucky Guy' (in previews; opens on April 1) In New York City in the mid-1980s, the sight of Mike McAlary, the squinty-eyed, thick-mustached Irishman, looking out from a newsstand was a sign that he had unearthed yet another scandalous tidbit from the police beat. Nora Ephron, who worked at The New York Post before McAlary did, was there to see it all; so was George C. Wolfe, then just beginning his ascent in the New York theater world. Ephron finished this sprawling play about the muckraking columnist before she died last year, leaving it in the hands of Mr. Wolfe, who directs, and a cast led by Tom Hanks (making his Broadway debut). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Matilda the Musical' (in previews; opens on April 11) This musical take on Roald Dahl's beloved 1988 children's novel features four young actresses each having a go at Matilda, the telekinetic little girl with beastly parents and an even worse headmistress, Miss Trunchbull (Bertie Carvel, in his Broadway debut, repeating his best actor Olivier Award-winning London performance). A draw for the parents may be Tim Minchin, an Australian musician and comedian who wrote the music and lyrics. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Motown: the Musical' (in previews; opens on April 14) He has been a boxer, a record store owner and perhaps the greatest hit-making producer of all time, so why shouldn't Berry Gordy add Broadway book writer to his résumé? He has a decent safety net in the form of the peerless Motown song catalog, which includes several tunes he had a part in writing. Expect to see and hear Smokey, Diana, Marvin and many, many, many others, all directed by Charles Randolph-Wright and supported by a relatively luxurious 18-piece orchestra. Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'The Nance' (in previews; opens on April 15) A stock figure of traditional burlesque, the nance was a stereotypical sissy usually played by a heterosexual performer. That's not the case in Douglas Carter Beane's new play, which stars Nathan Lane in the title role of a man juggling his career as a beloved stage headliner with a messy secret life in the gay underground of 1930s New York. Jack O'Brien directs an ensemble that reunites Mr. Lane with his ''Producers'' cast mate Cady Huffman. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Orphans' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April 18) Alec Baldwin returns to Broadway post-''30 Rock,'' flanked by Ben Foster and Tom Sturridge in Lyle Kessler's 1983 drama about two almost feral brothers holed up alone in a run-down North Philadelphia row house, and the wealthy kidnapped criminal who becomes a surrogate father to them. A week into rehearsals the production made headlines when Shia LaBeouf abruptly exited n after backstage disagreements; Mr. Foster stepped in to take his place. Daniel Sullivan directs. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Pippin' (previews start on Saturday; opens on April 25) The 1970s redux on Broadway didn't fare well last season, with neither ''Godspell'' nor ''Jesus Christ Superstar'' sticking around long. But Diane Paulus managed to make the countercultural relic ''Hair'' feel vital and relevant in her thrilling 2009 revival. So she might also be the right person to give a fresh take on Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 show about a restless royal heir seeking his ''Corner of the Sky.'' First seen at the American Repertory Theater, where Ms. Paulus is artistic director, the show features Matthew James Thomas, Patina Miller, Terrence Mann, Charlotte d'Amboise and Andrea Martin, with circus and acrobatic elements created by Gypsy Snider of the Montreal-based troupe 7 Fingers. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Testament of Mary' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April 22) Before it became a searing novella, the Irish author Colm Toibin's eloquently humanized first-person account of the post-Crucifixion years of Mary, mother of Jesus, was an acclaimed monologue performed at the Dublin Theater Festival in 2011 by Marie Mullan under the direction of Garry Hynes. This new production, starring Fiona Shaw, is the latest chapter in the long and fruitful creative partnership between Ms. Shaw and the director Deborah Warner, whose work together was last seen on Broadway in a blazing ''Medea'' in 2002. Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' A four-alarm urgency infuses Scarlett Johansson's performance in Rob Ashford's oxygen-starved revival of Tennessee Williams's 1955 drama of sex and lies. If Ms. Johansson is oddly un-feline as Maggie the Cat, she sure has presence. The rest of the cast, including Benjamin Walker and Ciaran Hinds, gets lost in the heavy atmospherics (2:40). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Newsies' This Disney musical -- adapted from the 1992 movie and inspired by the newsboy strike of 1899 -- markets Urchin Appeal with extra! extra! enthusiasm. Jeff Calhoun directs a cast of comely, if overgrown, ragamuffins. The largely interchangeable songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Brantley)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick and Kelli O'Hara, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in Nicholas Martin's production, smoothly transferred from a sellout run Off Broadway (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'All in the Timing' One of the zestier plates of theatrical tapas to be had. This 20th-anniversary production of David Ives's popular anthology of mini-plays, directed by John Rando, leaves you feeling lighter, but not emptier. There's nutrition in these sketches about (gulp!) relativity and randomness, and surprising substance in their silliness. Carson Elrod leads a bouncy cast (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Belleville' Amy Herzog's sensationally good new drama is both a nail-biting psychological thriller and a keenly observed -- and ultimately heart-rending -- portrait of a young couple (the terrific Maria Dizzia and Greg Keller) whose marriage suddenly begins to unravel under the pressure of secrets and lies. Anne Kauffman directs the flawless production (1:35). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Isherwood)
'Bunnicula: A Rabbit Tale of Musical Mystery' Charles Busch livens up this fun adaptation of the kid's novel about a family enduring some turmoil after adopting a rabbit that may be a vampire (1:05). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dr2theatre.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Detroit '67' Dominique Morisseau's overly tidy drama uses the riots that plagued the title city as a background to formulaic stories about a brother and a sister at odds and an interracial romance (1:15). National Black Theater, 2031 Fifth Avenue, near 125th Street, East Harlem, (866) 811-4111, classicaltheatreofharlem.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Donnybrook!' This revival of Johnny Burke and Robert E. McEnroe's 1961 musical (itself an adaptation of ''The Quiet Man,'' the 1952 St. Patrick's Day perennial about an Irish-American boxer's fraught courtship of a redheaded spitfire), jettisons the most dated, disturbing and indulgent elements of the movie but retains the essential sentimental blarney. With a fine cast and crisp direction by Charlotte Moore, the result is as fresh as a morning after rain in the west of Ireland (2:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'The Flick' The new play from the terrifically gifted Annie Baker (''Circle Mirror Transformation,'' ''The Aliens'') is a typically keenly observed and compassionate portrait of the emotional and ethical complications that arise in the relationships among three employees of a dumpy rural movie theater. At Shakespearean length (three hours!), the play demands patience, but also rewards it (3:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Forever Dusty' If Kristen Holly Smith turned up to your costume party in Dusty Springfield drag and started singing, there would be no mistaking the woman she was channeling. But doing a passable impersonation is a far cry from capturing the essence of one of the most distinctive female vocalists of all time, as this amateurish inflated cabaret act demonstrates. Written in by-the-numbers basics by Ms. Smith and Jonathan Vankin, and directed with minimal finesse by Randal Myler, this misconceived bio-musical is a soulless tribute to the platinum-haired, panda-eyed queen of white soul. She deserves better (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foreverdusty.net. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)
'Hamlet' The Bedlam company presents a four-person, stripped-down production that is modest and sensitive to the sound of the poetry of the play (3:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Zinoman)
'Hit the Wall' Ike Holter's impassioned evocation of the Stonewall Riots, and Eric Hoff's vigorous production, are strongest when stylized interpretation eclipses conventional realism. A hit in Chicago last year, the drama is being staged just a stone's throw from Christopher Park in Greenwich Village where the events depicted occurred, amplifying the historical echoes of the sweltering June night in 1969 when drag queens, gay men and lesbians pushed back during a routine police raid. While the freewheeling play traffics in stereotype and anachronism with mixed results, it adopts a vernacular that speaks sincerely and directly to today's gay youth, inviting them to honor the earlier generation that broke the chains of marginalization and invisibility (1:35). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Honky' This daffy take on race by Greg Kalleres may have been more cutting edge about 25 years ago, but it's still hilarious. A teenager is killed for his trendy sneakers, and everybody associated with the shoe -- the designer, the guy who created the advertising campaign, the president of the shoe company -- has to come to grips with issues of attitude and perception. Oh, and along the way someone invents a pill to cure racism (1:45). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, urbanstages.org. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Jackie' The message from the American public has remained pretty consistent: Presidents' wives should be seen but not heard. Or is that women in general? The Austrian playwright Elfriede Jelinek gives one (darkly cynical) answer in this dense, slippery monologue, in which Tina Benko embodies Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Presented by the Women's Project (1:20). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'Katie Roche' The Mint Theater Company's commitment to re-examine the works of the Irish playwright Teresa Deevy reaches its third year, and third play, with this production, in which Wrenn Schmidt stars as a young woman who marries a staid older man and then must come to grips with that decision. It's not as compelling as the two earlier productions, though it's an interesting addition to the overall picture (1:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Genzlinger)
'Last Man Club' Randy Sharp's atmospheric, expertly structured one-act drama does almost too good a job of making the audience feel as if it is living through the Dust Bowl of the 1930s. This production, about people who stay behind in their devastated hometowns and the men who try to fool them, can be hypnotic; that's a compliment and a problem (1:25). Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, off Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 352-2101, axiscompany.org. (Gates)
'The Little Flower' Not to be confused with the musical ''Fiorello!,'' Anthony Lo Bianco's solo show about New York's beloved 20th-century mayor Fiorello La Guardia is more pep rally, history lesson and city lovefest than traditional storytelling. But it does those jobs well, especially when Mr. Lo Bianco delivers political speeches directly to the audience (1:30). Dicapo Opera Theater, St. Jean Baptiste Church, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Gates)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (La Rocco)
'The Lying Lesson' Craig Lucas's tepid two-hander features Carol Kane portraying Bette Davis in her later years. Having moved to small-town Maine, she strikes up a relationship with a local (Mickey Sumner) whose motives are a bit mysterious (1:45). Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Madrid' Edie Falco, whose face usually seems like an open window, pulls down the blinds in Liz Flahive's muted, murky play about a runaway kindergarten teacher, directed by Leigh Silverman. Ms. Flahive has a poet's hand for echoing imagery. But this production often feels paralyzed in its contemplation of the mystery of everyday lives (2:10). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Brantley)
'The Mound Builders' The director Jo Bonney's revival of Lanford Wilson's 1975 work, about the relationships among an archaeologist and his family and associates, mostly lacks the emotionally nuanced performances the play's delicate textures require (2:15). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Much Ado About Nothing' The splendid Jonathan Cake is an exuberant, witty Benedick opposite Maggie Siff's Beatrice in an otherwise mostly zest-free production of Shakespeare's romantic comedy, directed by Arin Arbus for Theater for a New Audience (2:40). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Neva' Chekhov's widow, Olga Knipper (the terrific Bianca Amato), and two other Russian actors (the also-excellent Quincy Tyler Bernstine and Luke Robertson) gather in a rehearsal room in 1905 in St. Petersburg. The winds of revolution are howling at the windows, but in Guillermo Calderón's turgid psychodrama, most of the endless talk illustrates only these actors' self-involvement (1:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
'The Old Boy' In A.R. Gurney's 1991 drama, a politician exuding charm returns to his snobbish boarding school to give a speech and makes a moral choice that defies tradition. In the Keen Company revival, the punch lines don't always land as hard as they should, but the script is rich and literate, and Chris Dwan is convincing and sympathetic in the role of a troubled teenager (1:20). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Old Hats' Bill Irwin and David Shiner, the peerless neo-vaudevillian jesters behind the long-running hit ''Fool Moon,'' have concocted a winning new compendium of nifty clown routines. The pixie-ish singer-songwriter Nellie McKay makes for a perfect musical foil in this ebullient, thoroughly charming variety show (1:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Passion' Staged by John Doyle, a minimalist with a scalpel, this hypnotic revival of Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine's musical study of love beyond reason comes across as a pulsing collective fever dream, while reminding us that startling clarity can come from such dreams. Ryan Silverman, Judy Kuhn and Melissa Errico expertly embody the show's compelling central triangle (1:45). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Brantley)
'Really Really' The young playwright Paul Downs Colaizzo shows an assured appreciation of the addictive power of ambiguity in this merciless state-of-a-generation play, set on a college campus. Yet because of its blanket bleakness, nothing in it surprises us. Zosia Mamet is excellent as an upwardly mobile college student who becomes both victim and predator. The talented David Cromer directs (2:10). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Revisionist' As a Polish Holocaust survivor in Jesse Eisenberg's somewhat implausible new play, Vanessa Redgrave reminds us why she's considered the greatest actress of her generation. She inhabits her character with precision and authority, making us feel like humble, privileged trespassers in an exotic world. Mr. Eisenberg almost holds his own portraying her graceless young American cousin (1:45). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Saint Joan' With just four actors playing 24 characters, Bedlam's wonderfully high-spirited production of Shaw's 1920 semi-tragedy leads its audience into, out of and all over the space. Eric Taylor's inventive direction and the four superb performers make it well worth the schlep. Running in repertory with the Bedlam company's ''Hamlet'' (3:00). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, fourth floor, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Grode)
'Shaheed: The Dream and Death of Benazir Bhutto' Anna Khaja plays eight characters in her one-woman show that mixes fact and fiction to understand the complicated, contradictory person that was Benazir Bhutto. Ms. Khaja, who wrote the script, is a better actress than writer, and some of the characters seem thin. Still the show reminds us of why Bhutto was so interesting (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Talley's Folly' Danny Burstein and Sarah Paulson give performances of translucent feeling in this loving Roundabout Theater Company revival of Lanford Wilson's 1979 romantic pas de deux about two misfits in 1944 Missouri trying to find a mutual rhythm. Directed with sympathy and insight by Michael Wilson (1:35). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Women of Will' Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Clown Bar' This goofy but very funny homage to noir films and pulp novels finds a cop up against a crew of demented clowns (1:10). Parkside Lounge, 317 East Houston Street, East Village, (800) 838-3006, www.pipelinetheatre.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Wednesdays only. Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Catherine Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mama, I Want to Sing' New blood energizes the long-running gospel musical. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Dance and the Railroad' (closes on Sunday) The Signature Theater Company's David Henry Hwang season continues with this modest, somewhat soporific two-hander about two Chinese immigrants (Yuekun Wu and Ruy Iskandar) laboring on the transcontinental railroad in 1867 (1:10). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'The Detour' (closes on Sunday) You might think Owen Davis's drama about a Long Island farm wife hiding money and plans for her daughter's art career from her hopelessly sexist husband was written in the 1970s, but it first opened on Broadway in 1921. This low-budget revival is mannered but intriguing, at least up until the ''I Love Lucy'' ending. Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302, metropolitanplayhouse.org. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'The Drawer Boy' (closes on Saturday) The Oberon Theater Ensemble does a fine job with this lovely play by Michael Healey about two farmers, one with a brain injury, and the writer who comes to observe them for the purposes of writing a play about farming. The humor is left wry and dry, and when it comes time to reveal the story of how the two men arrived at their present state, heartstrings are tugged expertly (2:00). June Havoc Theater in the Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, Manhattan, (866) 811-4111, www.oberontheatre.org. (Genzlinger)
'The North Pool' (closes on Sunday) Rajiv Joseph's disappointing play is a contrived two-hander set during detention, as a vice principal of a large public high school (Stephen Barker Turner) and a student (the excellent Babak Tafti) spar over their involvement in, among other things, the suicide of a promising young flute player (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Norwegians' (closes on Sunday) There is every chance that C. Denby Swanson wrote this odd, dark, profane comedy -- about really sweet Scandinavian hit men in Minnesota and the young women who hire them -- after falling asleep during ''Fargo.'' But this low-budget guilty pleasure delivers solid laughs while making fun (in mostly nice ways) of various ethnicities and American states. And one actress demonstrates how good Mary-Louise Parker might be as a stand-up comic (1:30). Drilling Company Theater, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Gates)
'Pocahontas, and/or America' (closes on Saturday) Poor old Pocahontas, always being trotted out by some artist or another for nefarious purposes. Here it's the Little Lord theater company, making merry, in terribly tedious fashion, with various takes on this Native American, and the country that came after her (1:50). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wyckoff Avenues, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (La Rocco)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); WRITERS (75%); RESORTS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



732 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Spending Cuts Put Damper On Trips by Lawmakers

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Official travel abroad by members of Congress -- trips known universally on Capitol Hill by the shorthand term ''codels'' -- has always been something of a sensitive topic.
Critics deride the Congressional delegations as high-flying, taxpayer-financed junkets, while members and their staffs vigorously defend them as critical fact-finding and research trips.
Now, the long jet-setting tradition of Congressional recesses just got grounded by the same $85 billion across-the-board budget cuts, which have also canceled White House tours and lengthened airport lines and have some federal employees receiving furlough notices. 
Normally, Congress's coming two-week break would be the perfect time for dozens of lawmakers to scurry overseas. But in this time of heightened fiscal discipline, an increasing number of members are eschewing such trips and returning home, to spend the time in their districts with their families and constituents.
Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio encouraged the end -- or at least the suspension -- of codels last month. In advance of the automatic budget cuts, he issued a decree to House Republicans in their weekly meeting, telling his members that the House would no longer authorize military aircraft for official overseas travel. His rule included even trips to Afghanistan and Iraq, limiting House lawmakers' ability to visit war-torn regions in the Middle East and beyond where a military aircraft is often the only way to get around.
''This decision is a prudent and responsible course of action, reflecting the current strain on military readiness and operations,'' read an e-mail to House offices after the announcement.
Of course, the speaker's new rule does not mean that no official travel will take place.
Though the House will not authorize military aircraft travel, the Department of Defense still can. This means, for instance, that if a group of lawmakers flew commercially to, say, Kuwait, they could then board a Defense Department-approved military aircraft to Afghanistan or Iraq.
This month, Representative Howard P. (Buck) McKeon, Republican of California and the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, and two other members visited Afghanistan. They flew commercially for the first leg of the trip, and used military support to travel the rest of the way.
''You want to minimize the operational impact on Department of Defense, but we still have an oversight obligation and that obligation extends beyond information you can get just from a Congressional hearing or a telephone call,'' said Claude Chafin, communications director for the Armed Services Committee. ''There are some conversations with Afghan leaders and troops fighting on the ground that you just can't substitute for. We have an obligation to carry out that oversight, but we're going to do it in a way that's as low impact as possible.''
Mr. Chafin would not discuss any codels during the coming recess, citing security concerns.
And, lawmakers can still take any trip they want, as long as they fly commercially.
''I've been clear there's no military aircraft that I'll approve during the sequester,'' Mr. Boehner said in an interview in his office. ''And if some members believe that they need to travel, do it commercially. They have to make those decisions.''
Mr. Boehner sent a bipartisan House delegation to Rome for the investiture of Pope Francis. But at the bottom of the news release was a disclaimer: ''The House delegation will fly to Rome on commercial air flights, in compliance with the speaker's directive that member use of military air transportation be suspended with sequestration in effect.'' (Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the leading House Democrat, similarly flew to Rome on a delegation led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.)
On the Senate side, codels have also become more politically charged -- though that has not stopped some senators from heading abroad during the break. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said he would be visiting Israel, Turkey and Jordan during the two-week recess. (Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, is going on the same trip.) He said the recent budget cuts had not caused him to rethink his plans.
''Where I'm going, we need to go,'' Mr. Graham said. ''The Middle East is going in the wrong direction quickly.''
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, who often takes such trips with Mr. Graham, joked, ''I think he's going with a separate group for a change.'' But Mr. McCain said that he was also considering heading off to a trouble spot abroad, though he could not discuss the details because of security concerns.
''I can't say where, but it's not a pleasurous place,'' he said.
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, is taking what his office described as an ''economic mission'' to Japan, China and South Korea. He will be flying commercially.
At least one planned Senate codel has been canceled -- or at least postponed, though no one with knowledge of the trip would discuss it. ''In this age of austerity, no one even wants to be outed as the senator who was going to go on a codel, even though it's now been canceled,'' a Democratic Senate aide explained.
When asked about the mysterious canceled trip, Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, offered up a hint: ''Several of us were going to go to Bali and take our spouses,'' he said referring to exactly the sort of trip that could cause an uproar.
As a reporter began to scribble down the details, he laughed. ''I'm just kidding,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ARMED FORCES (87%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: BUCK MCKEON (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



733 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Special-Education Programs Steel Themselves as Cuts Loom

BYLINE: By ELENA SCHNEIDER. 
eschneider@texastribune.org

 BODY:
Aurora Ford, a fifth-grader with Down syndrome, needs regular speech classes and occupational therapy, services that are guaranteed under the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act. But looming federal financing cuts could affect Aurora and her peers, because they might mean bigger classes and fewer teachers next year. 
''If you take away staff, it's a given that the quality of education will decrease,'' said Stacy Ford, Aurora's mother and a special-education advocate in Leander. ''It doesn't take a Ph.D. to figure that out.''
In 2011, Texas schools were hit with a $5.4 billion cut in state financing. And now that the state is also facing automatic federal spending cuts that went into effect on March 1, administrators say they are running out of cost-saving options to maintain services that receive federal money.
The Texas Education Agency estimates that for next fiscal year, up to $51 million in federal money could be slashed from special-education programs and $65.4 million from Title I, a federal initiative that aids low-income students, along with cuts to teacher professional development, career-technical programs and English language acquisition classes.
The Department of Education is expected to announce final numbers by April. In the meantime, the T.E.A. is predicting 5 to 10 percent reductions in federal financing, which makes up 11.9 percent of its overall budget. The T.E.A. will allocate financing for each district by July 1, said DeEtta Culbertson, a spokeswoman for the agency.
State legislators are not expected to come to the financial rescue. Representative Brandon Creighton, Republican of Conroe, chairman of the House Select Committee on Federalism and Fiscal Responsibility, said lawmakers would need to see ''if there's truly an impact we need to address,'' before they increase financing for any programs affected by the budget cuts known as sequestration.
As federal and state financing sources disappear, the burden falls on local budgets.
''We will have to turn internally, as a district, to find a way to pick up the slack,'' said Carl A. Montoya, the superintendent of Brownsville Independent School District, where 95 percent of students are considered economically disadvantaged.
For most districts, internal options include reducing staff and increasing class size. Lynse Pawelek, the special education director for Pleasanton I.S.D., just south of San Antonio, said she might be forced to lay off five paraprofessional special-education aides who serve the district's nearly 300 special-needs students. She also expects class sizes to grow. Dr. Montoya said he would probably downsize staff and programming. Robbie Stinnett, special education director for Duncanville I.S.D., which has more than 1,300 students with disabilities, said she would probably eliminate jobs and decrease budgets for professional development and assistive technology.
''We are all in a dilemma of how to meet the needs of students that we're required to meet, but not given the funding to do,'' Ms. Stinnett said.
Although low-income and special-education students will be directly affected by the cuts first, general education would also feel the pinch.
''It's the trickle-down effect,'' Ms. Pawelek said. If school districts shoulder more special-education and low-income student costs, then ''their general education students will suffer along the way, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Aurora Ford, a fifth-grader with Down syndrome, on her way to school on Tuesday. Looming federal financing cuts could affect Aurora and her peers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER SELVIDGE FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL EDUCATION (91%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (78%); SPEECH THERAPY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); DOWN SYNDROME (78%); US INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT (78%); PARAEDUCATORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (73%); PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



734 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Universe as an Infant: Fatter Than Expected And Kind of Lumpy

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
Astronomers released the latest and most exquisite baby picture yet of the universe on Thursday, one that showed it to be 80 million to 100 million years older and a little fatter than previously thought, with more matter in it and perhaps ever so slightly lopsided.
Recorded by the European Space Agency's Planck satellite, the image is a heat map of the cosmos as it appeared only 370,000 years after the Big Bang, showing space speckled with faint spots from which galaxies would grow over billions of years.
The map, the Planck team said in news conferences and in 29 papers posted online Thursday, is in stunning agreement with the general view of the universe that has emerged over the past 20 years, of a cosmos dominated by mysterious dark energy that seems to be pushing space apart and the almost-as-mysterious dark matter that is pulling galaxies together. It also shows a universe that seems to have endured an explosive burp known as inflation, which was the dynamite in the Big Bang.
In a statement issued by the European Space Agency, Jean-Jacques Dordain, its director general, said, ''The extraordinary quality of Planck's portrait of the infant universe allows us to peel back its layers to the very foundations, revealing that our blueprint of the cosmos is far from complete.'' 
Within the standard cosmological framework, however, the new satellite data underscored the existence of puzzling anomalies that may yet lead theorists back to the drawing board. The universe appears to be slightly lumpier, with bigger and more hot and cold spots in the northern half of the sky as seen from Earth than toward the south, for example. And there is a large, unexplained cool spot in the northern hemisphere.
Those anomalies had shown up on previous maps by NASA's Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, or WMAP, satellite, but some had argued that they were because of a bad analysis or contamination from the Milky Way.
Now cosmologists will have to take them more seriously, said Max Tegmark, an expert on the early universe at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who was not part of the Planck team. He described the new results as ''very exciting.'' It could be, he said, that ''the universe is trying to tell us something.''
George Efstathiou, of Cambridge University, one of the leaders of the Planck project, said in the European Space Agency news release: ''Our ultimate goal would be to construct a new model that predicts the anomalies and links them together. But these are early days; so far, we don't know whether this is possible and what type of new physics might be needed. And that's exciting.''
The Planck satellite was launched in 2009 and has been scanning the sky ever since, recording the faint variations in a haze of radio microwaves that fill the sky.
Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation used in the kitchen for heating leftovers; that they are important for cosmology was discovered by accident back in 1965 by a pair of Bell Labs radio astronomers, Arno Penzias and Robert W. Wilson, who later won the Nobel Prize in Physics. Using balloons, a U-2 spy plane and a series of satellites like the WMAP, astronomers have been teasing out the detailed features of this radiation.
The microwaves detected by the Planck date from 370,000 years after the Big Bang, which is as far back as optical or radio telescopes will ever be able to see, cosmologists say. But the patterns within them date from less than a trillionth of a second after the Big Bang, when the universe is said to have undergone a violent burst of expansion known as inflation that set cosmic history on the course it has followed ever since. Those patterns are Planck's prize.
Analyzing the relative sizes and frequencies of spots and ripples over the years has allowed astronomers to describe the birth of the universe to a precision that would make the philosophers weep. The new data have allowed astronomers to tweak their model a bit. It now seems the universe is 13.8 billion years old, instead of 13.7 billion, and consists by mass of 4.9 percent ordinary matter like atoms, 27 percent dark matter and 68 percent dark energy.
Marc Kamionkowski, an astrophysicist at Johns Hopkins University who commented on the work at a news teleconference sponsored by NASA, called Planck ''cosmology's human genome project,'' saying, ''It shows the seeds from which the current universe grew.''
David N. Spergel, a Princeton University cosmologist, described the new results as ''beautiful.''
''The standard cosmological model looks even stronger today than yesterday,'' he said. ''The universe remains simple and strange.''
The biggest surprise here, astronomers said, is that the universe is expanding slightly more slowly than previous measurements had indicated. The Hubble constant, which characterizes the expansion rate, is 67 kilometers per second per megaparsec -- in the units astronomers use -- according to Planck. Recent ground-based measurements combined with the WMAP data gave a value of 69, offering enough of a discrepancy to make cosmologists rerun their computer simulations of cosmic history.
The fact that astronomers once would go to war over a factor of two in measurements of this parameter shows how cosmology has progressed over the past 20 years. Pressed for a possible explanation for the discrepancy, Martin White, a Planck team member from the University of California, Berkeley, said it represents a mismatch between measurements made of the beginning of time and those made more recently, and that it could mean that dark energy, which is speeding up the expansion of the universe, is more complicated than cosmologists thought. He termed the possibility ''pretty radical,'' adding, ''That would be pretty exciting.''
The data also offered striking support for the notion of inflation, which has been the backbone of Big Bang theorizing for 30 years. Under the influence of a mysterious force field during the first trillionth of a fraction of a second, what would become the observable universe ballooned by 100 trillion trillion times in size from a subatomic pinprick to a grapefruit in less than a violent eye-blink, so the story first enunciated by Alan Guth of M.I.T. goes.
Submicroscopic quantum fluctuations in this force field are what would produce the hot spots in the cosmic microwaves, which in turn would grow into galaxies. According to Planck's measurements, those fluctuations so far fit the predictions of the simplest model of inflation, invented by Andrei Linde of Stanford, to a T.
Dr. Tegmark of M.I.T. said, ''We're homing in on the simplest model.''
Cosmologists still do not know what might have caused inflation, but the recent discovery of the Higgs boson has provided evidence that the kinds of fields that can provoke such behavior really exist.
Dr. Tegmark and others said that another clue to the nature of inflation could come from the anomalies in the microwave data -- the lopsided bumpiness, for example -- that tend to happen on the largest scales in the universe. By the logic of quantum cosmology, they were the first patterns to be laid down on the emerging cosmos; that is to say, when inflation was just starting.
He compared it to walking in on a fight. If the fight has been going on for a while, he said, it is impossible to tell who started it or who was hurt first. But if you come in only a few seconds after it started, you have a better chance of figuring out who did what to whom.
''It may be,'' he said, ''we're coming in early to the cosmic brawl.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Efstathiou, of Cambridge University, was a leader of the European Space Agency's Planck project. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS MORI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASTRONOMY & SPACE (91%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (89%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); ASTROPHYSICS (79%); PHYSICS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN SPACE AGENCY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILKY WAY GALAXY (79%); EARTH (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



735 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: Renewed Tax Credit Buoys Wind-Power Projects

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
After a deep slump at the end of last year, the wind industry is picking up.
First Wind, a Boston-based developer and operator that was sitting on a pile of stalled projects with the potential to power roughly 300,000 homes, now expects to go forward with many of them.
Broadwind, an energy manufacturing and services company, based in Cicero, Ill., recently announced winning two new orders for wind towers worth $62 million. At least nine utilities, including Xcel Energy and a subsidiary of American Electric Power, are exploring new wind projects. 
''Deals are getting signed; people are ramping up their production facilities again,'' said Peter C. Duprey, chief executive of Broadwind. ''The whole industry went through either a shutdown or idling at the end of last year and are now quickly trying to gear back up again.''
The rush to development is in large part because of Congress. Lawmakers had allowed a popular incentive, known as the production tax credit, to lapse at the end of last year, but then renewed it in January. They also changed the requirement so that projects only have to be under construction by the end of the year to qualify, rather than fully operational, as had traditionally been the case.
''We are now back on the treadmill trying to get as much of our portfolio qualified for the P.T.C. by the end of this year,'' said Paul J. Gaynor, First Wind's chief executive, referring to the credit. Without the renewal, he said, ''I think we would have had zero megawatts to develop.''
Projects take such a long time to finish, industry executives and analysts say, that development and manufacturing will continue to pick up through this year and next, potentially spilling over into 2015.
Indeed, the flurry of activity may represent more of a shuffle than an expansion. Developers are mainly dusting off projects they already had in the works, rather than seeking out new business, while others are trying to sell off unfinished projects, experts and executives said.
''Some people are taking the view that it's a good time to buy early prospects and other people are saying it's a good time to get rid of early prospects,'' said Michael Skelly, president of Clean Line Energy Partners, which is developing high-voltage transmission lines for wind farms. ''There's some churn going on there, but it's not really new projects being undertaken.''
Beyond the next year or so, the industry's future remains in doubt, given the uncertainty over whether Congress will again extend the credit as part of an 11th-hour budget agreement or take up its purpose and ultimate fate as part of a broader corporate tax overhaul.
''Are you going to have corporate tax reform or not?'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who wrote the original legislation creating the credit. ''I don't know.''
Over the last decade, with a few exceptions, the wind industry has steadily grown, attracting on average nearly $18 billion a year in private investment since 2008, according to the industry's main trade group, American Wind Energy Association.
But its fortunes have been shackled to the credit as Congress has periodically allowed it to lapse and then renewed it. Private investment was sharply up last year, jumping to $25.2 billion from $14.3 billion in 2011, driven in part by the rush to complete projects in time to qualify for the incentive.
The tax credit is 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour for electricity produced over the farm's first 10 years of operation, a subsidy that can bring the price of wind power close to that of conventional fuels.
The trade group has determined that the industry could survive if the credit were phased out by the end of 2018. The White House, however, has pushed to make it permanent and refundable. But antipathy among many Republicans toward subsidies for alternative energy could squelch efforts to extend it past the end of this year, creating more uncertainty in the industry.
''If you're a wind developer looking to invest long term in wind, you have to think about whether the P.T.C. is going to be there next year, and that's up in the air right now,'' said Robert N. Freedman, a lawyer who helps lead the sustainable development group at Shearman & Sterling.
There are other pressures, too, he said. Demand for new power plants is relatively low because of a sluggish economy; natural gas is cheaper and, especially in the West, many utilities are choosing to meet state renewable energy mandates with solar.
At the renewable energy development arm of Duke Energy, for instance, the volume of wind development is expected to be significantly lower than last year, even with the credit in place. By contrast, the solar business, though smaller, could triple.
''P.T.C. gets a lot of headlines because of the political dynamic,'' said Greg Wolf, president of Duke Energy Renewables, ''but those other market and operational dynamics are going to be ultimately equally as important.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A wind turbine near Sheffield, Vt. Demand for new projects is hampered by the sluggish economy and low prices for natural gas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOBY TALBOT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Wind Powering Up: Though wind power has grown steadily, each time the production tax credit for the industry was allowed to expire by Congress, installation slowed. (Source: American Wind Energy Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND POWER PLANTS (92%); WIND ENERGY (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (87%); TAX INCENTIVES (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); CORPORATE TAX (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ELECTRIC POWER CO INC (58%); XCEL ENERGY INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN WIND ENERGY ASSOCIATION (59%)

TICKER: AEP (NYSE) (58%); XEL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



736 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 6462 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'The Assembled Parties' (in previews; opens on April 17) Nobody could accuse Richard Greenberg of slacking this season. Within weeks of unveiling his take on ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' and a month ahead of the ''Far From Heaven'' musical adaptation for which he wrote the book, Mr. Greenberg introduces this new work. Directed by Lynne Meadow for Manhattan Theater Club, it focuses on a well-heeled Upper West Side Jewish family whose stability is threatened at the dawn of the 21st century. The cast includes Jessica Hecht, Judith Light and Jeremy Shamos. Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Big Knife' (previews start on Friday; opens on April 16) Following last year's sterling revival of ''Golden Boy,'' the Clifford Odets appreciation season continues with this production from Roundabout. The caustic 1949 work drew on Odets's firsthand experience as a Hollywood screenwriter to observe the machinations behind the studio management of a star embroiled in a scandal that threatens to end his career. Doug Hughes directs an ensemble headed by Bobby Cannavale and Marin Ireland, along with the veterans Richard Kind and Chip Zien. American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Rooney)
'Brits Off Broadway' (opens on Wednesday) The eclectic annual showcase of British theater imports is now in its ninth year. Among the lineup's possible highlights is ''Good With People,'' a two-hander by the Scottish playwright David Harrower (''Blackbird''), set in a once-thriving holiday resort that is now home to Britain's nuclear defense program. Mike Bartlett trades sexuality for office politics in ''Bull,'' his companion piece to ''The Cockfight Play.'' And Neil Bartlett teams with the mezzo-soprano Jessica Walker on ''The Girl I Left Behind Me,'' a tribute to cross-dressing women on British and American revue stages. There's also a forgotten J.B. Priestley play, ''Cornelius,'' plucked from obscurity after 75 years. 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Rooney)
'Buyer & Cellar' (in previews; opens on April 3) Michael Urie, known for his bitchy fashion flunky on ''Ugly Betty,'' and on the stage, for his gay activism pioneer in ''The Temperamentals,'' stars in Jonathan Tolins's comedy about a struggling Los Angeles actor who takes a job toiling in the Malibu basement of a revered superstar. His understanding of the price of fame changes when he finally gets to meet his idol. Stephen Brackett directs. Rattlestick Playwrights Theater, 224 Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Rooney)
'The Call' (previews start on Friday; opens on April 14) No, it's not a stage version of the Halle Berry girl-in-peril movie. Tanya Barfield's politically charged drama concerns a couple whose choice to adopt a child from Africa prompts them to question their identity as white Americans. Leigh Silverman directs the co-production between Playwrights Horizons and Primary Stages, with a strong cast that includes Kelly AuCoin, Kerry Butler, Eisa Davis, Crystal A. Dickinson and Russell G. Jones. Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Rooney)
'A Dream Play' (previews start on Friday; opens on Wednesday) Sung Rno and Andrew Pang wrote this new adaptation of August Strindberg's influential 1901 drama for the National Asian American Theater Company. A precursor to European Expressionism and Surrealism onstage, the play has worked its spell on a number of theater luminaries over the past century, among them Ingmar Bergman, Antonin Artaud, Robert Lepage, Robert Wilson and Caryl Churchill. Staged here by Mr. Pang, it centers on the daughter of a god sent down to Earth by her father to observe the ''Creator's children,'' finding much to be pitied in human suffering. Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org (Rooney)
'Kinky Boots' (in previews; opens on April 4) Cyndi Lauper has been a fixture in the New York theater community for so long that it's hard to believe that she's never written for Broadway. (She has performed there, in the 2006 revival of ''The Threepenny Opera.'') Here she collaborates with two men who have more than two dozen Broadway credits between them, the book writer Harvey Fierstein and the director-choreographer Jerry Mitchell. Together they take on the feel-good 2005 film about a drag queen (played onstage by Billy Porter) who takes on the task of saving a failing shoe factory. Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Eric Grode)
'The Last Five Years' (in previews; opens on April 2) This two-character 2002 musical by Jason Robert Brown has become a juggernaut in terms of regional productions (more than 500) and audition songs (seemingly limitless). It also went a long way toward cementing the careers of its original New York stars, Norbert Leo Butz and Sherie Rene Scott, so theater buffs may be curious to see what the new cast -- Adam Kantor (''Rent'') and Betsy Wolfe (''The Mystery of Edwin Drood'') -- will do with this show, which uses a curious narrative structure to chart a disintegrating marriage. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
'Lucky Guy' (in previews; opens on April 1) In New York City in the mid-1980s, the sight of Mike McAlary, the squinty-eyed, thick-mustached Irishman, looking out from a newsstand was a sign that he had unearthed yet another scandalous tidbit from the police beat. Nora Ephron, who worked at The New York Post before McAlary did, was there to see it all; so was George C. Wolfe, then just beginning his ascent in the New York theater world. Ephron finished this sprawling play about the muckraking columnist before she died last year, leaving it in the hands of Mr. Wolfe, who directs, and a cast led by Tom Hanks (making his Broadway debut). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Matilda the Musical' (in previews; opens on April 11) This musical take on Roald Dahl's beloved 1988 children's novel features four young actresses each having a go at Matilda, the telekinetic little girl with beastly parents and an even worse headmistress, Miss Trunchbull (Bertie Carvel, in his Broadway debut, repeating his best actor Olivier Award-winning London performance). A draw for the parents may be Tim Minchin, an Australian musician and comedian who wrote the music and lyrics. Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Motown: the Musical' (in previews; opens on April 14) He has been a boxer, a record store owner and perhaps the greatest hit-making producer of all time, so why shouldn't Berry Gordy add Broadway book writer to his résumé? He has a decent safety net in the form of the peerless Motown song catalog, which includes several tunes he had a part in writing. Expect to see and hear Smokey, Diana, Marvin and many, many, many others, all directed by Charles Randolph-Wright and supported by a relatively luxurious 18-piece orchestra. Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Grode)
'The Nance' (in previews; opens on April 15) A stock figure of traditional burlesque, the nance was a stereotypical sissy usually played by a heterosexual performer. That's not the case in Douglas Carter Beane's new play, which stars Nathan Lane in the title role of a man juggling his career as a beloved stage headliner with a messy secret life in the gay underground of 1930s New York. Jack O'Brien directs an ensemble that reunites Mr. Lane with his ''Producers'' cast mate Cady Huffman. Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Orphans' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April 18) Alec Baldwin returns to Broadway post-''30 Rock,'' flanked by Ben Foster and Tom Sturridge in Lyle Kessler's 1983 drama about two almost feral brothers holed up alone in a run-down North Philadelphia row house, and the wealthy kidnapped criminal who becomes a surrogate father to them. A week into rehearsals the production made headlines when Shia LaBeouf abruptly exited n after backstage disagreements; Mr. Foster stepped in to take his place. Daniel Sullivan directs. Gerald Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Pippin' (previews start on Saturday; opens on April 25) The 1970s redux on Broadway didn't fare well last season, with neither ''Godspell'' nor ''Jesus Christ Superstar'' sticking around long. But Diane Paulus managed to make the countercultural relic ''Hair'' feel vital and relevant in her thrilling 2009 revival. So she might also be the right person to give a fresh take on Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 show about a restless royal heir seeking his ''Corner of the Sky.'' First seen at the American Repertory Theater, where Ms. Paulus is artistic director, the show features Matthew James Thomas, Patina Miller, Terrence Mann, Charlotte d'Amboise and Andrea Martin, with circus and acrobatic elements created by Gypsy Snider of the Montreal-based troupe 7 Fingers. Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'The Testament of Mary' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on April 22) Before it became a searing novella, the Irish author Colm Toibin's eloquently humanized first-person account of the post-Crucifixion years of Mary, mother of Jesus, was an acclaimed monologue performed at the Dublin Theater Festival in 2011 by Marie Mullan under the direction of Garry Hynes. This new production, starring Fiona Shaw, is the latest chapter in the long and fruitful creative partnership between Ms. Shaw and the director Deborah Warner, whose work together was last seen on Broadway in a blazing ''Medea'' in 2002. Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
Broadway
'Ann' Holland Taylor wrote and stars in this solo show about Ann Richards, the straight-shooting onetime governor of Texas. Ms. Taylor's engaging performance goes beyond impersonation, though the script is neither a dramatically shapely piece of writing nor a deeply probing character study (1:55). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, lct.org. (Charles Isherwood)
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' A four-alarm urgency infuses Scarlett Johansson's performance in Rob Ashford's oxygen-starved revival of Tennessee Williams's 1955 drama of sex and lies. If Ms. Johansson is oddly un-feline as Maggie the Cat, she sure has presence. The rest of the cast, including Benjamin Walker and Ciaran Hinds, gets lost in the heavy atmospherics (2:40). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Newsies' This Disney musical -- adapted from the 1992 movie and inspired by the newsboy strike of 1899 -- markets Urchin Appeal with extra! extra! enthusiasm. Jeff Calhoun directs a cast of comely, if overgrown, ragamuffins. The largely interchangeable songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Brantley)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick and Kelli O'Hara, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in Nicholas Martin's production, smoothly transferred from a sellout run Off Broadway (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'All in the Timing' One of the zestier plates of theatrical tapas to be had. This 20th-anniversary production of David Ives's popular anthology of mini-plays, directed by John Rando, leaves you feeling lighter, but not emptier. There's nutrition in these sketches about (gulp!) relativity and randomness, and surprising substance in their silliness. Carson Elrod leads a bouncy cast (1:45). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200, primarystages.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Belleville' Amy Herzog's sensationally good new drama is both a nail-biting psychological thriller and a keenly observed -- and ultimately heart-rending -- portrait of a young couple (the terrific Maria Dizzia and Greg Keller) whose marriage suddenly begins to unravel under the pressure of secrets and lies. Anne Kauffman directs the flawless production (1:35). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org. (Isherwood)
'Bunnicula: A Rabbit Tale of Musical Mystery' Charles Busch livens up this fun adaptation of the kid's novel about a family enduring some turmoil after adopting a rabbit that may be a vampire (1:05). DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dr2theatre.com. (Jason Zinoman)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Detroit '67' Dominique Morisseau's overly tidy drama uses the riots that plagued the title city as a background to formulaic stories about a brother and a sister at odds and an interracial romance (1:15). National Black Theater, 2031 Fifth Avenue, near 125th Street, East Harlem, (866) 811-4111, classicaltheatreofharlem.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Donnybrook!' This revival of Johnny Burke and Robert E. McEnroe's 1961 musical (itself an adaptation of ''The Quiet Man,'' the 1952 St. Patrick's Day perennial about an Irish-American boxer's fraught courtship of a redheaded spitfire), jettisons the most dated, disturbing and indulgent elements of the movie but retains the essential sentimental blarney. With a fine cast and crisp direction by Charlotte Moore, the result is as fresh as a morning after rain in the west of Ireland (2:15). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'The Flick' The new play from the terrifically gifted Annie Baker (''Circle Mirror Transformation,'' ''The Aliens'') is a typically keenly observed and compassionate portrait of the emotional and ethical complications that arise in the relationships among three employees of a dumpy rural movie theater. At Shakespearean length (three hours!), the play demands patience, but also rewards it (3:00). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Forever Dusty' If Kristen Holly Smith turned up to your costume party in Dusty Springfield drag and started singing, there would be no mistaking the woman she was channeling. But doing a passable impersonation is a far cry from capturing the essence of one of the most distinctive female vocalists of all time, as this amateurish inflated cabaret act demonstrates. Written in by-the-numbers basics by Ms. Smith and Jonathan Vankin, and directed with minimal finesse by Randal Myler, this misconceived bio-musical is a soulless tribute to the platinum-haired, panda-eyed queen of white soul. She deserves better (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foreverdusty.net. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)
'Hamlet' The Bedlam company presents a four-person, stripped-down production that is modest and sensitive to the sound of the poetry of the play (3:30). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Zinoman)
'Hit the Wall' Ike Holter's impassioned evocation of the Stonewall Riots, and Eric Hoff's vigorous production, are strongest when stylized interpretation eclipses conventional realism. A hit in Chicago last year, the drama is being staged just a stone's throw from Christopher Park in Greenwich Village where the events depicted occurred, amplifying the historical echoes of the sweltering June night in 1969 when drag queens, gay men and lesbians pushed back during a routine police raid. While the freewheeling play traffics in stereotype and anachronism with mixed results, it adopts a vernacular that speaks sincerely and directly to today's gay youth, inviting them to honor the earlier generation that broke the chains of marginalization and invisibility (1:35). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Honky' This daffy take on race by Greg Kalleres may have been more cutting edge about 25 years ago, but it's still hilarious. A teenager is killed for his trendy sneakers, and everybody associated with the shoe -- the designer, the guy who created the advertising campaign, the president of the shoe company -- has to come to grips with issues of attitude and perception. Oh, and along the way someone invents a pill to cure racism (1:45). Urban Stages, 259 West 30th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, urbanstages.org. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Jackie' The message from the American public has remained pretty consistent: Presidents' wives should be seen but not heard. Or is that women in general? The Austrian playwright Elfriede Jelinek gives one (darkly cynical) answer in this dense, slippery monologue, in which Tina Benko embodies Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis. Presented by the Women's Project (1:20). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Claudia La Rocco)
'Katie Roche' The Mint Theater Company's commitment to re-examine the works of the Irish playwright Teresa Deevy reaches its third year, and third play, with this production, in which Wrenn Schmidt stars as a young woman who marries a staid older man and then must come to grips with that decision. It's not as compelling as the two earlier productions, though it's an interesting addition to the overall picture (1:30). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Genzlinger)
'Last Man Club' Randy Sharp's atmospheric, expertly structured one-act drama does almost too good a job of making the audience feel as if it is living through the Dust Bowl of the 1930s. This production, about people who stay behind in their devastated hometowns and the men who try to fool them, can be hypnotic; that's a compliment and a problem (1:25). Axis Theater, 1 Sheridan Square, off Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 352-2101, axiscompany.org. (Gates)
'The Little Flower' Not to be confused with the musical ''Fiorello!,'' Anthony Lo Bianco's solo show about New York's beloved 20th-century mayor Fiorello La Guardia is more pep rally, history lesson and city lovefest than traditional storytelling. But it does those jobs well, especially when Mr. Lo Bianco delivers political speeches directly to the audience (1:30). Dicapo Opera Theater, St. Jean Baptiste Church, 184 East 76th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Gates)
'Love in the Time of Cholera' Directed by José Zayas and performed by an efficient four-actor crew, Caridad Svich's adaptation of the Gabriel García Márquez novel is pleasing but lightweight. A production cannot live on romance alone. In Spanish with subtitles (2:00). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 889-2850, repertorio.org. (La Rocco)
'The Lying Lesson' Craig Lucas's tepid two-hander features Carol Kane portraying Bette Davis in her later years. Having moved to small-town Maine, she strikes up a relationship with a local (Mickey Sumner) whose motives are a bit mysterious (1:45). Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'The Madrid' Edie Falco, whose face usually seems like an open window, pulls down the blinds in Liz Flahive's muted, murky play about a runaway kindergarten teacher, directed by Leigh Silverman. Ms. Flahive has a poet's hand for echoing imagery. But this production often feels paralyzed in its contemplation of the mystery of everyday lives (2:10). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Brantley)
'The Mound Builders' The director Jo Bonney's revival of Lanford Wilson's 1975 work, about the relationships among an archaeologist and his family and associates, mostly lacks the emotionally nuanced performances the play's delicate textures require (2:15). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Much Ado About Nothing' The splendid Jonathan Cake is an exuberant, witty Benedick opposite Maggie Siff's Beatrice in an otherwise mostly zest-free production of Shakespeare's romantic comedy, directed by Arin Arbus for Theater for a New Audience (2:40). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Neva' Chekhov's widow, Olga Knipper (the terrific Bianca Amato), and two other Russian actors (the also-excellent Quincy Tyler Bernstine and Luke Robertson) gather in a rehearsal room in 1905 in St. Petersburg. The winds of revolution are howling at the windows, but in Guillermo Calderón's turgid psychodrama, most of the endless talk illustrates only these actors' self-involvement (1:15). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Zinoman)
'The Old Boy' In A.R. Gurney's 1991 drama, a politician exuding charm returns to his snobbish boarding school to give a speech and makes a moral choice that defies tradition. In the Keen Company revival, the punch lines don't always land as hard as they should, but the script is rich and literate, and Chris Dwan is convincing and sympathetic in the role of a troubled teenager (1:20). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'Old Hats' Bill Irwin and David Shiner, the peerless neo-vaudevillian jesters behind the long-running hit ''Fool Moon,'' have concocted a winning new compendium of nifty clown routines. The pixie-ish singer-songwriter Nellie McKay makes for a perfect musical foil in this ebullient, thoroughly charming variety show (1:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Passion' Staged by John Doyle, a minimalist with a scalpel, this hypnotic revival of Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine's musical study of love beyond reason comes across as a pulsing collective fever dream, while reminding us that startling clarity can come from such dreams. Ryan Silverman, Judy Kuhn and Melissa Errico expertly embody the show's compelling central triangle (1:45). Classic Stage Company, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, classicstage.org. (Brantley)
'Really Really' The young playwright Paul Downs Colaizzo shows an assured appreciation of the addictive power of ambiguity in this merciless state-of-a-generation play, set on a college campus. Yet because of its blanket bleakness, nothing in it surprises us. Zosia Mamet is excellent as an upwardly mobile college student who becomes both victim and predator. The talented David Cromer directs (2:10). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Revisionist' As a Polish Holocaust survivor in Jesse Eisenberg's somewhat implausible new play, Vanessa Redgrave reminds us why she's considered the greatest actress of her generation. She inhabits her character with precision and authority, making us feel like humble, privileged trespassers in an exotic world. Mr. Eisenberg almost holds his own portraying her graceless young American cousin (1:45). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Saint Joan' With just four actors playing 24 characters, Bedlam's wonderfully high-spirited production of Shaw's 1920 semi-tragedy leads its audience into, out of and all over the space. Eric Taylor's inventive direction and the four superb performers make it well worth the schlep. Running in repertory with the Bedlam company's ''Hamlet'' (3:00). Access Theater, 380 Broadway, at White Street, fourth floor, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theatrebedlam.org. (Grode)
'Shaheed: The Dream and Death of Benazir Bhutto' Anna Khaja plays eight characters in her one-woman show that mixes fact and fiction to understand the complicated, contradictory person that was Benazir Bhutto. Ms. Khaja, who wrote the script, is a better actress than writer, and some of the characters seem thin. Still the show reminds us of why Bhutto was so interesting (1:30). Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street, East Village, (866) 811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Talley's Folly' Danny Burstein and Sarah Paulson give performances of translucent feeling in this loving Roundabout Theater Company revival of Lanford Wilson's 1979 romantic pas de deux about two misfits in 1944 Missouri trying to find a mutual rhythm. Directed with sympathy and insight by Michael Wilson (1:35). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Women of Will' Mixing casually delivered scholarly exposition with intensely rendered performance, this impassioned exploration of Shakespeare's heroines by Tina Packer traces their evolution through their language. When Ms. Packer and her co-star, Nigel Gore, get down to the business of acting, it's not just poetry in motion, it's thought made flesh. Eric Tucker directs (2:30). Gym at Judson, Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, judson.org/The-Gym. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Clown Bar' This goofy but very funny homage to noir films and pulp novels finds a cop up against a crew of demented clowns (1:10). Parkside Lounge, 317 East Houston Street, East Village, (800) 838-3006, www.pipelinetheatre.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Wednesdays only. Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Catherine Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mama, I Want to Sing' New blood energizes the long-running gospel musical. Saturday only (2:00). The Dempsey Theater, 127 West 127th Street, Harlem, (212) 868-4444, mamafoundation.org.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Silence! The Musical' An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'The Dance and the Railroad' (closes on Sunday) The Signature Theater Company's David Henry Hwang season continues with this modest, somewhat soporific two-hander about two Chinese immigrants (Yuekun Wu and Ruy Iskandar) laboring on the transcontinental railroad in 1867 (1:10). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'The Detour' (closes on Sunday) You might think Owen Davis's drama about a Long Island farm wife hiding money and plans for her daughter's art career from her hopelessly sexist husband was written in the 1970s, but it first opened on Broadway in 1921. This low-budget revival is mannered but intriguing, at least up until the ''I Love Lucy'' ending. Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302, metropolitanplayhouse.org. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'The Drawer Boy' (closes on Saturday) The Oberon Theater Ensemble does a fine job with this lovely play by Michael Healey about two farmers, one with a brain injury, and the writer who comes to observe them for the purposes of writing a play about farming. The humor is left wry and dry, and when it comes time to reveal the story of how the two men arrived at their present state, heartstrings are tugged expertly (2:00). June Havoc Theater in the Abingdon Theater Arts Complex, 312 West 36th Street, Manhattan, (866) 811-4111, www.oberontheatre.org. (Genzlinger)
'The North Pool' (closes on Sunday) Rajiv Joseph's disappointing play is a contrived two-hander set during detention, as a vice principal of a large public high school (Stephen Barker Turner) and a student (the excellent Babak Tafti) spar over their involvement in, among other things, the suicide of a promising young flute player (1:30). Vineyard Theater, 108 East 15th Street, (212) 353-0303, vineyardtheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'The Norwegians' (closes on Sunday) There is every chance that C. Denby Swanson wrote this odd, dark, profane comedy -- about really sweet Scandinavian hit men in Minnesota and the young women who hire them -- after falling asleep during ''Fargo.'' But this low-budget guilty pleasure delivers solid laughs while making fun (in mostly nice ways) of various ethnicities and American states. And one actress demonstrates how good Mary-Louise Parker might be as a stand-up comic (1:30). Drilling Company Theater, 236 West 78th Street, Manhattan, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Gates)
'Pocahontas, and/or America' (closes on Saturday) Poor old Pocahontas, always being trotted out by some artist or another for nefarious purposes. Here it's the Little Lord theater company, making merry, in terribly tedious fashion, with various takes on this Native American, and the country that came after her (1:50). Bushwick Starr, 207 Starr Street, between Irving and Wyckoff Avenues, Brooklyn, (800) 836-3006, thebushwickstarr.org. (La Rocco)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); MUSICAL THEATER (79%); WRITERS (75%); RESORTS (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (66%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); SCOTLAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



737 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Maurice Barbash, 88, Dies; Saved Fire Island's Terrain

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

 BODY:
Maurice Barbash, a homebuilder and environmental activist who was instrumental in blocking two giant projects that threatened to radically alter Long Island's environment -- a $6 billion nuclear power plant near completion on the North Shore, and a four-lane highway that Robert Moses proposed building along the spine of Fire Island -- died on March 13 in Bay Shore, N.Y. He was 88.
His death, several weeks after undergoing heart surgery, was confirmed by his daughter Susan Barbash. 
When he took on Mr. Moses and later the Long Island Lighting Company over its nuclear plant in Shoreham, Mr. Barbash had already established an unusual reputation among developers as the builder who loved trees. Beginning in the 1950s, he often clustered houses in a development to maximize green space -- a concept decades ahead of its time -- and to maintain the character of the landscape.
Probably the fullest expression of that idea was Dunewood, a development of 100 identical cottages-in-the-woods that his company, Barbash Associates of Babylon, shoehorned into a leafy section of Fire Island. Mr. Barbash himself owned a Dunewood house.
Mr. Moses, the powerful master planner, had long talked of building a highway on Fire Island, the slender, 32-mile-long barrier beach on Long Island's South Shore. In 1962, having transformed much of metropolitan New York with bridges, tunnels, parks and parkways, he revived the notion as president of the Long Island State Park Commission.
He envisioned a highway running about five miles along the center of the island, between two existing bridges to Long Island, that would stimulate its economy, offer motorists a scenic drive and help protect its beaches from further erosion. A storm that year had washed away huge scoops of the beach and taken many houses with it.
Summer residents recoiled at the thought of a highway in their paradise, which in places is little more than a sandbar only several hundred feet wide. But public officials and the local newspapers largely endorsed the plan as an economic boon.
Mr. Barbash told interviewers that he could not have beaten Mr. Moses head-to-head. Mr. Moses had bulldozed neighborhoods and dispatched almost every opponent. Instead, Mr. Barbash and a group of Fire Island residents, including Irving Like, a lawyer who was also his brother-in-law, seized on a little-noticed proposal in a federal publication recommending that Fire Island's seashore be considered for designation as a national park.
The group, the Citizens Committee for a Fire Island National Seashore, outflanked Moses in a two-year grass-roots lobbying campaign. They spoke at Kiwanis Clubs, mounted petition drives and gained support from Stewart L. Udall, the interior secretary. Eventually they turned local opinion, and even the opinion of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, Moses' boss, in favor of establishing the national park. It was dedicated on Sept. 11, 1964.
''Murray's idea was that if you wanted to win people over to your side, you had to be for something, not just against something,'' Mr. Like said in an interview.
Mr. Barbash applied the same principle when he joined efforts in the 1970s to stop the Long Island Lighting Company from completing the nuclear power plant at Shoreham. Citizens to Replace Lilco, the group he formed, brought together many core members of the Fire Island campaign, including Mr. Like. The group proposed an end to construction and a public takeover of Lilco. The company went ahead with its plans despite widespread opposition from Long Island residents.
This was a much longer fight than the one for Fire Island. By the late 1980s, the plant was being shuttered and a state takeover of Lilco had been negotiated, a deal Mr. Barbash disowned as overly generous to stockholders and burdensome to rate payers. (The utility is now the Long Island Power Authority.) Still, he was credited for promoting the takeover idea and showing a new generation of activists how to battle giants.
Maurice Barbash, who was known as Murray, was born on May 10, 1924, in the Bronx, the only child of Shep and Sadie Barbash. His father, a butcher, died two weeks after Murray's bar mitzvah. Afterward, Mr. Barbash and his mother spent a lot of time in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, where they had relatives, and where family members believe he acquired his love of nature.
Mr. Barbash enlisted in the Army during World War II before finishing his studies at City College, earning a bachelor of science degree in 1946. His first jobs were in advertising, and many of his clients were homebuilders. He went on to build about 700 homes throughout Long Island.
In addition to his daughter Susan, he is survived by his wife, Lillian; another daughter, Cathy Barbash; a son, Shepard; and six grandchildren.
Mr. Barbash and his wife, who were married in 1947, shared a love of classical music. In 1979, they were among the founding organizers of the Long Island Philharmonic. For their 40th wedding anniversary, they commissioned a cello concerto for a friend, having known him since the 1970s, when he played in the student orchestra at Harvard with their daughter Cathy. The friend was the cellist Yo-Yo Ma; the concerto, ''Music for Cello and Orchestra,'' was written by the Pulitzer Prize-winning American composer Leon Kirchner. Mr. Ma performed the concerto's premiere in 1992 with the Philadelphia Orchestra.
''We're not do-gooders,'' Mr. Barbash said in 1998 in an interview with The New York Times. ''We've just done what was interesting to us, and if it contributed to the happiness of people in the area, fine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maurice Barbash with his wife, Lillian, in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VIC DELUCIA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BEACHES (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); EROSION (77%); STATE PARKS (72%); PETITIONS (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (56%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%)

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



738 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1713 words

HEADLINE: Answers to Readers' Questions About Paying for College

BYLINE: LAURA PERNA


HIGHLIGHT: Laura Perna, a researcher in college finance and affordability, answers select readers&#8217; questions about paying for college. 

 BODY:
The Choice has invited Laura Perna, an author, professor at the University of Pennsylvania and researcher in college finance and affordability, to answer your questions about paying for college in the blog's Guidance Office, a forum for college applicants and their families seeking expert advice.
We hope the moderated Q. and A. session, which began on Monday, will help you and other readers of this blog have a better understanding of college costs and financial aid.
We have included answers that would be most relevant to prospective international students. Please visit The Choice for the complete series.
The questions we've posed are based on readers' submissions. Some answers have been edited, including for length and style. - Tanya Abrams 
Financial Aid for International Students
 Q. 
I'm an international student and I'm interested in applying for financial aid at an American college. Can you please give details on the way you determine whether or not to give financial aid to international students? (I am specifically aiming at the Ivy League here.)
- Curious Junior
 A. 
As Mark Kantrowitz indicated in Part 3 of his responses to questions about the Fafsa, some colleges award institutionally funded grants to international students.
Each college creates its own policies and practices for awarding its institutionally funded aid. EduPass lists colleges that award financial aid to international undergraduate students.
Federal financial aid is generally available only to American citizens, American nationals and permanent residents of the United States. The U.S. Department of Education identifies a small number of exceptions.
The Impact of Financial Need on the Admissions Process
 Q. 
Does the pursuit of financial aid reduce the chances of admission versus a full-paying student? Most likely we will be pursuing a private school and, as you know, it is extremely expensive.
- Jeffrey Wolf
 A. 
The most important consideration in the college admissions process is a student's academic record. Some colleges do not consider a student's financial need in the admissions process, but others do.
Colleges that use need-blind admissions policies typically communicate this practice on their Web sites. At need-aware colleges, self-paying students who meet the college's academic requirements may have an edge in the admissions process.
Avoiding Student Loans
 Q. 
My son will be a senior next year. I believe he will qualify for financial aid, but I'm wondering if there is a way to avoid having to take out student loans. I will not be able to take out loans on his behalf and I don't want him to have to start his post-college years saddled with debt. I have heard that some schools are removing student loans from their financial aid packages. Is this a growing trend? Is it possible to get financial aid without loans?
- Elizabeth
 A. 
About 50 colleges have adopted no-loan policies over the past decade. (Some of these colleges amended their programs in the wake of the Great Recession.)
Colleges with a no-loan policy generally meet 100 percent of undergraduates' financial needs from sources other than loans. These colleges also tend to have relatively low admissions rates.
At most colleges, loans are a typical part of the financial aid package. The Institute for College Access and Success calculated that two-thirds of students who graduated from four-year public and private colleges in 2011 used student loans. The average amount of student loan debt for those who borrowed was $26,600.
Availability of Merit Aid
 Q. 
Do all schools (public and private) offer merit aid, as well as need-based aid? I am told that public institutions do not offer merit aid and that not all privates do. I have looked on some school's sites, and when addressed, some say "no merit aid," but then refer to school grants (which do not have to be repaid). What is the best way to determine each school's policy on merit aid before applying?
- Sherry Meryl
 A. 
Individual colleges - both public and private - determine their own policies for awarding institutionally funded grants and scholarships. Simply noting whether a college is public or private reveals little about whether the college awards aid based on criteria other than financial need.
Not all colleges offer merit-based aid. Individual colleges also vary dramatically in the resources that they allocate to institutionally funded grants and scholarships. The best source of information is the Web site of a college's financial aid office. Many colleges and universities provide information about the types of aid they offer to students (including no-loan policies) and the criteria they use for awarding this aid.
Appealing a Financial Aid Award
 Q. 
My daughter will be attending college next year. Her older brother left school because of poor grades. We had taken out a parent loan for him so we cannot afford to do anything for our daughter. We never could save much for either child's college fund as we have always just scraped by. Can we call the financial aid office at the school she would like to attend and request that they review her aid request in light of this? There is nowhere on the form to include information like this.
- Mary
 A. 
You should certainly contact the financial aid office if your ability to pay college costs changes because of your personal or financial circumstances. Some colleges provide information on appealing a financial aid award on the financial aid office's Web site. You should also contact the financial aid office if you are having difficulty paying college costs even with your financial aid award.
After leaving college, you should contact the loan servicer if you encounter challenges repaying a student loan.
Applying Early Decision
 Q. 
If you would like to apply early decision to a particular school but you won't be able to attend unless its financial aid package meets your needs, how can you avoid the problem of getting admitted but not getting enough aid to be able to go?
- Steven Koller
 A. 
When you apply for admission through a college's early decision program, you are promising to enroll if admitted. Because of this binding commitment, you should only use the early decision option if you are certain that this college is your first choice and if you can commit to attending the college regardless of the financial aid award.
As Greg W. Roberts, the dean of admissions at the University of Virginia, discussed in part 2 of his responses to questions about early admissions, early applicants who receive insufficient aid should contact the college's financial aid office. There is no guarantee, however, that the financial aid package will change.
The inability to compare financial aid awards from different colleges is one of the criticisms of early decision programs. When financial aid is a critical part of the college decision-making process, early action programs may be a better alternative.
Like early decision, early action requires students to submit their applications relatively early in their senior year but, unlike early decision, students who are admitted via early action may wait to compare financial aid awards from different colleges and decide not to enroll.
Early decision programs typically permit students to apply for early decision at only one institution, whereas some early action programs allow students to submit more than one early action application. Not all colleges offer early admission. Colleges provide information about the availability of these options on their undergraduate admissions Web sites.
How Graduation Rates Affect College Costs
 Q. 
I want to suggest something to consider for those looking at large public institutions: The four-year graduation rate matters, a lot. Most of my daughters' friends at four-year public schools here in California will not be out in four years because they can't get into the classes they need. The budget situation has been dire here. So the private colleges may end up being the better deal, between better aid, and better four-year graduation rates.
- Mother of 3
 A. 
Among the many strengths of the American higher education system is its size and diversity. According to the U.S. Department of Education's Digest of Education Statistics 2011, about 21 million students were enrolled in nearly 4,600 degree-granting colleges and universities nationwide in fall 2010. These 4,600 institutions include public, private nonprofit, and private for-profit institutions.
With the benefits of size and diversity, however, also come the challenges of complexity. Colleges vary both across and within these three broad categories in many ways, including their net price and graduation rate. The report indicates that six-year bachelor's degree completion rates are higher, on average, at private nonprofit colleges (65 percent) than at public colleges (56 percent) and private for-profit colleges (28 percent).
Graduation rates also increase with the selectivity of the college. Of the four-year colleges that accepted fewer than 25 percent of applicants in 2004, an average of 87 percent of those students completed a bachelor's degree in six years. (The average was 82 percent at public four-year institutions and 91 percent at private nonprofit institutions.)
On average, published tuition and fees (the sticker price) are lower at public four-year colleges (for both in-state and out-of-state students) than at private nonprofit four-year colleges. But tuition and fees at public colleges vary by state, with lower published tuition and fees at public four-year colleges in Wyoming, Utah and New Mexico and higher tuition and fees in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Vermont and New Hampshire. The U.S. Department of Education's College Navigator is one source for finding the average net price and the graduation rate at particular colleges of interest.
The Choice is no longer taking questions. However, if you would like to further discuss paying for college, please feel free to share your thoughts in the comments box below.

        
Seeking Your Questions on Paying for College
        
For International Students, College Checklists for March
        
For International Students, College Checklists for February
        
A Survivor of College Rejection Refuses to Lose Her Resolve
        
China and India Top List of International Students Attending U.S. Colleges

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (94%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TRENDS (50%) Admissions Standards; Colleges and Universities; Education (K-12); Education Department (US); Financial Aid (Education); Foreign Students (in US); India; Ivy League; Pennsylvania; Student Loans; University of Pennsylvania; The Choice on India Ink

ORGANIZATION: Education Department (US); Ivy League; University of Pennsylvania

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (59%) India; Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2013



739 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2330 words

HEADLINE: Global Study of Monsoons Finds Ocean Variations Have Driven Recent Shifts

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The recent behavior of monsoons in the Northern Hemisphere clashes what was predicted under a push from global warming. 

 BODY:
[March 24, 11:10 p.m.: Apologies for the blog silence and slow comment moderation. I'm camped on a beach with Pace University students making a film about efforts to balance fishing with marine conservation. Back online Tuesday.]
The seasonal rains called monsoons matter enormously to human affairs, from the Indian subcontinent to the American Southwest. Getting a better understanding of the forces that will shape these features of the climate system in coming decades is a big research priority, but also a very tough challenge given the many factors in play.
In a study published in this week's Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, researchers analyzing monsoon patterns around the Northern Hemisphere since the 1970s conclude that there has been a substantial intensification of summer monsoon rainfall and circulation. The researchers say natural variations in the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans appear to be the main force behind the shift. Climate models have tended to project a different result.
I asked a variety of scientists working on these questions to evaluate the paper and related materials in an e-mail discussion including one of the authors, Peter Webster, a Georgia Institute of Technology climate scientist. 
I distributed the abstract and a news release from the University of Hawaii, where the lead author, Bin Wang, is chairman of the department of meteorology. 
Here's an excerpt from the release:
Current theory predicts that the Northern Hemisphere summer monsoon circulation should weaken under anthropogenic global warming.
Wang and his colleagues, however, found that over the past 30 years, the summer monsoon circulation, as well as the Hadley and Walker circulations, have all substantially intensified. [Explore this Real Climate post to see how much this finding conflicts with what had been conventional wisdom.]
This intensification has resulted in significantly greater global summer monsoon rainfall in the Northern Hemisphere than predicted from greenhouse-gas-induced warming alone: namely a 9.5% increase, compared to the anthropogenic predicted contribution of 2.6% per degree of global warming.
Most of the recent intensification is attributable to a cooling of the eastern Pacific that began in 1998. This cooling is the result of natural long-term swings in ocean surface temperatures, particularly swings in the Interdecadal Pacific Oscillation or mega-El Niño-Southern Oscillation, which has lately been in a mega-La Niña or cool phase. Another natural climate swing, called the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation, also contributes to the intensification of monsoon rainfall.
Here's a link to the paper and the abstract, followed by the discussion so far: 
"Northern Hemisphere summer monsoon intensi\xAC\x81ed by mega-El Niño/southern oscillation and Atlantic multidecadal oscillation"
Bin Wang, Jian Liu, Hyung-Jin Kim, Peter J. Webster, So-Young Yim, and Baoqiang Xiang
Prediction of monsoon changes in the coming decades is important for infrastructure planning and sustainable economic development. The decadal prediction involves both natural decadal variability and anthropogenic forcing. Hitherto, the causes of the decadal variability of Northern Hemisphere summer monsoon (NHSM) are largely unknown because the monsoons over Asia, West Africa, and North America have been studied primarily on a regional basis, which is unable to identify coherent decadal changes and the overriding controls on planetary scales. Here, we show that, during the recent global warming of about 0.4°C since the late 1970s, a coherent decadal change of precipitation and circulation emerges in the entirety of the NHSM system. Surprisingly, the NHSM as well as the Hadley and Walker circulations have all shown substantial intensi\xAC\x81cation, with a striking increase of NHSM rainfall by 9.5% per degree of global warming. This is unexpected from recent theoretical prediction and model projections of the 21st century. The intensi\xAC\x81cation is primarily attributed to a mega-El Niño/Southern Oscillation (a leading mode of interannual-to-interdecadal variation of global sea surface temperature) and the Atlantic Multidecadal Oscillation, and further in\xAC\x82uenced by hemispherical asymmetric global warming.
These factors driving the present changes of the NHSM system are instrumental for understanding and predicting future decadal changes and determining the proportions of climate change that are attributable to anthropogenic effects and long-term internal variability in the complex climate system.
In my query to climate scientists, I noted that the work appeared to raise significant questions about the limits of climate models and pose a challenge for anyone arguing that recent shifts in monsoons are due to human-driven climate change. Here's the discussion (I cleaned up some e-mail shorthand but the rest is as written; it is technical in spots):
Kevin Trenberth, Distinguished Senior Scientist, National Center for Atmospheric Research:
I do not find this result at all surprising, but some of the material is a bit misleading. I have not read the paper, however there continues to be confusion about changes in monsoons (in this case), or ENSO [the El Niño-Southern Oscillation ], etc. and the effects of those changes in terms of precipitation and other effects. So the terminology makes a difference.
For instance please see Trenberth, K. E., 2011: "Changes in precipitation with climate change." Climate Research, 47, 123-138, doi:10.3354/cr00953
So while the monsoon winds might weaken the precipitation nonetheless increases (more bang for the buck) as a weaker circulation carries more water vapor (and latent energy). ENSO might weaken by some definitions but droughts and floods increase in magnitude. 
So while the monsoon winds might weaken the precipitation nonetheless increases (more bang for the buck) as a weaker circulation carries more water vapor (and latent energy). ENSO might weaken by some definitions but droughts and floods increase in magnitude. The way one frames the questions about the role of climate change matters. Decadal variability has been acknowledged in many other recent publications such as...
Dai, A., 2013: "The influence of the Inter-decadal Pacific Oscillation on U.S. precipitation during 1923-2010." Climate Dynamics, doi:10.1007/s00382-012-1446-5, in press.
...and extensively in climate models in the work of Clara Deser, see the paper in Nature Climate Change recently and articles such as this...
Deser, C., A. S. Phillips, V. Bourdette, and H. Teng, 2012: "Uncertainty in climate change projections: The role of internal variability." Climate Dyn., 38, 527-546, DOI 10.1007/s00382-010-0977-x.
Indeed regionally, interannual and decadal variability is still dominant in the climate record and will be for a long time. The whole idea of regional climate prediction that has come to the fore mainly because of need/demand is not based on sound science owing to fundamental predictability issues. How one does attribution is indeed an issue.
Andrew Turner, a climate scientist at the University of Reading in England (interviewed by Vikas Bajaj for the Green blog last year):
The paper...offers a useful framework for which decadal variations in the global (or northern hemisphere) may be explained via large scale modes of oceanic variability. This potentially could lead to added predictability for a certain proportion of monsoon rainfall variability. 
However, this decadal predictability, "necessary for infrastructure planning, energy policy, business development, and issues related to sustainability" (to quote the PNAS paper) is only useful to end-users (people on the ground) if rainfall in local regions can be better predicted. Basing local planning decisions on hemisphere-scale signals may be misguided, and so probably if any decadal predictions can be made for these hemisphere-scale portions of the monsoon then they need to be supplemented by information from other sources of predictability in order to target the local level. Whether this can be done is another matter.
A certain amount of care is needed in interpreting the results of this paper at a local or even regional monsoon level. For example the increasing trend in the coherent NHSM decadal precipitation shown in the paper (Figure S3B: the spatial pattern and associated principal component time series of the EOF) in fact suggest a weakening over recent decades in much of India and East Asia. This is in stark contrast to the headline result. 
Correspondingly, in those regions I mention (which, by population, represent the most important regions of the global monsoon) much of the increasing precipitation signal is coming from oceanic regions: the eastern Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal, the South and East China Seas and Bay of Bengal. The declining signal over India shown by the GPCP decadal mode is broadly consistent with gauge measurements since the 1950s - that several research groups including my own are trying to understand, perhaps relating to emissions of anthropogenic aerosol - although there are discrepancies between these gauge-based data sets themselves (see our recent review in Nature Climate Change, for example).
We already know that (regional) monsoon variability on the scales for sub-seasonal to interannual are higher than the projected model trends of future mean monsoon rainfall (I've just seen that Kevin has mentioned this also). In some models, the decadal variability for monsoons such as the South Asian monsoon also outweighs the magnitude of the future trends, and in others it does not (the review above is one example showing this). We need to better characterise the decadal variability in the regional monsoons and understand why models show such different behavior.
Reacting to Trenberth, Peter J. Webster, an author of the new paper and climate scientist at Georgia Tech, wrote this, directed to Kevin Trenberth:
Kevin, 
Thanks for your insight. But perhaps you might read the paper first before directing (misdirecting) the attention away from Andy's questions.
To me, the issue is that there is a trend when one considers the global monsoon (and yes, Kevin has written about the global monsoon, too). I think that one of the problems that we have had in monsoon stuff is to consider the monsoons bit by bit. We received reviewer criticism from (I guess) Indian scientists who have spoken of a diminishing monsoon. Yet, India is a small place and their statistics are based on the average annual rainfall over India that doesn't include rainfall from Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh or any countries in East Asia. I think that one has to be careful in drawing global conclusions from local or even regional trends or events (read Sandy!) What this paper does is show that if one carefully considers the larger scale aspects of the monsoon including the oceanic monsoon (see some of the papers by Winston Chao a decade or so ago: thoroughly recommend) then one can start to see trends on a global basis. I think that some times we get caught up in minitua or filligree of climate. So if we make a contribution in this paper it is that viewed holistically that the monsoons are changing and there is a supporting physical basis for this.
Webster added this note, directed to Andrew Turner (and me):
Dear Andys (two),
Andy T's point is well taken but please read the previous note. We start by making the point that there is a trend in the global monsoon as we describe it. Yes, there are changes in the Indian monsoon but note that this a regional perspective. Let us say that we start at looking at the rainfall over India and then extrapolate that to the globe. One gets an opposite global trend that is completely misleading. And one is left trying to understand regional changes without a global context. But if one finds a global monsoon trend and if it turns out to be robust, then one has a handle to help understand local or regional changes. To me, the most important thing is finding large scale physics that help make sense regional changes.
Andy T is correct that the largest changes in the South Asian monsoon rainfall is occurring in the Bay of Bengal which, by the way, is the regional maximum in precipitation and has been for a long time. And, I believe that the Indian Ocean is the ocean of fastest sea-surface temperature increase. So I am hopeful that we can increase interdecadal prediction by understanding the links between global physics and regional response. 
Years ago, Tim Palmer and I had a discussion about the impact of global forcing (e.g., CO2) on circulation patterns. It seemed to us that the impact would be on the "normal modes" of natural variability. That is, one would expect impacts to be on the gross features of the climate system (PDO, AMO, ENSO....). Whereas the magnitude and frequency of these phenomena may be forced to change, it is less likely that we would get new phenomena. We may even have written this up 20 years ago in some obscure journal. But I think that this point is pertinent to our paper.
I'll add more as responses come in. If you have questions, post them and I'll alert the group I've queried. 
It's important not to rely too much on a single study, of course. Here's recent research, also from the University of Hawaii, that has a closer focus on southern Asia and draws different conclusions: "Global Warming Shifts The Monsoon Circulation, Drying South Asia". And looking further in the future, other researchers see greenhouse-driven warming becoming a big and harmful influence in that populous region: "A statistically predictive model for future monsoon failure in India."

        
Draft Federal Report Sees Big U.S. Impacts from Global Warming
        
Two Views of a Storm in Climate Context
        
With a Big If, Science Panel Finds Deep Cuts Possible in Auto Emissions and Oil Use
        
Can Wind, Water and Sunlight Power New York by 2050?
        
Some Resilience Seen in Northern and Tropical Flora in a Warming Climate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (91%); WEATHER (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OCEANS (88%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); BEACHES (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); METEOROLOGY (77%); EL NINO & LA NINA (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); WRITERS (75%); MODELING & SIMULATION (71%); EMISSIONS (69%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%) El Nino Southern Oscillation; Floods; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Monsoons; Nature Climate Change (Journal); Oceans and Seas; Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences; Climate Change; Weather

ORGANIZATION: Nature Climate Change (Journal); Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (72%); HUNAN, CHINA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



740 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: Senate Republicans Push to Slow Financial Rule-Writing

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: In non-binding amendments tucked into the budget plan, Senate Republicans hope to erect potential new obstacles to financial rule-writing at agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 

 BODY:
Congress cut a deal to keep the lights on in Washington. But new measures in the Senate may cut the power of financial regulators to curb Wall Street risk taking. 
Senate Republicans are seeking on Friday to erect potential new obstacles to financial rule-writing at agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The non-binding amendments tucked into the Senate budget plan call on agencies to evaluate more carefully the economic effects of new regulation, cutting off potential shortcuts to so-called cost-benefit studies.
Lawmakers are unlikely to reconcile the Senate budget with the House's plans, making the measures more symbolic than anything else. And it is unclear whether lawmakers will approve the Republican amendments to the Senate's blueprint, the chamber's first budget since 2009. The votes are part of what Washington insiders labeled "vote-o-rama" - dozens of amendments flying through the Senate on Friday.
The Republican author of one financial amendment - Senator Susan Collins of Maine - argues that new financial rules should tread lightly on the fragile economy. A summary of Ms. Collins's amendment to the budget plan calls for "sensible regulatory reform."
But consumer advocates predict a fallout for regulators, who are putting the finishing touches on dozens of new rules to rein in the derivatives market and proprietary trading.
While the new Senate measures would be non-binding, they could serve as a political warning to regulators writing rules under the Dodd-Frank Act. Already, corporate groups have sued to halt several Dodd-Frank rules, complaining that agencies failed to produce a robust cost-benefit analysis.
The latest swipe at the rules, consumer advocates say, could further deter financial reform and impede the authority of agencies that operate independent of the White House.
"The costs of the financial crisis and benefits of avoiding the next one are crystal clear. Having financial regulators jump through more hoops will only further delay the process of making Wall Street accountable to the American public," said Amit Narang, a regulatory policy advocate at Public Citizen, a nonprofit government watchdog group.
The measures echo bills floating around Congress for months. Ms. Collins last year pushed legislation that would impose a 13-point test for rule-making and empower the White House to second-guess new regulations, a far harsher version of the amendments facing a vote on Friday. As regulators pushed back, the bill stalled.
But the Senate amendments could breathe new life into the effort - an alarming prospect to Mr. Narang.
"This will further delay the already glacially slow process of finally making Wall Street accountable to the American public by instituting common-sense Dodd-Frank financial reforms," he said.

        
Nominee for S.E.C. Chief Pledges to Keep Focus on Enforcement
        
What Wall St. Needs to Know About Elizabeth Warren

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); WRITERS (72%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; House of Representatives; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Exchange Commission; Senate; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; House of Representatives; Securities and Exchange Commission; Senate

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



741 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Gibraltar Seeks to Woo Brazilian Hedge Funds and Private Equity

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Government officials from the British territory of Gibraltar visited Rio de Janeiro this week to promote its financial stability as well as its access to the European Union and low taxes. 

 BODY:
RIO DE JANEIRO - Tiny Gibraltar is trying to cash in on Brazil's rising wealth. 
Gibraltar, the British self-governed territory south of Spain, is now working to lure hedge funds, private equity and other investors in Brazil and Latin America to expand to its shores. 
Government officials visited Rio de Janeiro this week to promote Gibraltar's stability, access to the European Union and low taxes. (Interest, dividends and capital gains are not taxed in Gibraltar). The officials said that they had met with approximately 20 firms on the sidelines of a major hedge fund conference here. 
Gilbert Licudi, the territory's minister of financial services, said in an interview with DealBook that Gibraltar was a natural bridge to connect European investors' surging appetite for Latin America. 
Gibraltar does have two funds with Brazilian investors, he said, but the territory is otherwise virtually unknown in Brazil and Latin America. Changing that appears to be a priority of the current government. 
 "It is part of the strategy that this government has to go beyond our traditional jurisdictions like the U.K. and Switzerland and to extend to emerging economies that are doing well like Brazil," Mr. Licudi said.
In its efforts to woo Brazilian investors, Gibraltar faces competition from better known locales like Dublin and Luxembourg as well as the Caribbean. But it sees what it calls a shift toward greater transparency in the financial sector, including efforts in the United States as a factor in its favor. 
"It is clear that there has been this global move toward greater openness and transparency," Mr. Licudi said. He added that, "We pride ourselves now on being one of the jurisdictions that is open and transparent in terms of exchange of information."
Gibraltar is perhaps mostly famous for its rock, but it has also developed a strong financial services sector which today accounts for 20 percent of its gross domestic product. Last year it passed legislation making it easier for funds to get established. Its economy is forecast to grow to £1.65 billion ($1.93 billion) by 2015. 
The territory has an uphill battle in recruiting Brazilian hedge funds. Most are focused on the domestic market here so officials are also targeting international funds that invest heavily in Brazil and Latin America in general. 
Next month, Mr. Licudi will travel to New York to meet with several hedge funds that have already expressed interest.

        
Paul Capital Takes Stake in Brazilian Venture Fund
        
Fortress Profit Doubles on Rising Investment Values

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); LEGISLATION (50%) Brazil; Gibraltar; Hedge Funds; Private Equity; Investment Banking

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (90%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GIBRALTAR (94%); SPAIN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); LUXEMBOURG (72%) Brazil; Gibraltar

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



742 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Late Marriage and Its Consequences

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Winners, losers, and complexities in a world of steadily-later marriage. 

 BODY:
On Wednesday I had the privilege of joining a Brookings Institution event organized around the new report "Knot Yet: The Benefits and Costs of Delayed Marriage," which tries to tease out the social implications of the steadily rising age of first marriage - now at 27 for women and 29 for men, both historic highs. Not surprisingly, a lot of the discussion focused on the impact of this trend on children, because the story of late marriage is entangled with the story of rising out-of-wedlock births, thanks to what the authors call "the great crossover" - the fact that the age of first marriage, which was once about a year earlier than the average age at which the first child was born, now lags the average age of first birth by about a year. Hence the report's most attention-grabbing statistic: That 48 percent of overall first births, and 58 percent of first births to what the report calls "Middle Americans" - women with a high school diploma and maybe some college, but no 4-year degree - now take place outside of marriage, a trend whose negative consequences for children probably don't need to be rehearsed here. 
One of the useful things about the "Knot Yet" report, though, is how much it tries to tell us about the impact of delayed marriage on the lives of adult men and women. The simplest way to interpret this impact is suggested by the write-up the study received from the Atlantic: Great for college-educated women, pretty good for the rest of the female population, bad for men and particularly bad for working class men. Upper-class women reap a large wage premium from delaying marriage - a college-educated woman who marries in her 30s earns over $15,000 more annually than a woman who marries in her early 20s, and when you look at household income, the premium for marrying later rises to more than $20,000. Women without 4-year degrees also enjoy a wage premium when they delay marriage, albeit a smaller one (and a very small one when you look at household income). Men, meanwhile, reap a wage premium from marrying earlier, so late marriage tends to hurt their economic prospects: For men without a 4-year degree, the earlier the marriage, the higher their income, and even college-educated men earn more if they marry in their 20s than in their 30s. (This is not the only way that the burdens of the new marital landscape seem to fall heaviest on males.)
But the "good for women, bad for men" story is complicated by various factors. The cost of children, for one: While well-educated women are generally delaying marriage and childbirth, less-educated American women who wait to marry are much more likely to have a child before wedlock, which raises the chances that they'll end up raising them with an absent or unreliable father - and with it, the chances that their wage premium will be eaten up by the price of parenting. The risk of never marrying, for another: For both the well-educated and the less-educated, marriage delayed can mean marriage forgone, and in terms of household income it makes more of a financial difference whether you marry at all than whether you marry at 27 or 31.
And the economic element is further complicated by the emotional component of the story. There is a health-and-happiness premium for marriage even in the carefree twenties: Married late-twentysomethings, male and female, are less likely to describe themselves as depressed and more likely to describe themselves as satisfied with their lives (and also less likely report recent drunkenness) than both singles and cohabitating couples. More striking still are the numbers for marital happiness over the life cycle: While the risk of divorce does generally go down the older you get married, the "Knot Yet" study cites a survey showing that women who married in their mid-20s (24-26) were much more likely to describe their marriages as "very happy" over the long run than those who married younger and those who married older. (Though of course causation runs in both directions: An emotionally stable person who doesn't drink to excess is more likely to get married in the first place, the person who feels confident enough to tie the knot in their mid-20s may be less likely to look back and feel like they "settled" in order to have children, etc.)
Then, finally, as many material benefits as delaying marriage and childrearing offers to the best-educated Americans, the impact of late parenting on familial health and happiness is more uncertain. This was the subject of Judith Shulevitz's fascinating and disturbing New Republic essay late last year (I wrote about it here), which discussed the stress of fertility treatments, the risk of genetic disorders, the disappointment of having fewer children than you planned ... and then the distinctive burdens that come with becoming parents when your own parents are already entering their own declining years.
So instead of just looking for clear winners and losers from the new late-marrying landscape, it might be more plausible to say that 1) both the costs and the benefits of late marriage cross lines of gender and class, but 2) there do seem to be more sweet spots for the well-educated, and more land mines awaiting the working class. In upper class America, you may not want to marry too early or too late, but once you've graduated college there's a broad zone where financial and emotional interests seem more likely to align than not. The woman who meets her future spouse in college and gets married to him in her mid-20s, the male college graduate who waits till his late 20s to get hitched, and the career-minded woman who ties the knot at 31 are all striking a plausible balance (statistically speaking) between marital fulfillment, marital stability and potential earnings.
In working class America, though, it's much harder to figure out where the sweet spot lies, and how to bring the two sexes' interests into line. The path that offers the clearest financial benefits to men (relatively early marriage) is perilous for women, because the earnings that they lose by marrying early loom large if the marriage then falls apart, which earlier marriages are more likely to do. And wedlock isn't magic: Even if late marriage seems to hurt the economic prospects of working class men, their economic prospects are poor for many other reasons as well, which makes them less marriageable, period. But for women, this dearth of marriageable men then cuts both ways: You don't want to rush into things, but you don't want to let a plausible mate slip away. Hence the appeal of cohabitation, as a trial run - but that trial run makes it easier to semi-accidental, semi-planned out-of-wedlock childrearing, because after all you're almost married, and you're in prime childbearing years, and the rewards for putting career ahead of family aren't nearly as high as they are for the college-educated ...
Obviously people don't generally game out their romantic life in quite this way. But that's part of the point: The longer the road from sexual maturity to marriage, the more complicated the underlying cost-benefit calculus in any given relationship becomes, and the more difficult it becomes for people with fewer resources to figure out the wisest course to take. So while the new romantic landscape doesn't offer automatic benefits to the upper class and automatic costs to everyone else, it does create a situation where the people who need the least help figuring out the wisest life course have multiple clear paths to take, and the people who would most benefit from a simple map to responsible adulthood can easily end up in a maze instead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); WOMEN (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); TRENDS (78%); MEN (77%); WRITERS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



743 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

LENGTH: 1131 words

HEADLINE: Interview With Cuban Blogger Yoani Sánchez

BYLINE: NATALIE KITROEFF


HIGHLIGHT: Yoani S&#225;nchez, a Cuban dissident, is on an 80-day international tour after the Cuban government allowed her to leave the country for the first time in a decade. 

 BODY:
Last Updated, Saturday, 9:10 p.m. Yoani Sánchez stepped out of a coffee shop in the Chelsea neighborhood of New York and quickly pulled a winter hat over her head, covering about three inches of her waist-length brown hair. "This is my disguise," she said, "It's not working." 
Ms. Sánchez, a dissident blogger a colleague recently called "the most famous living Cuban not named Castro," spent the last week in New York and Washington as a part of an 80-day international tour. This is the first time the Cuban government has allowed her to leave the country in nearly a decade, but she says she doesn't feel very far from home. 
"The official who stamped my passport was Cuban," she said, "I said, 'Wow, I am surrounded by Cubans, it's beautiful.' " 
Primera sorpresa, el hombre de la inmigración era de origen cubano, estamos por todos lados! :-)
- Yoani Sánchez (@yoanisanchez)14 Mar 13
For Ms. Sánchez, who has dedicated her career to publicly criticizing the Castro government, this trip is a vindication of her activism. In January, Cuba dropped rules requiring an exit visa in order to travel abroad, although citizens still have to apply for a passport before they are allowed to leave the country. 
Ms. Sánchez says she formally requested a passport 20 times over five years before finally receiving one last month. She posted pictures of each rejection letter on her popular blog and on her Twitter feed, which currently boasts 455,000 followers. 
"The pressure around my trip mounted, and perhaps they said: 'The cost of making her stay here is too high. Let's try letting her leave,' " Ms. Sánchez said. 
Political calculations aside, experts say that the decision to let Ms. Sánchez and other critics travel is a sign of opening on the part of the regime. Ms. Sánchez's trip "is the biggest sign of the change in Cuban policy so far," said Philip Peters, a Cuba expert at the Lexington Institute in Virginia. "She's the person with the most notoriety who has benefited" from the relaxed rules, he added.
The domestic implications of allowing Ms. Sánchez are unclear, considering that many Cubans may not even know who she is. Her critics contend that her work is financed by the United States government and that she appeals only to Cubans in exile. Ms. Sánchez said she had no way of knowing how many of her readers were Cubans living on the island. 
"I live in a country that has a monopoly on information, so when a Cuban is saying critical things about the government," from outside the country, Ms. Sánchez said, "the biggest challenge is how to get that information out to your compatriots on the island."
Most Cubans do not have access to a computer, let alone Internet service at home, and an hour of wireless connection can cost $10 - half of the average monthly salary. A fiber-optic cable has been providing higher-speed Internet access to the island since mid-January, according to the Renesys Corporation, an Internet monitoring company.
The result is that news from Cuba often travels in mysterious ways: sent out with the click of a button, a particularly controversial tidbit will make its way back to the island only via a call weeks later from an opposition activist's family member abroad. 
Blog posts are saved and passed around on thumb drives. Twitter posts are broadcast through text messages. "We find out about something that happened a few meters away after the news has left the country and come back like a boomerang," Ms. Sánchez explained. 
Ms. Sánchez has spent part of her trip nudging policymakers to fundamentally rethink United States policy toward Cuba. This is one place where she diverges from a large part of the Cuban-American community, which has supported Ms. Sánchez since her earliest days as a blogger and continues to regard her as something of a cause célèbre. 
"I am really critical of the embargo, for example, because I think that it hasn't worked," Ms. Sánchez said, explaining that the embargo is a crutch for the Cuban regime during tough times. "If there aren't potatoes, it's because of the embargo. If there aren't tomatoes, it's the embargo. If there aren't freedoms, it's the embargo's fault."
During Ms. Sánchez's brief stop in Washington, she met with two Florida Republicans who are among the staunchest supporters of the embargo in Congress, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Representative Mario Diaz-Balart. Ms. Sánchez apparently did not change their minds. Reuters quoted Representative Ros-Lehtinen as saying after the meeting, "There has not been a change in attitude or position about dissidents who advocate for freedom and democracy in Cuba."
The Cuban-American community argues that easing the embargo is tantamount to propping up the Castro regime, by supplying a much-needed cash flow to the state. "It's true that a part of those resources will end up in the hands of the government," Ms. Sánchez said, "But in these times, I think that assistance like that would be much more beneficial to the Cuban people." 
The Cuban government has found other sources of income, from China and Venezuela in particular, Ms. Sánchez said, and has managed to survive for a half a century without the United States' help.
Ms. Sánchez ended her trip to New York on uncertain terms Thursday afternoon, when her news conference was abruptly moved her from the Dag Hammarskjold Auditorium to a cramped hallway in the United Nations Correspondents Association (U.N.C.A.) offices, at the request of the Cuban mission to the United Nations. 
.@yoanisanchez at the UN correspondents association http://t.co/PLHOymZjEa
- Natalie Kitroeff (@NatalieNYT)21 Mar 13
In a letter to Secretary General Ban-ki Moon, Rodolfo Reyes Rodríguez, Cuba's United Nations ambassador, called the meeting an "anti-Cuba event," that was "a premeditated and blatant political media aggression against a member state."
Mr. Rodríguez also claimed that Ms. Sánchez, "receives instructions from U.S. authorities, as well as material, technological and financial support out of U.S. federal funds," and contended that United Nations sponsorship of her visit would violate the organization's charter. 
At a briefing three hours before the event, Mr. Ban's spokesman tried to create some distance between the United Nations and the U.N.C.A., which he emphasized is an "an independent entity."
Asked about the debacle, Ms. Sánchez responded, "I'm used to speaking in smaller places in Cuba," adding, "if this meeting had been held in an elevator, it would have been freer" than any setting in Cuba. 

        
Q. and A. on Obama's Trip to Israel
        
Israel's Animated Diplomacy
        
How Blogger Helped the Steubenville Rape Case Unfold Online
        
U.N. Report Reframes Debate Over Image of a Father's Agony in Gaza
        
Egyptian Activist Subjected to 'Virginity Test' Dropped From U.S. Honors List for Tweets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (79%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%) Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Cuba; Cuban-Americans; Diaz-Balart, Mario; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; International Relations; Ros-Lehtinen, Ileana; Sanchez, Yoani; United Nations; americas; News; world

ORGANIZATION: United Nations

PERSON: MARIO DIAZ-BALART (60%); ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN (60%) Diaz-Balart, Mario; Ros-Lehtinen, Ileana; Sanchez, Yoani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%) Cuba

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2013



744 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(T Magazine)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Cultural Capital

BYLINE: DEBORAH NEEDLEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Travel is about seeing new things, and also familiar things in a new way. 

 BODY:
This issue starts off in America, or at least an idea of America. Brooklyn, N.Y., has, as we all know, become a bastion of handcrafted, locally sourced, small-scale-production everything, from bikes to beer. The irony is that this passion for authenticity, diversity and a longing for realness have now turned what was once just a borough into a global brand, one that is vigorously being exported around the world: France, Russia, the United Arab Emirates. The local has gone global, or in other words, anti-homogenization is itself now being homogenized: In Paris you find food trucks, in Gorky Park a snack kiosk called Williamsburg, there is a Brooklyn Diner in Dubai, and even the native beer, Brooklyn Brewery, is planning an outpost in Stockholm - how local is that? When a value system based on unscalability starts to scale, it may be time to turn to other locales for a sense of uniqueness and locally grown culture. 
In this issue, we went searching for the world's new cultural capitals, places percolating with individuality. In Seoul, thanks to the newly cash-fueled economy, development is indeed happening superfast, but in a way that doesn't feel like just a mad rush to acquire Western food and fashion, but rather feels truly Korean, completely cool and still underappreciated. In Brussels, we found a powerful new art center. The city's art scene is quite unlike those in Paris, Berlin, London and New York, particularly because it is totally un-sceney. There is a thoughtful, convivial community of artists, enthusiasts and collectors devoted to young, and even somewhat difficult art. And in São Paulo, the new middle class is challenging the city's rigid social stratification and gentrifying and revitalizing formerly blighted districts and turning them into vibrant night life hubs. In Paris, French cuisine is being created from the bottom up rather than the top down. A group of young, multicultural chefs are bringing their diverse perspectives and passion for locally sourced meat and produce to their new restaurants. It is in fact a little like Brooklyn in that sense. But, in the authentic sense, in that it is a global, modern sensibility transforming and reinvigorating the age-old hegemony of la gastronomie française.
Yet for our cover, we returned home to the American desert in Utah to shoot the season's minimalist fashion against the starkly beautiful canyon surrounding the Amangiri resort - juxtaposing the architecture of the clothing and the human form against that of the landscape and the building itself. Travel is about seeing new things, and also familiar things in a new way. We hope this issue provides a similar sense of discovery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BEER & ALE (90%); BREWERIES (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (72%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (65%) t spring travel 2013

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); PARIS, FRANCE (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (55%); LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); UTAH, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (91%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



745 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Another Look at Natural Gas

BYLINE: EDUARDO PORTER


HIGHLIGHT: Whether the natural gas boom could reduce the threat of climate change by fostering a switch from coal depends in part on how much gas leaks out in the course of hydraulic fracturing. 

 BODY:
After my column on Wednesday about how the nation's natural gas boom is helping reduce emissions of heat-trapping carbon, I received a bunch of e-mail arguing that gas obtained by hydraulic fracturing could, on the contrary, worsen climate change. 
The main reason is that fracking wells - where water, chemicals and sand are pumped at high pressure into horizontal shafts to fracture shale rock deep underground - leak.
Cheap natural gas is helping to cut carbon emissions because power companies are using it to replace coal, a much dirtier fuel. But the benefits would be wiped out if a lot of the gas escaped into the atmosphere, because natural gas is mostly methane, which traps much more heat in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide. 
One study last year suggested that replacing coal with gas would reduce greenhouse gas emissions only as long as the leakage of methane into the air from gas production did not exceed 3.6 percent.
The question is, how much do these wells leak? "There is a lot of debate over that," noted Susan Brantley, a geoscientist who heads the Earth and Environmental Systems Institute at Pennsylvania State University. "It is very vitriolic."
According to a draft of the Environmental Protection Agency's, methane emissions from natural gas production declined by 45 percent from 2006 to 2011, to about 48 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent.
Andrew Revkin's Dot Earth blog has covered this controversy exhaustively. And in January, the magazine Nature of the state of knowledge on the subject.
But the best answer is that we don't have a definite answer. Different groups of researchers have come up with vastly different estimates of leakage, from around 2 percent to a whopping rate of 9 percent, found in a recent analysis of a gas field in Utah.
Ms. Brantley suggests that the National Science Foundation underwrite an exhaustive study that could bring some clarity to the issue. But will it have the money? Sequestration just cut some $350 million from its budget for 2013.

        
The Hard Math on Fossil Fuels
        
America's Fossil-Fuels Jobs Boom
        
The True Cost of Carbon
        
Tree-conomics
        
Why Research Alone Won't Fix the Climate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GAS LEAKS (90%); METHANE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%) Carbon Dioxide; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Hydraulic Fracturing; Natural Gas

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



746 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Talks Hit Snag Over Business and Labor Concerns

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Negotiations over a comprehensive immigration bill hit a snag on Friday as business and labor communities failed to reach an agreement on the future flow of legal immigrants into a low-skilled, year-round, temporary worker visa program. 

 BODY:
 9:01 p.m. | Updated On Friday evening, the group of eight senators who are working to produce bipartisan immigration legislation and racing to work out a final dispute between the business and labor communities before Congress left for a two-week recess hit yet another obstacle, when the four Republican senators in the group spurned what a major union described as a another attempt at compromise.
On Thursday, the talks had broken down over the question of how to handle the future flow of legal immigrants into a low-skilled, year-round, temporary worker visa program. The United States Chamber of Commerce wants a visa program to help meet the business community's demand for labor, while the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the nation's largest federation of unions, is concerned with ensuring that American workers are protected and still receive fair wages. 
According to the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the organization offered what it felt was a fair concession: Use the existing language already in laws that govern visas for high-tech, high-skilled worker and low-skilled, nonagricultural worker programs - known as H-1B and H-2B visas - as the language for ensuring worker protections in the new low-skilled visa program that the business and labor groups are trying to create. The current language states that "visas will be issued only when the employment of foreign workers will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of similarly situated workers in the United States."
The Republicans in the group rejected the proposal, sending the entire effort back to the negotiating table, just hours before Congress is set to recess for two weeks.
Senate and House Republicans, meanwhile, have begun both publicly and privately criticizing labor, accusing the unions of trying to kill any hope at a comprehensive immigration bill. 
Though the chamber and the A.F.L.C.I.O., which have been in almost parallel talks to the official negotiations for several months, had tentatively reached an agreement in recent weeks, the chamber recently pushed Republican members of the Senate group to reopen the sensitive topic of a low-skilled worker program.
At issue is the median hourly wage for low-skilled workers who could be brought in during labor shortages. The business community wants to pay the workers one step below the median hourly wage, while the unions want to pay them one step above.
The labor community, which was already frustrated by what it viewed as the chamber's tendency to litigate issues in the press, viewed that twist as akin to an episode of "Peanuts," with Lucy once again moving the football as Charlie Brown tries to kick it.
"Working people don't believe it meets the laugh test for corporate interests to attempt to hijack the moral and political urgency of citizenship for more than 11 million people in order to lower wages for local immigrant and nonimmigrant workers," said Jeff Hauser, a spokesman for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. "This immigration reform effort is about preventing deportations from ripping apart families, not lowering the median wages of low-wage workers struggling to get above the poverty level."
The chamber rejected the characterization.
"It is simply untrue that the business community is seeking to pay foreign workers anything other than what American workers receive," said Randel K. Johnson, the senior vice president of labor, immigration and employee benefits at the chamber. "First, any immigrant worker who would come in under this program has the same protections as American workers and therefore it would violate the Fair Labor Standards Act to pay less than the minimum wage. Second, any temporary worker program would require that an immigrant worker be paid the greater of actual wages being paid to comparable American workers or the prevailing wages."
Last month, the chamber and the A.F.L.-C. I. O reached an agreement, at least in principle, recognizing the need for a visa program that would allow businesses to meet their demand for low-skilled labor, while also protecting American workers.
But the groups remained divided over the maximum number of visas the low-skilled worker program should offer, with the chamber asking for 400,000 visas, and labor preferring a much lower number. Now, the two groups seem have reached a tentative agreement on the size and scope of the program - up to 200,000 new visas annually for the low-skilled temporary worker program.
The chamber blamed the unions for the stalled negotiations.
"The chamber continues to believe that comprehensive immigration reform needs to be achieved for the betterment of our nation," Mr. Johnson, the chamber senior vice president, said. "The unions have jeopardized the entire immigration reform effort, which would provide a pathway to legalization and citizenship for the 10-11 million undocumented workers, because of their refusal to take a responsible stance on a small temporary worker program. These types of programs have always been considered a key part of comprehensive immigration reform. 
"We however remain hopeful that we can resolve this problem and still ultimately pass sound legislation that can be signed into law by the president." 
On Friday, the labor community gained some help from an unlikely Republican ally - Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama. Mr. Sessions, who earlier this week sent a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee urging its members to slow down and thoroughly consider any immigration legislation to come before the committee, took to the Senate floor Friday to express concern that an overly ambitious guest worker program could hurt unemployed Americans.
"We've got an immigration policy that says, we've got jobs, we don't have enough workers - that's what the businesses are telling us," Mr. Sessions said. "We need to be protecting American citizens who are here, out of work, hurting today. Minorities, blacks and whites, all colors and races, that are hurting today with high unemployment, and we seem to be more focused on how we can ram through this Senate a bill that would legalize millions and create an even more robust guest worker program."
He added: "There's not enough jobs now. Give me a break."
On Thursday afternoon, the bipartisan group of eight senators convened a second set of meetings that day. As the four Republicans headed over to the Capitol, they seemed encouraged, if not quite optimistic.
"Wait for the white smoke," joked Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida and a member of the group, invoking the method used to signal agreement on a new pope. 
But by early evening, the negotiations had deteriorated over concerns about the labor and business disagreements surrounding the low-skilled worker program. The group took a short break, with plans to reconvene later that evening. Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona and a member of the group, said that the business-labor portion of the legislation was proving by far the thorniest.
On Friday morning, however, the Senate group headed back to the bargaining table, where aides close to the negotiations said significant progress was made. Now, with just hours until Congress embarks on a two-week break, the bipartisan group is taking its latest compromise, and shopping it back to the business and labor communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%) Congress

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



747 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: March 22, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Name New National Monuments

BYLINE: JOHN M. BRODER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama, who has been criticized for favoring oil and gas development over land conservation in his first term, on Monday will designate five new national monuments, according to officials briefed on the decision. 

 BODY:
President Obama, who was criticized in his first term for favoring oil and gas development over land conservation, on Monday will designate five new national monuments, White House officials said on Friday.
They are the First State National Monument in Delaware and Pennsylvania, the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico, the San Juan Islands National Monument in Washington State, the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Ohio and a monument commemorating Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad in Maryland.
The new protected and historical monuments range in size from the 240,000 acres to be permanently protected in New Mexico and the 1,000 acres in the San Juan Islands to the small sites honoring Tubman and Young, the third African-American to graduate from West Point and the first to attain the rank of colonel. 
The White House and the Interior Department had no official comment on Friday.
This is the first time Mr. Obama has acted aggressively in setting aside public lands and waters for permanent protection; he has focused instead on increasing domestic conventional and renewable energy production. But in his second Inaugural Address and his recent State of the Union speech, he said he would use his executive authority to advance issues, like measures on climate change and the environment, on which Congress has refused to act.
Rick Smith, of the Coalition of National Park Service Retirees, said the president invoked his powers because Congress had failed to enact legislation creating more parks and protected sites. The last Congress was the first in more than 60 years that did not set aside any lands for protection as a national park, monument or wilderness area.
"Americans support and want more parks and monuments because they boost local economies, preserve our heritage and tell our diverse American story," Mr. Smith said in an e-mail. "In particular, all Americans can be proud that with the establishment of First State National Monument in Delaware, all 50 states are now home to an area included in our National Park System."
Mr. Obama is designating the monuments using his power under the Antiquities Act, the 1906 law that allows presidents to set aside important natural, cultural and historical sites for permanent protection. The law was first used by Theodore Roosevelt that year to protect Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming, and it has been invoked numerous times by 16 succeeding presidents.
Among the national parks and monuments designated under the Antiquities Act are Grand Canyon National Park, Statue of Liberty National Monument and Canyons of the Ancients National Monument in Colorado.
The president can designate either a national park or a monument under the Antiquities Act, but Congressional approval is needed to create a national park.
Mr. Obama created four monuments under the act in his first term: the César E. Chávez National Monument in California, the Fort Monroe National Monument in Virginia, the Fort Ord National Monument in California and the Chimney Rock National Monument in the San Juan National Forest in southwestern Colorado.
Last month, Bruce Babbitt, the interior secretary in the Clinton administration, said in a speech that Mr. Obama was falling behind many of his predecessors in setting aside lands for wilderness, while making vast tracts available for drilling.
Mr. Babbitt noted that President George Bush and President Bill Clinton protected about one acre of public land for every acre made available for hydrocarbon development. Under President George W. Bush, Mr. Babbitt said, industry claimed 7.5 acres for every acre set aside for public use, although that figure does not include the 200 million acres of marine reserve near Hawaii that Mr. Bush decided to protect at the end of his presidency, which would have given him a better ratio than any of his predecessors.
"So far under President Obama, industry has been winning the race as it obtains more and more land for oil and gas," Mr. Babbitt said. "Over the past four years, the industry has leased more than 6 million acres, compared with only 2.6 million acres permanently protected."
Although the monuments to be designated are not large enough to significantly change that balance, the move suggests that Mr. Obama may intend to use his authority in his second term to set aside more public lands for conservation, recreation and other noncommercial uses.
An earlier version of this article misstated the number of acres to be set aside in the San Juan Islands. It is 1,000 acres - not 240,000 acres, which is the amount to be permanently protected in New Mexico. 
An article on March 23 about plans by President Obama to designate five new national monuments overstated his powers for designating a national park. He needs Congressional approval for parks; he cannot designate a park merely by issuing a proclamation under the Antiquities Act - as he can do for national monuments.

        
Missed Shots and Quiet Messaging at Easter Egg Roll
        
And Now to Washington, for a Message From . . .
        
The Weekend Word: Checkpoint
        
Obama Order Establishes Bipartisan Voting Commission
        
Obama to Visit Mexico and Costa Rica in May

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (93%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); WILDERNESS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); APPROVALS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%) Babbitt, Bruce; Drilling and Boring; Historic Buildings and Sites; Interior Department; Land Use Policies; National Parks, Monuments and Seashores; Obama, Barack; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Smith, Rick; Wilderness Areas; The 44th President

ORGANIZATION: Interior Department

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%) Babbitt, Bruce; Obama, Barack; Smith, Rick

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2013



748 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Ready to Fight Gay Marriage At Court Door

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As gay couples fight for the right to wed, a little-known but determined force is working to stop them: Brian S. Brown, a 39-year-old father of eight who has raised millions of dollars from religious conservatives -- especially his fellow Roman Catholics -- to become the nation's leading opponent of same-sex marriage.
Mr. Brown, president of the nonprofit National Organization for Marriage here, was instrumental in passing Proposition 8, California's same-sex marriage ban, and is working in a host of states (and recently in France) to defeat gay-friendly candidates and outlaw what he calls ''the redefinition of marriage.''
Now his views are facing the ultimate American test: a hearing before the Supreme Court, which is considering whether to overturn Proposition 8 and perhaps declare it unconstitutional. 
When the justices hear oral arguments in the case on Tuesday, Mr. Brown -- unfazed by polls showing that a majority of Americans disagree with him -- will be on the court's marble steps, leading a march that he hopes will draw thousands who believe, as he does, that gay unions hurt children and threaten religious freedom.
''The notion that somehow we are on a one-way elevator to gay marriage, and that no matter what anyone does that it's going to happen, is false,'' he said in an interview in his sparsely decorated suite on K Street, the capital's lobbying corridor. ''That is the myth of inevitability.''
A California native (he grew up sneaking his surfboard into the pristine stretch of private coastline known as Hollister Ranch near Santa Barbara), Mr. Brown has an open face and an easy laugh that belie his status as a divisive figure in the culture wars. Raised a Quaker, he converted to Catholicism as an adult, with a passion for traditional marriage that he says is rooted in his faith.
As he said in a debate with Dan Savage, a gay columnist, last summer, ''The notion of the uniqueness of men and women is not some side thing in Scripture, it's a key part of our view of humanity: that there are two halves of humanity, male and female, and that we complement each other, and that complementarity bears fruit in children.''
Frank Schubert, the marriage organization's national political director, said, ''He has a convert's zeal.''
Mr. Brown also has a keen sense of strategy and a polished speaking style, traits that unnerve his opponents. When gay rights advocates began calling same-sex marriage a ''civil rights issue,'' Mr. Brown, determined to keep the racial analogy from seeping into popular culture, enlisted black pastors to his cause. In public appearances and on television, he rarely comes across as a renegade, although his tone can grow strident when the audience is familiar.
''When you knock over a core pillar of society like marriage, and then try to redefine biblical views of marriage as bigotry, there will be consequences,'' Mr. Brown warned last August in a fund-raising letter. ''Will one of the consequences be a serious push to normalize pedophilia?''
Conservative Christian groups have thrown their weight behind Mr. Brown's work. The Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal organization, donated about $2 million to help get the National Organization for Marriage started. Mormons contributed heavily to the Proposition 8 campaign, and Bishop Salvatore J. Cordileone, now archbishop of San Francisco, raised money to put the initiative on the ballot.
In an interview, the archbishop said Mr. Brown ''understands that civilization rises and falls on marriage.''
But gay rights advocates see Mr. Brown as the personification of evil, a man who traffics in distortions and smears with a smile.
The Southern Poverty Law Center, which fights intolerance, says the National Organization for Marriage pushes the line of being labeled a hate group because it ''continues to spread lies about gays'' and uses its Web site to link to debunked research. The Human Rights Campaign, an advocacy group, devotes a portion of its Web site, headlined ''NOM Exposed,'' to tracking Mr. Brown and his group.
''Even Governor Wallace in the end came around,'' said Chad Griffin, the Human Rights Campaign president, referring to George Wallace, the segregationist Alabama governor.
Mr. Brown grew up in Whittier, Calif., a town with a Quaker background on the border of Los Angeles and Orange Counties, the son of an accountant and a homemaker who split when he was 13. Maggie Gallagher, his predecessor as the marriage organization's president and the author of a book about the dangers of divorce, said that Mr. Brown ''shares a lot of characteristics of children of divorce'' who as adults make ''a really firm commitment to do something different for their children.''
Mr. Brown played football, ran the Republican Club and was president of the student body at Whittier College, where he threw himself into the history of conservative political thought and read theorists like Edmund Burke and Friedrich Hayek.
''He was somebody I expected great things from,'' said Frederic Bergerson, one of his political science professors.
In the summer of 1996, just after graduation, Mr. Brown arrived in the Michigan village of Mecosta for research on the conservative thinker Russell Kirk. Over fireside talks in a scholarly center housed in Kirk's ancestral home, he immersed himself in Kirk's notion that ''permanent things'' -- family and church -- form the foundation of a healthy society. When a roommate introduced him to Catholic teachings, Mr. Brown plunged in and eventually converted.
''He was looking for history, roots, understanding of what is true culture,'' said Annette Kirk, Russell's widow.
Mr. Brown obtained a second degree at Oxford, returned to the United States to marry a woman he met through his childhood pastor, and later went to the University of California, Los Angeles, to pursue a doctorate. But he gave up academia for activism when offered a job at the Family Institute of Connecticut, where he worked, ultimately unsuccessfully, to stop a 2005 Connecticut law that allowed same-sex couples to enter into civil unions.
There, Mr. Brown's work attracted the attention of Ms. Gallagher, who by then had begun to worry that social conservatives like herself would be outmatched by organized gay rights supporters. She recalls meeting Mr. Brown at a conference.
''He said we needed a Club for Growth for marriage,'' she said, referring to the advocacy group that promotes economic freedom. ''He got the strategic need.''
With the help of Robert P. George, a conservative scholar at Princeton, they founded the National Organization for Marriage in 2007, with Ms. Gallagher as president and Mr. Brown as executive director.
If same-sex marriage becomes a cultural norm, Mr. Brown warns, heterosexual couples will no longer have preference over gay men and lesbians in adoptions, schoolchildren will be taught that same-sex parenting is normal, and those who oppose it will be labeled bigots. Already he worries about his safety and that of his handful of employees, which is why there is a security lock on his office door.
''Children are taught in kindergarten, first grade, that it's the same thing to grow up and marry a boy as to marry a girl,'' he said in a recent interview on C-Span. ''That is a profound consequence.''
Aside from the big victory in California (Mr. Brown moved his family there for a year to help pass Proposition 8), his group helped unseat three Iowa Supreme Court justices who overturned a ban against same-sex marriage there, and helped lead last year's successful effort to ban same-sex marriage in North Carolina. But since 2009, gay men and lesbians have won the right to marry in the District of Columbia and eight states.
Although his track record is now mixed, Mr. Brown is convinced that his big victory will come at the United States Supreme Court.
''No way the court is going to launch another Roe v. Wade,'' he said, referring to the 1973 decision that made abortion legal. But whatever the outcome, he said, there will be more battles, either in the courts or in legislatures, and he will fight them.
''If we were to lose, would it be difficult?'' he asked, before quickly answering. ''Of course it would be difficult. But we're never going away.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: As president of the National Organization for Marriage, Brian S. Brown is a leading opponent of same-sex marriage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); COHABITATION (89%); RELIGION (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (77%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); MARRIAGE LAW (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LOBBYING (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



749 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Shortfall Fears On Retirement

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
Americans remain uneasy about their retirement finances despite a brightening economic outlook -- perhaps because it is dawning on them just how much they have to save, a long-running survey finds. 
The percentage of workers who are confident about having enough money for a ''comfortable'' retirement is unchanged from the record lows of 2011, the survey from the Employee Benefit Research Institute found.
More than half express some level of confidence, but 21 percent are ''not too'' confident and 28 percent are ''not at all'' confident -- the highest level of people not at all confident in the 23 years of the Retirement Confidence Survey. The survey is sponsored by the institute and Mathew Greenwald & Associates, and financed by roughly two dozen businesses and nonprofit groups.
The survey was conducted in January using 20-minute telephone interviews with 1,003 adult workers and 251 retirees. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.
It may be that the reality of difficult savings ahead is dawning.
A ''striking'' number of workers cite large targets when asked how much they will need to save to ensure a financially secure retirement, the survey found. Twenty percent said they needed to save between 20 and 29 percent of their income, and nearly a fourth said they needed to save 30 percent or more. But only about half said they had tried to formally calculate how much they will need to save to retire comfortably; the rest essentially guessed.
''Aggressive as those savings targets appear to be, they may not be based on a careful analysis of their individual circumstances,'' Jack VanDerhei, the institute's research director and co-author of the report, said in a statement.
Worker savings remain ''modest,'' and less than half of workers appear to be taking basic steps needed to prepare for retirement, the survey found. More than half who provided financial information for the survey reported less than $25,000 in total household savings and investments, excluding the value of their home and any pension.
Americans also lack much of a financial cushion. Only about half of workers, and a comparable number of retirees, say they definitely could come up with $2,000 for an unexpected expense in the next month.
Are you able to save both for retirement and unexpected expenses?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); WRITERS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



750 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: China's New Leader, Visiting Russia, Promotes Nations' Economic and Military Ties

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CHRIS BUCKLEY; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Moscow, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong. Andrew Roth contributed reporting from Moscow.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- President Xi Jinping of China arrived here on Friday for his first trip abroad as his country's top leader, using talks with his counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin, to promote deeper cooperation with Russia while the United States has been shoring up ties with its own allies across the Asia-Pacific region.
Despite a history of unease between the two neighbors, which share a 2,600-mile border, China and Russia have found increasing camaraderie in recent years, forming a bulwark against what each country, for its own reasons, often views as the liberal political juggernaut of the West.
And Mr. Xi's visit to the Kremlin, just eight days after his installation as president, sent a clear message that China can turn to its own sources of support, to partially counterbalance the United States when necessary. 
''China will make developing relations with Russia a priority in its foreign policy orientation,'' he said in a written statement issued upon his arrival in Moscow, the Chinese state-owned news agency Xinhua reported.
The Russian government rolled out a red carpet, and state television broadcast the arrival live as Mr. Xi and his wife, Peng Liyuan, were greeted at the airport by an honor guard. They waved and posed briefly for the cameras before being whisked downtown for the start of a busy two-day itinerary that includes meetings with Mr. Putin and other top officials and a visit to a Moscow university.
But the trip was also intended to be more than symbolic, with plans for the signing of a deal with Rosneft, Russia's state-owned oil company, worth up to $30 billion.
In their talks, Mr. Xi told Mr. Putin that the two governments should ''resolutely support each other in efforts to protect national sovereignty, security and development interests,'' Xinhua reported.
For months, China has been engaged in a bitter dispute with Japan over islands in the East China Sea claimed by both countries, and Russia has been among China's strongest diplomatic supporters in the quarrel.
Mr. Xi's reported comments did not mention Syria, Iran, North Korea or other international flash points over which China and Russia have sometimes joined forces in the United Nations Security Council to resist Western pressure for a firmer response. Mr. Xi said they would ''closely coordinate in international regional affairs, protecting the shared strategic security of the two countries,'' Xinhua reported.
Mr. Putin thanked Mr. Xi for choosing Russia for his first trip abroad. Mr. Xi in turn talked about Russia and China as good friends who treat each other ''with open souls.''
Mr. Putin, in an interview with the Itar-Tass news agency timed to coincide with Mr. Xi's arrival, stressed the countries' shared role on the Security Council.
''That is why the strategic partnership between us is of great importance on both a bilateral and global scale,'' said Mr. Putin, adding that Russia-China relations were ''the best in their centuries-long history.''
''They are characterized by a high degree of mutual trust, respect for each other's interests, support in vital issues,'' he said. ''They are a true partnership.''
Since returning to the presidency in May, Mr. Putin has distanced Russia from the West while putting a new focus on Asia, particularly relations with China -- a point he stressed when Russia played host to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Vladivostok in September.
Mr. Putin and Mr. Xi are headed to South Africa for the fifth summit meeting of the so-called Brics bloc of emerging economies -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa.
Mr. Xi, who was appointed China's president last week, concluding a leadership transition begun when he became Communist Party chief in November, sought to distinguish himself from his immediate predecessor, Hu Jintao. But on domestic issues, he has continued Mr. Hu's wooing of Russia for diplomatic support and energy supplies. Russia was also Mr. Hu's his first foreign destination after he was appointed president, in 2003.
''The fact that I will visit Russia, our friendly neighbor, shortly after assuming presidency is a testimony to the great importance China places on its relations with Russia,'' Mr. Xi told a small group of invited journalists at a briefing on Tuesday in Beijing. ''The two sides have had closer strategic coordination on the world stage.''
Recently, both governments expressed misgivings that the United States, in response to threats from North Korea, plans to deploy 14 new missile interceptors in Alaska, where 26 of the existing 30 are already in place,.
A joint declaration issued by Mr. Putin and Mr. Xi after their talks repeated those qualms, without singling out the United States by name. It said that their governments ''oppose a country or a bloc of countries unilaterally and without limit strengthening antimissile capabilities, harming strategic stability and international security.''
The deal said to be in the works with Rosneft would potentially entail a loan of $30 billion from China, to be repaid in oil. A similar loan in 2005 for $6 billion helped finance Rosneft's purchase of a subsidiary of Yukos, once Russia's largest oil company. Western critics said that deal made China complicit in the Russian government's takeover of Yukos.
In 2009, another loan, of $25 billion split between Rosneft and Transneft, the state-controlled pipeline company, is to be repaid with about 2.5 billion barrels of oil through 2030.
The agreements signed by the two presidents included promises of cooperation on numerous fronts, among them travel and tourism, agriculture, education, scientific research and banking. The greatest focus was on energy development, not only the oil deal with Rosneft, which will sharply increase the amount of oil supplied to China by Russia, but also an agreement to move forward with a deal on natural gas, something the two countries have been struggling to negotiate for years.
Despite the increasing ties on energy and other issues, and the recent displays of good will, experts say the relationship is still burdened by Russian wariness and Chinese frustrations.
Some Russians worry that China's growing economic and military strength could eventually displace their country's influence, especially in the sparsely settled regions of the Russian Far East.
China has long sought to draw Russia's Gazprom into agreeing to supply natural gas along a proposed pipeline from east Siberia.
''Pipeline oil and gas cooperation is a good thing that benefits both sides,'' the Chinese vice foreign minister, Cheng Guoping, told reporters in Beijing this week. ''It suits both sides' energy security needs and national interests.''
But longstanding disagreements over pricing have frustrated the proposed gas deal, and Mr. Putin's spokesman said on Thursday that an agreement was unlikely during Mr. Xi's visit.
For the Chinese leader, the visit appears to be as much about consolidating his stature at home and abroad as about bilateral ties. The domestic fame of Mr. Xi's wife, a professional singer, once overshadowed his own, and popular Chinese newspapers and Web sites have dwelled as much on her planned activities as on his.
Like Mr. Hu, Mr. Xi describes himself as an admirer of Russian culture. During his news briefing this week, he reeled off the names of Russian authors whose works he said he had read as a youth, including Pushkin, Tolstoy and Chekhov, and he praised Mr. Putin, whom he has met before.
''We found a lot in common during our talks,'' Mr. Xi said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China was greeted by a Russian honor guard on Friday as he arrived at an airport near Moscow. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER NEMENOV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (54%)

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (54%); ROSN (LSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (54%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) EAST CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (77%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



751 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1040 words

HEADLINE: 'Tonight Show' To New York? Local Comics Applaud

BYLINE: By JASON ZINOMAN

 BODY:
Even though the influence, buzz and relevance of network talk shows has waned, make no mistake, ''The Tonight Show'' still matters, particularly to comedy.
The reports this week that NBC is planning to bring ''The Tonight Show'' back to New York, with Jimmy Fallon replacing Jay Leno in the host's seat -- probably next year -- amount to both an economic and symbolic boon to the comedy world here. (The news came from several senior television executives, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because discussions were continuing; NBC has yet to make an announcement.)
Louis Faranda, the booker at Carolines on Broadway, the comedy club, expects that the new attention will boost local acts.
''Talent people from 'The Tonight Show' will be in town, and that means more opportunities,'' he said. ''This is great for New York comics.'' 
While appearing on ''The Tonight Show,'' an NBC institution, won't make anyone an instant star the way it could in the days of Johnny Carson, being seen by millions remains a rare kind of exposure for a comic and an invaluable credit that clubs around the country lean on for promotion.
''My appearance on 'The Tonight Show' directly led to acquiring a booking agent,'' said Myq Kaplan, a New York-based stand-up comedian who appeared on the show in 2009. ''Having that credit lends more credibility to my name.''
Then there is the basic but not insignificant fact that late-night shows mean jobs for comedy writers.
When rumors started going around that Mr. Fallon would take over ''The Tonight Show,'' the comedian Chris Gethard initially worried that his current show, ''Late Night With Jimmy Fallon,'' which is based in New York, would move to Los Angeles, removing a key comedy outlet and all the jobs that come with it.
''When I heard the news, it actually felt a little bit victorious,'' said Mr. Gethard, who has appeared on ''Late Night With Jimmy Fallon'' and, as host of a weekly cable-access talk show, ''The Chris Gethard Show,'' is a champion of the local comedy scene. ''Hearing this about 'The Tonight Show' -- that's the big one -- it definitely felt a little like watching the Knicks win. All right, yeah!''
Comedians have long moved to the West Coast to work in movies and television. But as the comedy scene has grown in Los Angeles, complaining about the exodus of comedians has become an increasingly common lament in New York.
''L.A. has stolen so much of our natural talent resources, it's about time we snatched one of their institutions!'' the comedian and podcaster Julie Klausner said in an e-mail.
Part of the excitement about a return home of ''The Tonight Show'' has to do with history, if not nostalgia.
''There's nothing more glamorous than walking into Rockefeller Center to do that show,'' said Joan Rivers, who first appeared on ''The Tonight Show'' when Jack Paar was the host in the early 1960s. She was later a regular guest host.
''It's wonderful,'' she added.'' I can now do 'The Tonight Show' and still make an 8 p.m. curtain.''
The departure of ''The Tonight Show'' from New York in 1972 doesn't compare with the Dodgers' departure more than a decade earlier, but it was a major part of the jump-starting of the Los Angeles comedy scene. ''The Tonight Show'' moved to Burbank only a few weeks after the legendary Comedy Store opened on Sunset Boulevard. Since the NBC show's talent coordinator frequently scouted for comics at the Comedy Store, it became a launching pad for future late-night stars like David Letterman and Mr. Leno, who reportedly decided to move to Los Angeles after hearing the Comedy Store mentioned on ''The Tonight Show.''
In ''I'm Dying Up Here,'' a book about comedy in the 1970s, William Knoedelseder describes the move of ''The Tonight Show'' as a critical moment. ''The center of power had shifted to Los Angeles,'' he wrote.
Clearly, the show's return would not have that kind of impact. Today there are several talk shows on either coast, and no comedy institution has more power in shaping careers in New York than ''Saturday Night Live.'' Moreover, much depends on what the new show becomes.
At ''Late Night,'' Mr. Fallon has taken an interest in presenting comics who have never done sets on network talk shows before, like the Lucas Brothers, Sean Patton and Moshe Kasher. He also has won affection from Broadway, since ''Late Night'' has made an effort to have stars of the stage appear, including nightly numbers from musicals one week last year. ''Fallon has been slightly more open to theater than Letterman,'' the theater publicist Adrian Bryan-Brown said.
Of course, if Mr. Fallon took over as host of ''The Tonight Show,'' pressure for ratings would increase, probably shrinking the room for obscure performers. He would have the same challenge that Conan O'Brien did: How to hold onto the mainstream audience while bringing in his younger fans. And he would have a fellow fast-rising star as competition in Jimmy Kimmel, who recently moved into the 11:30 slot on ABC.
It also appears that the most prized network time slot in late-night comedy will remain white and male. But Nell Scovell, a veteran TV writer and scrupulous critic of gender disparity on late-night shows, gives Mr. Fallon credit for employing three female comedy writers, which she says is more than Mr. Letterman and Mr. Leno have combined.
''Having more diverse comedic voices gives Fallon a competitive advantage and allows him to broaden the traditional late-night audience'' Ms. Scovell wrote in an e-mail.
What this development also means is that the future of late-night drama will most likely hinge on the rivalry between Mr. Kimmel and Mr. Fallon. They were both born in Brooklyn to fathers who, in an odd coincidence, worked at I.B.M. They both have shown a respect for talk-show tradition but also a willingness to tweak its conventions.
Their most stark contrast might be sensibility. Mr. Kimmel, 45, has a harder edge, his debt to Mr. Letterman apparent, while Mr. Fallon, 38, has an easygoing charm that belongs to an older school of late-night entertainer.
''He has a little of what Johnny had,'' said Ms. Rivers, referring to her onetime mentor, Mr. Carson. ''Jimmy's still a fan. He wants to be there. He's not big, fat and jaded. That makes a difference.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Reports say Jimmy Fallon will take over ''The Tonight Show'' and move it back to New York. (C1)
 Jimmy Fallon's comedic guests on his late-night show have included not only stars like Tina Fey, top, and Joan Rivers, but also comics new to network shows, like the Lucas Brothers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LLOYD BISHOP/NBC) (C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (58%); TINA FEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



752 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: The Sly Coyote Becomes a Bounty Hunters' Target in Utah

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
OGDEN, Utah -- Spencer Glauser, who started hunting as a boy perched on his father's shoulders, is an unabashed coyote hater. ''One's too many'' to have roaming the mountains and encroaching on towns, he said.
Mr. Glauser is not alone in his aversion or in his desire to do something about it. Last year, the Utah Legislature enacted a ''Predator Control'' incentive program as a way to jointly curb coyotes and safeguard their occasional prey, the mule deer. Under the law, the state now pays civilians to hunt coyotes.
So this winter, when Mr. Glauser, 18, spotted a coyote on a patch of ice, he ably called it to him, and shot it. Then he made his way with the carcass to a Division of Wildlife Resources office here, where a government pickup truck served as a repository for parts. Ears, jaws, scalps and nose-to-tail pelts were deposited in an iced-over flatbed as hunters pulled up with garbage bags carrying the animals' remains. In orderly fashion, their hauls were documented.
One veteran trapper came with a cargo of a dozen skins. Others, like Mr. Glauser, proudly carried one capture. They lined up to qualify for their bounty: $50 per coyote. 
Coyotes are considered a persistent menace in the West, where they and a highly adaptable neighbor, humans, have been encroaching on each other's territory for decades.
''I've seen them pull down animals, and they're vicious,'' said Chase Hufstetler, 29, who has been hunting coyotes for 15 years. ''I think they are a nuisance.''
He arrived at the collection point here, one of dozens around the state, with numbered brown paper bags containing the remains of eight coyotes.
The new bounty program represents one of the nation's largest hunter-based efforts to manage predatory wildlife. Though no one knows how many coyotes there are in Utah, the law allows for as many as 10,000 animals to be killed. (The state is also home to the country's only coyote research facility financed by the government.) By early March, six months into the collection, the remains of 5,988 coyotes had been turned in.
Utah residents pride themselves on the state's natural beauty, its wildlife and the acumen of its hunters, and so the bounty program also represents an experiment in managing the competing agendas of conservation and culture, scientific and economic development. So far, hunters are enthusiastic, environmentalists are crying foul, and state wildlife administrators are stuck in the middle.
''I want to have these predators on the landscape,'' said John Shivik, the mammal program coordinator for the state's Division of Wildlife Resources. ''We're not trying to kill them all off, but we've got to figure out ways to manage the damage they do, to keep them tolerated.
''Is it going to work? We don't know,'' he added. ''But what we're doing is, we're giving it the best shot. Nobody's tried anything this big before.''
Officially, the aim of the program is to protect the mule deer, a symbol of Utah. Larger than white-tailed deer, with distinctive oversize ears and impressive antlers, the mule deer is a favorite of hunters and hikers here. Coyotes prey on the fawns, so the Mule Deer Protection Act allots $500,000 for bounties. Gov. Gary R. Herbert, a Republican, signed the bill last March at a shop that manufactures hunting bows, as a way to emphasize the $2.3 billion that hunting and wildlife appreciation bring to the state economy.
But environmentalists argue that there is little scientific evidence that curbing the number of coyotes actually helps mule deer rebound. (A six-year study published in 2011 found that coyote removal did not effectively increase the mule deer population in neighboring southeastern Idaho.)
''The argument that coyotes have much impact on mule deer populations is speculative,'' said Mark Clemens, the manager of the Utah chapter of the Sierra Club. His organization, along with the state Humane Society and the Western Wildlife Conservancy, opposed the bill. ''It was a terrible bill, we're really distressed by it,'' Mr. Clemens said. ''It's mainly about protecting livestock owners.''
Carl Arky, a spokesman for the Humane Society, went further, suggesting that the program was an economic boondoggle with an intentionally misleading name.
''It's just a way to sell it,'' he said. ''And honestly, who's going to care? The coyote is not an animal that a lot of people have a lot of sympathy for.''
Ranchers are keen to swap stories of coyotes taking out an entire herd of young sheep or cattle, and some have complained to legislators about coyote attacks. But the animals are unpredictable creatures, and not all prey on livestock, said Julie K. Young, a supervisory research biologist for the federal Department of Agriculture.
Count Dr. Young, who has spent her career studying coyotes, as a defender. She runs the coyote research facility in Logan, Utah, where 100 adult coyotes are studied in every aspect from behavior and reproduction to whether they are right- or left-footed. (It is relevant for trapping, and they are about half and half.) Along with scientists from Brigham Young University, Dr. Young, who is also a professor at Utah State University, is involved in a four-year study, independent of the bounty program, on how curbing coyotes affects mule deer. The study is largely financed by the Division of Wildlife Resources, which is also separately collecting data from hunters.
Though coyote populations are notoriously hard to track, estimates put the number of mule deer at about 300,000, a decline from a generation ago, said Anis Aoude, the big-game program coordinator for the Division of Wildlife Resources. Aside from factors like weather, the biggest threat to mule deer is not predation, he said, but changing habitats.
Still, hunters relish the opportunity to eliminate coyotes to give mule deer a better chance.
''We're just doing what we can to help the deer population and be responsible stewards of the land,'' said Blake Downey, 28, a hydrogeologist who came to the collection point in Ogden toting the jaws, ears and scalp of a coyote he bagged while bird hunting with his dog.
Mr. Hufstetler, who sold the pelts of his eight coyotes to a fur company, is keen to get them off the land -- except, he said, ''I love to hunt them.''
And Mr. Glauser, who is involved with Sportsmen for Fish and Wildlife, a nonprofit lobbying group, saw the coyotes' natural predation on fawns as a threat to a Utah way of life. ''At some point, I want my kids to be able to hunt deer, and be able to kill big deer,'' he said.
The incongruity of killing one animal to spare another, only to kill the second animal for sport (or food), is not recognized here. More confounding are studies that suggest that coyotes are so hardy, and so reproductively able, that they will rebound even from large-scale slaughter. Killing coyotes may not result in fewer coyotes. As Dr. Young put it, ''The only truth about coyotes: they'll make a liar of you every time.''
By and large, though, the public does not seem to want more coyotes. ''The public wants more deer,'' Dr. Shivik said. Nature may not cooperate, but authorities parsing legislation must.
Wildlife management, Dr. Shivik said, ''is as much about managing people.
''And sometimes,'' he added, choosing his words with care, ''what people want isn't easy to do, biologically.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A captive coyote at the National Wildlife Research Center in Millville, Utah. The state's bounty program pays hunters there $50 for every coyote killed. (A9)
 Julie K. Young demonstrating a device used to study coyotes' social behavior. At right, coyote pelts claimed for bounty. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK SZYLARD DAENITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILDLIFE (89%); MAMMALS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ANIMAL CONTROL (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OGDEN, UT, USA (90%) UTAH, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



753 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Lots of A's but Fewer Spots For Girls at City's Elite Schools

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

 BODY:
In the United States, girls have outshined boys in high school for years, amassing more A's, earning more diplomas and gliding more readily into college, where they rack up more degrees -- whether at the bachelor's, master's or doctoral levels.
But that has not been the trend when it comes to one of the highest accomplishments a New York City student can achieve: winning a seat in one of the specialized high schools.
At all eight of the schools that admit students based on an eighth-grade test, boys outnumber girls, sometimes emphatically.
Boys make up nearly 60 percent of the largest and most renowned schools, Stuyvesant, the Bronx High School of Science and Brooklyn Tech, and as much as 67 percent at the High School for Mathematics, Science and Engineering at City College, according to city statistics. 
While studies suggest that girls perform as well as boys in math and science classes in high school, their participation in those fields drops off in college and ultimately in careers, a phenomenon that the White House, with its Council on Women and Girls, and the National Science Foundation have tried to reverse.
The fact that girls are underrepresented in New York's top high schools, which tend to be focused on math and science, and which have more than a dozen Nobel laureates among their alumni, worries some academics who see the schools as prime breeding grounds for future scientists and engineers.
''It is very suspect that you don't have as many girls as boys in New York City's specialized schools,'' said Janet S. Hyde, a psychology professor at the University of Wisconsin who has published research on girls' performance in math and science from elementary school through college. Individual girls might be losing opportunities, she said, ''but it is also bad for society as a whole because in a global economy we need to identify the best scientists and mathematicians.''
The racial makeup of the schools has been a combustible issue for years -- 5 percent of the students accepted this month into the elite schools were black, and 7 percent were Hispanic. Civil rights groups have argued that using a test as the sole basis of admission favors students with means to prepare for the test, and have pushed unsuccessfully to have the schools adopt additional criteria, like middle school grades, for admission.
The gender imbalance has not generated the same kind of protest. But several academics and analysts said the reliance on the test might also play a role in keeping girls out. While girls outperform boys on an array of academic benchmarks in high school and college, they still trail on standardized tests, like the SAT, according to federal Department of Education statistics.
This year, of those who took the Specialized High School Admissions Test, 51 percent were girls. But only 45 percent of those offered seats in the schools were girls.
To Chester E. Finn Jr., president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, an education policy group, the gap at the elite schools could be as elemental as their perception as havens for science, technology, engineering or math, making them a natural magnet for boys, just as girls might gravitate to schools known for humanities.
''I don't think you're looking at discrimination here,'' said Mr. Finn, who, with Jessica A. Hockett, wrote the recent book, ''Exam Schools: Inside America's Most Selective Public High Schools.'' ''I think you're looking at habit, culture, perceptions, tradition and curricular emphasis.''
Still, he said, New York's experience runs against a national trend, in which enrollment in highly competitive high schools is 55 percent female. ''The big gender-related chasm in American education these days is how much worse boys are doing, than girls,'' he said.
Even the specialized schools with a focus on the classics and humanities, Brooklyn Latin and the High School of American Studies at Lehman College, now have a majority of male students. It was not always that way: Girls outnumbered boys at both schools until recently. American Studies has used the specialized admissions test since it opened a decade ago.
But in the first few years at Brooklyn Latin, founded in 2006, it had a broader admission policy based on grades and exams. Once it was made one of the specialized test schools, its population swung toward males.
''Sometimes, we see boys who are very bright, and can do well on an admissions test,'' said Jason K. Griffiths, the principal. ''But then I think the skills that a student needs to succeed in a school may be a little bit different.''
A corollary, perhaps, of the masculine leanings of the eight schools is the makeup of some of the elite high schools that do not use the specialized admissions test for admission.
At Fiorello H. La Guardia High School of Music and Art and Performing Arts, which admits students based on grades and auditions or portfolios of artwork, 73 percent of the students are girls. At Bard High School Early College, which has campuses in Manhattan and Queens, as well as at Millennium, Beacon and Townsend Harris High Schools, girls outnumber boys by at least 3 to 2.
Shael Polakow-Suransky, the chief academic officer in the city's Education Department, said the eight specialized-test schools represented just a portion of the city's best schools, so there was a flaw in studying gender disparities solely in those eight schools. ''These are not the best schools in the city,'' he said of the eight specialized schools. ''They are among the best schools in the city.''
He said that at the highest echelons of test-takers, girls scored as well as boys, but that overall, fewer of the strongest female students were taking the exam.
''And the question is why,'' he said. Girls, he said, ''are choosing some of these other options, over the specialized schools, because they think it is better or they prefer not to take this exam.'' Or, he added, ''Perhaps there are other reasons that further research could shed light on.''
Students at the schools -- boys and girls alike -- said that they were not bothered by the imbalance, though it was sometimes noticeable. At Stuyvesant, Caroline Phado, 16, recalled how the five girls in her freshman swimming class were tickled watching 20 boys pile out of the locker room to join them. Kathryn Rafailov, 16, a junior, said boys so dominated her square-dancing class that they had to pair off with one another.
Students and administrators said girls held their own in the classroom, even when they were outnumbered. Several students at the High School for Mathematics, Science and Engineering, a 436-student school housed at City College, said that a girl was the top student in three of the four grades.
Outside Townsend Harris, in Queens, where girls make up 70 percent of the student body, several girls said they were attracted by its more holistic admission policy, as well as its focus.
''I feel like, all the other schools, they mainly specialize in math and science, and, I don't know, that doesn't sound appealing to me,'' said Ritika Modi, 16, a junior. She said she did not even apply to any specialized schools. Also, as a resident of Queens Village, she said, her parents ''weren't O.K.'' with her commuting as far as Brooklyn or the Bronx, an issue several other girls noted.
Dr. Michael A. Lerner, the principal at Bard, said he has worked to find ways to balance classes. This year, for the first time, the dry-marker board he keeps in his office reflects a 50-50 split between boys and girls in the current ninth grade.
Of the 3,060 students who applied to his school this year, 44 percent were boys. To help rank the candidates, he said, he simply adjusted the focus of student interviews to more effectively draw boys out in describing their own strengths. This year he offered seats to 136 boys and 134 girls.
''Are we worried about getting unqualified boys?'' asked Dr. Lerner. ''No not at all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Students at Brooklyn Technical High School on Friday
 it is one of the eight specialized schools where girls are in the minority. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) CHARTS: Prestigious High Schools, Testing and Gender: New York City high schools that rely entirely on the eighth-grade Specialized High School Admissions Test tend to have fewer female students. (Source: New York City Department of Education) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WOMEN (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); ENGINEERING (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); GENDER EQUALITY (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TRENDS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); PSYCHOLOGY (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); GLOBALIZATION (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



754 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; CURRENTS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: A Politician From the Future

BYLINE: By ANAND GIRIDHARADAS

 BODY:
Cory A. Booker is hoping to be the next U.S. senator from New Jersey. But the constituency he seems keenest to represent is the future itself.
Perhaps more than any prominent American politician, Mr. Booker -- the 43-year-old Democrat and mayor of the rust-coated, luck-starved city of Newark -- has cultivated his brand as a leader of, by and for a new era.
He tweets with something approaching the frequency of his own heartbeat, so much that his staff calls Twitter his girlfriend. He meditates. He balances old-school talk of God with new-age ideas of being ''open to what the universe brings me.'' He champions Big Data and knows how many consumer impressions he got last week. He gushes over what may be called the hipster economy: using technology to rent out bedrooms, borrow vacuum cleaners, share cars and raise seed capital. 
Educated at Stanford, Oxford and Yale, Mr. Booker is a model of self-propelled ascent in a postindustrial city where rises like his have grown ever rarer. In conversation, he might cite the writers James Baldwin and Langston Hughes; Shiva, the Hindu god of destruction; the business book ''Built to Last''; ancient Roman history; and an African proverb about going fast alone but far together. Owing in part to the gap between his own sophistication and the travails of the city he has led since 2006, he has endured ceaseless speculation about whether Newark is merely a steppingstone.
Now, as he turns his attention to a U.S. Senate race in 2014, the more interesting question may be whether a self-styled politician from the future can make it to the Washington of right now -- and what a city of marble, pearls and power ties might make of him.
Even as the Republican Party undergoes a time of soul-searching, self-flagellation and contestation, Mr. Booker's emergence hints at schisms to come among Democrats. He represents the Googly-Facebookish wing of the party -- liberal as ever in its views on issues like same-sex marriage and abortion rights, but more libertarian than the old guard on economics, more trusting of markets than unions to improve lives, more reliant on the business jargon of ''synergy'' and ''scale'' than the language of activism and justice.
Mr. Booker sounds like a new kind of Democrat, for example, when he says that running Newark has made him trust data more than his own liberal principles on the issue of reducing gun violence.
When the Supreme Court struck down Washington's gun ban in 2008, Mr. Booker's initial reaction was horror: To allow handgun sales in an urban area was to tempt disaster. Then he sought data from his staff, and they challenged him: ''We just did a quick look at all the shootings in my city and saw that nobody who legally went out and bought a handgun was involved in shootings.''
''Here I would have gotten emotionally, politically charged up about a Supreme Court decision, but the data didn't hold that,'' he continued in a recent interview. ''So I've become much more loyal to big data.''
This is a strain of pragmatism that is different from what President Barack Obama ran on in 2008. It is less about coming together despite our differences, less about transcendence and more about thinking the way businesses do: doing the right thing, where the right thing is defined as what the spreadsheet shows.
''The issue is not finding the answers,'' Mr. Booker says. ''It's just growing them to scale.''
On certain issues, as when speaking of same-sex marriage, Mr. Booker's language retains the timbre of activism. ''The story of America is this country founded in perfect ideals,'' he said, but in ''a savagely imperfect time.'' The American project, in his estimation, is to close the gap between ideals and lived reality.
But when Mr. Booker discusses the overwhelmingly poor, minority community he serves, talk of justice recedes behind talk of creating opportunity. He grew most excited in an hourlong conversation about so-called ''collaborative consumption,'' the spreading practice of renting, sharing and bartering things, like a bike or a spare bedroom, rather than owning them outright.
Many in government have been wary of services like Airbnb, which, in allowing people to earn money renting out rooms, diverts funds from tax-paying, unionized, regulated hotels -- as do similar services in transportation, finance and other spheres. But Mr. Booker believes such services give the less fortunate the chance to make ends meet without waiting for the return of union jobs that may never come back.
''It's actually helping all of us to enter a world of entrepreneurial interaction in a way that is so democratic,'' he said.
The mayor's enthusiasm is not only a challenge to the regulatory state that his party has long championed. It also agitates against the conventional wisdom prevalent on the left that the poor need more protection from capitalism -- and not, as Mr. Booker suggests, more access to capitalism.
While many in his party advocate public works programs and the expansion of social insurance, the mayor prefers to speak about technology's helping the poor help themselves. ''People are now given the tools to control their economic destiny,'' he says. His own destiny depends on whether such ideas resonate with New Jersey in the here and now -- or sound like mere futurology.
Join an online conversation at http://anand.ly and follow on Twitter.com/anandwrites

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GUN CONTROL (84%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); HISTORY (71%); CLASSICS (70%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (70%); BIG DATA (69%); WRITERS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); ABORTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



755 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Path To a U.S. Visa, Often by Luck

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
When Angy Rivera, an illegal immigrant, was a young girl in New York City, she was sexually abused by her mother's boyfriend. He was eventually convicted and imprisoned, but only recently did Ms. Rivera find out that her cooperation with investigators had qualified her for a special benefit: a visa for victims of serious crimes.
Many young illegal immigrants across the country have similarly learned in recent months that they could be eligible for little-known visas that would allow them to put years of worrying about deportation behind them, immigration lawyers said. 
These discoveries have come about as an unintended consequence of an immigration policy adopted last June by President Obama that allows young illegal immigrants, under certain conditions, to apply for the right to remain in the country temporarily and work.
The policy, called deferred action, has spurred hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants to seek legal help, often for the first time in their lives. During these consultations, many have learned that they are eligible for other, more permanent, forms of immigration relief, like special visas for crime victims.
More than a dozen immigration lawyers around the country -- from private practice, advocacy organizations and university law clinics -- said that as many as a quarter of the young immigrants who have consulted with them about deferred action since last summer appeared to be eligible for visas or other relief.
''This whole time I had been in the system already and no one had said anything to me or my mom,'' said Ms. Rivera, 22, who was born in Colombia and entered the United States on false immigration documents when she was 4. ''It was out of the blue for me.''
The unexpected visa eligibility for so many young people highlights a defining facet of illegal immigration and of the debate over immigration reform. Many illegal immigrants are so fearful of contact with the authorities, or thwarted by language and economic barriers, that they live in a kind of isolation that often prevents them from taking advantage of opportunities or services to which they are entitled under the law.
It is a measure of this isolation that not even Ms. Rivera knew that she was a candidate for a special visa -- even though she is an immigration advocate and writes a popular online advice column for young illegal immigrants.
She found out about her eligibility for the crime-victims visa, called a U visa, only last fall when she met with a lawyer at Atlas: DIY, a nonprofit group in New York City that works with young immigrants.
Her lawyer, Lauren Burke, said advocacy groups and government agencies had not always done an adequate job of informing illegal immigrants about their rights under the nation's complex immigration laws.
''The onus is on the immigrant for him or her to find out the information,'' Ms. Burke said. ''But if you say, 'I need immigration help,' you are exposing so much about yourself and putting yourself at such risk.''
Deferred action allows recipients to work legally and live openly without fear of deportation. But it must be renewed after two years, and the program could be canceled by President Obama or his successors. As a result, illegal immigrants would generally prefer to obtain a green card or a visa that would open the door to permanent residency.
Federal officials insisted that they were being vigilant against false eligibility claims, which can result in criminal charges and deportation. Still, some opponents of more lenient policies have contended that deferred action and other immigration programs might tempt some illegal immigrants to commit fraud in order to qualify.
More than 438,000 people have applied for deferred action, and more than 411,000 have been scheduled for fingerprinting and photographs for background checks, the second step in the process. By some estimates, as many as 1.7 million people could be eligible for the reprieve under the program, which is open to people who meet certain conditions, including that they entered the country before they were 16 and were under the age of 31 as of June 15, 2012.
Laura Lichter, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said the wave of immigrants seeking legal help for the first time and discovering their eligibility for some kind of relief was ''one of the very good things'' to emerge from the deferred action policy.
Many of the young immigrants who have sought help for deferred action were victims of crimes or were abandoned, neglected or abused by a parent, making them eligible for visas under existing programs, lawyers said. Others have discovered that they were able to apply for permanent residency through a family connection.
Shelly, 25, an illegal immigrant from Jamaica, said that as she was talking about deferred action with a lawyer at African Services Committee, an immigrant assistance organization in Harlem, she found out she could petition for a green card under the Violence Against Women Act because she had been physically and emotionally abused for years by her American-born husband.
''I felt like I was living again,'' recalled Shelly, who asked that her full name be withheld in order not to anger her husband, from whom she is estranged.
Federal immigration officials, led by Alejandro Mayorkas, director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, have conducted an outreach campaign in recent years about special visas.
Even before the deferred action program began, the number of special visas had been increasing in recent years, according to government statistics. In the 2012 federal fiscal year, which ended on Sept. 30, about 24,800 applications were submitted for the U visa, with about 10,100 approved, up from 6,800 applications and 5,800 approved in 2009, the first year that it was offered.
Another illegal immigrant, who gave only her first initial, J., said she revealed to a lawyer during her deferred action consultation that she had been repeatedly raped by a smuggler when she was 11 as he helped her get to the United States from her home in Guyana.
With the help of Ms. Burke, the lawyer at Atlas: DIY, who is also supervising staff attorney at the New York Asian Women's Center, J. obtained the deferred action reprieve last year. She then filed a petition for a T visa, which is reserved for victims of human trafficking.
J., who is now 19 and a sophomore in college in New York, said that when she heard about the T visa, she started to cry, in part because she was angry with herself that she had never told a lawyer about her experience.
''I felt that if I had said something earlier in my life then my situation could've been changed way before,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angy Rivera, an illegal immigrant, only recently found out she was eligible for an obscure visa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); DEPORTATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); VICTIMS RIGHTS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); COLOMBIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



756 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: New Leader Taps Mexican Discontent to Press Agenda of Change

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- Few topics get Mexicans more worked up than their country's cellphone service, especially that provided by the dominant carrier, Telcel.
''Their rates are really high, and then there's no signal sometimes,'' said Armando Gómez Fuentes, 42. ''The signal goes away really quickly. It's a mess.''
But there he stood recently at a Telcel store, waiting to buy a new phone, resigned to the dominance of the carrier, which controls 70 percent of the Mexican market, and doubtful that the country's smaller rivals could do any better. 
It is that well of popular frustration -- over poor cellphone service, limited programming on television, flagging schools -- that President Enrique Peña Nieto has tapped in a series of attention-getting moves that he promises will ''transform Mexico'' and accelerate growth in an economy that has expanded too slowly to lift the country out of the developing world.
He has promised to bring competition and more government oversight to the telecommunications market, taking aim at the monopoly-like control by one of the richest men in the world, Carlos Slim Helú. Also in the president's sights is the giant media company Televisa, which dominates broadcasting through four networks and would face renewed competition under a proposal that could lead to the creation of two new channels. And his government has jailed the boss of the teachers' union, the largest in Latin America, on accusations of embezzlement as part of a sweeping move to wrest full control of the schools from it.
It remains to be seen how any of the changes will turn out; Mexico has a long tradition of bold, finely shaped laws that are ultimately watered down or simply not enforced. The telecommunications proposal passed one chamber of Congress late Thursday and is now headed to the Senate.
But it seems clear that Mr. Peña Nieto has banked substantial political capital and bolstered his popularity, which may add momentum to thornier changes he plans, including opening up the state oil monopoly, long a source of national pride, to private investment.
The teachers' union, Mr. Slim, Televisa -- the targets, in the minds of many Mexicans, are hard to cheer for.
''He is trying to gain credibility and popularity,'' said Helena Varela Guinot, a political scientist at the Ibero-American University in Mexico City. ''He is saying, 'I am a president that gets results, this is a government that is efficient, takes risks and goes after the big problems,' although it is not clear in reality if his reforms will achieve the desired results.''
Those who remember the autocratic ways of Mr. Peña Nieto's party, which governed Mexico for more than 70 years but was then ousted from power for 12, see a presidential power play that may yet deliver results, but with less space for those who disagree.
''His goal is to reshape the power of the presidency,'' said Sergio Aguayo, a political analyst at the Colegio de México. ''Not to the level it used to be, because that is impossible. But he is a true believer that Mexico needs a 'presidentialist' system.''
Some analysts see in his priorities a clear sign that he does not want his tenure defined by the country's security problems, with thousands killed or missing in a war against drug and organized crime groups. Mr. Peña Nieto has argued that improving the economy and education in the long run will bring down the violence, and he has said little about the day-to-day mayhem that afflicts many parts of the country.
That may simply reflect the concerns of Mexicans, who rank the economy as a greater concern than crime.
''The same issues identified now are the same issues identified in the previous three presidential elections as top concerns: poverty, underemployment and economic growth,'' said Roderic Ai Camp, a Mexico scholar at Claremont McKenna College in California who has written an analysis of Mr. Peña Nieto's cabinet.
Still, the new president now faces the challenge of turning proposals into laws and, more important, carrying them out.
Mr. Peña Nieto recently persuaded his party, the PRI, or Institutional Revolutionary Party, at its annual gathering to lift its historic opposition to private investment in the oil industry and to consider the idea of tax levies on food and medicine, which the government is considering to raise revenue.
Earlier, he negotiated a ''Pact for Mexico'' with opposition parties to help speed overhaul efforts and avert the congressional gridlock, often led by his own party, that has thwarted previous administrations.
Mr. Slim, who owns about 8 percent of The New York Times Company, has publicly praised the president's proposal and has said he welcomes competition. His business has been diversifying anyway, and the proposal would let him keep 50 percent of the market, while giving him something he has long sought: the possibility of entering the television market.
On Thursday, the International Olympic Committee awarded one of Mr. Slim's companies, América Móvil, the Latin American broadcast rights to the 2014 Winter Games and the 2016 Summer Games ''on all media platforms,'' the company said in a statement.
Televisa, too, has said it officially welcomes the plan, which could allow it to expand its stake in the cellphone market through its partnership with a Slim rival, Iusacell.
Analysts have also questioned whether any serious competitor will emerge to threaten Televisa's lock hold on soap operas and other popular programming.
''The reform is not bad, but neither is it a panacea,'' Gerardo Esquivel, an economist at the Colegio de México, wrote on his blog in analyzing the plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); TEACHER UNIONS (64%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (79%); CARLOS SLIM HELU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



757 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: In Cyprus, a Crisis Spreads

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Two decades ago, Dmitry E. Rybolovlev was a small-town hustler hoping to strike it rich amid the collapse of the Soviet Union. Today, he is one of the wealthiest men in the world, with a penthouse in Monaco, a yacht named ''My Anna'' worth more than $100 million, and two of the most expensive private residences in the United States.
Much of that money, it so happens, flowed through Cyprus.
His rapid rise was as typical for a Russian oligarch as is his deep dependence on Cyprus for offshore banking. Working in part through Cypriot trusts, Mr. Rybolovlev, a former doctor, sold his gigantic potash fertilizer mining conglomerate after a tumultuous and lucrative run as owner and spirited the money abroad. Then the good times rolled. 
In 2008, Mr. Rybolovlev, now 46, bought a Florida mansion from Donald Trump for $95 million. At the time, this was the most ever paid for a private residence in the United States. Almost as an afterthought, he complained it was in such poor repair that it could not be inhabited.
A few years later, Mr. Rybolovlev bought the most expensive apartment ever sold in New York from the family of the former Citigroup chairman Sanford I. Weill, paying $88 million for the penthouse at 15 Central Park West.
''Anyone who is a Russian oligarch and wants to make sure that, over the long term, his assets are protected wants to make sure those assets are out of Russia,'' said David B. Newman, a partner at Day Pitney, a New York law firm representing Mr. Rybolovlev's estranged wife, Elena, in a long-running divorce case. ''If you are a friend of the government, you do very well, but if that relationship turns -- and this can happen quickly -- you want to be out of Russia.''
Today, this common practice among wealthy Russians like Mr. Rybolovlev -- using Cyprus to worm their way into the global financial elite and to protect themselves if they should fall out of favor with the capricious President Vladimir V. Putin -- has drawn the Russian government deeply into the negotiations for a bailout of Cyprus's banking system, whether officials there like it or not.
Russian money flowing into Cypriot banks dwarfs the island's $25 billion economy. About 25 percent of Russian foreign direct investment moves through Cyprus, according to an estimate by Morgan Stanley, frequently in a ''round-trip'' process that serves to lubricate the Russian economy. Cypriot entities, often owned by rich Russians, lent $40 billion a year to Russia from 2007 through 2011.
With a fortune estimated at $9.1 billion by Forbes magazine, Mr. Rybolovlev has reasons to worry about his status at home. But he is also the largest Russian investor in the Cypriot banking sector, which has given him a huge stake in preventing its collapse. As far back as July, Mr. Rybolovlev was negotiating to help recapitalize the Bank of Cyprus, according to Alithia, a newspaper based in the Cypriot capital, Nicosia.
At the same time, while Mr. Putin might not mind seeing Mr. Rybolovlev suffer a bit, he has an interest in protecting Russian wealth held abroad because of the role it plays at home and the opportunities it presents to expand Russian influence. If no bailout from the European Union is forthcoming and Cypriot banks collapse, the risk to Russian companies and oligarchs, some of them much closer to Mr. Putin than Mr. Rybolovlev is, would be far graver than the potential loss of deposited funds to the 9.9 percent ''stabilization tax'' originally proposed by the European Central Bank. At a minimum, capital controls could freeze all funds now in Cyprus.
The stakes are particularly high for wealthy Russians: Moody's, the rating agency, has estimated that Russian deposits in banks and loans to Cypriot companies total $70 billion, or about 4 percent of Russia's gross domestic product. Some 42 percent of the value of Cypriot bank deposits is in accounts with more than half a million euros.
As is typical for Russian oligarchs, Mr. Rybolovlev set up corporate trusts in Cyprus with breezy-sounding names like Aries and Virgo. These were little more than post-office boxes monitored by lawyers. But those trust accounts owned vast, gritty mining enterprises deep in the Russian hinterlands and filled up with countless riches as worries about global food shortages in the last decade sent fertilizer prices sky-high.
A spokesman for Mr. Rybolovlev, Sergey Chernitsyn, declined to comment on a possible role for Mr. Rybolovlev in propping up Cypriot banks with additional cash, or his reasons for becoming involved in banking and investing in Cyprus. Mr. Chernitsyn cited legal restrictions because of the divorce proceedings, which are under way in a Geneva court.
Details have nonetheless come to light about Mr. Rybolovlev's wealth and that of other Russians. ''We've become well aware through the case of the vast amount of Russian money that has made its way to Cyprus through the oligarchs,'' said Mr. Newman, the lawyer representing Elena Rybolovleva.
Having much of his money safely parked in Cyprus has an added advantage for Mr. Rybolovlev, Mr. Newman said: the island tax haven has gone out of its way to pass legislation friendly to rich men in such situations.
When Mr. Rybolovlev sold his fertilizer company, Uralkali, in 2007, the proceeds flowed to Aries and Virgo, the Cyprus shell companies, Mr. Newman said, ensuring the money's safety. In 2010, he bought 9.7 percent of the Bank of Cyprus through a trust in the name of his daughters: Anna, the namesake of his yacht, and Ekaterina, 22, who is studying in New York and lives in the Manhattan apartment.
Around the time of the sale, Uralkali was coming under intense pressure from Russian authorities because of an industrial accident that caused gigantic sinkholes, some up to 50 stories deep, to open under the town of Berezniki, about 990 miles east of Moscow. Dozens of buildings were destroyed and thousands of people had to be moved, at great expense.
Though a government commission in 2008 cleared Mr. Rybolovlev of wrongdoing, a close aide to Mr. Putin, Igor I. Sechin, said that he bore some responsibility. By then, though, the money was in Cyprus and Mr. Rybolovlev was living in Monaco.
Mr. Newman argued that the Cypriot shell companies, in addition to shielding the funds from Mr. Rybolovlev's wife, served to protect his riches from any effort by the Putin government to force him to pay part of the cost of the mine accident. ''The whole idea was to have the interest in the Russian companies held not in Russia, but outside Russia, in Cyprus,'' Mr. Newman said.
A Russian government official who advises cabinet members on economic matters said the government was pessimistic about the chances of a bailout working in Cyprus, given the likelihood of a crushing run on its banks once they reopen. And if it were just Mr. Rybolovlev who would be hit, Mr. Putin might be happy to let the chips fall where they may. But it is not just Mr. Rybolovlev.
''He's not very well received here in Russia,'' the adviser said, adding that Mr. Rybolovlev faced no criminal charges, including for moving his fortune offshore through Cypriot shell companies. ''What can I say? Some people just don't deserve the money they have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An employee of Cyprus Popular Bank reacts during a protest on Friday in front of Parliament in Nicosia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK BAZ/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Dmitry Rybolovlev, worth an estimated $9.1 billion, has sheltered much of his fortune in Cyprus. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIONEL CIRONNEAU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); FERTILIZERS (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); INWARD INVESTMENT (67%); LAWYERS (66%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); SANDY WEILL (54%); DONALD TRUMP (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CYPRUS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MONACO (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



758 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: With Obama as Broker, Israelis and Turkey End Dispute Over Ship Raid

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN and MARK LANDLER; Jodi Rudoren reported from Jerusalem, and Mark Landler from Amman, Jordan. Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem, and Sebnem Arsu from Istanbul.

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Under persistent prodding from President Obama, Israel and Turkey resolved a bitter three-year dispute on Friday with a diplomatic thaw that will help a fragile region confront Syria's civil war, while handing the president a solid accomplishment as he closed out his visit to the Middle East.
The breakthrough took place in the most improbable of surroundings: a trailer parked on the tarmac of Ben-Gurion International Airport. Moments before Mr. Obama left for Jordan, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu telephoned the Turkish prime minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and apologized for deadly errors in Israel's 2010 raid on a Turkish ship that was trying to bring aid to Palestinians in Gaza.
After years of angrily demanding an apology, Mr. Erdogan accepted Mr. Netanyahu's gesture, and both sides agreed to dispatch envoys to each other's nations, having recalled them in 2011. 
The president's involvement, a senior American official said, was crucial to both leaders, which is why Mr. Netanyahu scheduled the call before Mr. Obama's departure from Israel. Mr. Erdogan insisted on speaking to Mr. Obama first before the president handed the phone over to Mr. Netanyahu. In the end, the call produced a win-win for all sides.
Mr. Obama achieved reconciliation between two of the United States' most important allies, while Turkey and Israel won good will with the White House, important for two nations that have made ties to the United States central to their foreign policies. Turkey and Israel, along with Jordan, have also been three pillars of stability for the United States as it confronts a civil war in Syria that threatens to spill beyond its borders and destabilize the broader region.
''Both of us agreed the moment was ripe,'' Mr. Obama said of Mr. Netanyahu at a news conference later in Amman, Jordan. He cautioned that the détente was a ''work in progress'' and that Turkey and Israel would continue to have significant disagreements as they mended fences. American officials say both countries are still ''working the issue'' of dropping criminal charges against four current and former top Israeli military officials that Turkey had indicted in the flotilla raid, and of determining Israel's compensation to Turkey.
Mr. Obama reiterated his support for Jordan, too, announcing after a meeting with King Abdullah II that the United States would provide an additional $200 million in aid to help Jordan with the burden of caring for 460,000 Syrian refugees who have flooded into the country.
Israel and Turkey have a host of shared economic and security interests, and both are concerned about the unraveling situation in Syria. Turkey also could play a strategic role in Washington and Jerusalem's efforts to stop Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, as well as in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
It was the Palestinian issue that opened the rift between the two, when Israeli commandos raided the Turkish ship, the Mavi Marmara, as it was trying to break Israel's blockade of Gaza to deliver supplies. Nine people were killed in clashes on board, prompting an international outcry, several investigations and a rebuke by the United Nations.
''The prime minister made it clear that the tragic results regarding the Mavi Marmara were unintentional and that Israel expresses regret over injuries and loss of life,'' a statement issued by Mr. Netanyahu's office said.
Mr. Erdogan's office, in turn, said he had accepted the apology ''on behalf of the Turkish people,'' and that in his conversation with Mr. Netanyahu he had emphasized their nations' shared history and prior eras of friendship and cooperation.
The call's timing came as a surprise after a visit by Mr. Obama that was intensely symbolic and, publicly at least, tightly focused on Iran, Syria and the peace process. Mr. Obama used his trip to convince the Israeli public that he was a strong supporter and ally -- credibility he then hoped to use to persuade the Israelis that it was safe, and wise, to earnestly embrace negotiations with Palestinians. Public reaction suggested that Mr. Obama did win the public trust, but it was not at all clear that he would achieve the second goal and prompt any significant movement in the long-stalled peace process.
Though important, the Turkey-Israel feud was less complex than those other problems. Defusing it may be the only immediate, concrete achievement Mr. Obama can claim from his visit here, beyond a broad sense that he has improved his standing with the Israeli public.
Still, the Obama administration has been working intensively for months, even years, to repair the breach, according to Israeli, American and Turkish officials. Mr. Obama said he had raised it regularly with both leaders, as did former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. But Mr. Netanyahu had resolutely refused to issue an apology, despite having coming close to agreeing before the recent election in Israel.
Changes in Mr. Obama's cabinet and in the makeup of Israel's new government helped ease the situation, officials said.
The new secretary of state, John Kerry, made it a focus of his visit to Ankara, the Turkish capital, this month, officials said. American diplomats prodded Mr. Erdogan to step back from his recent comments comparing Zionism to fascism, which in turn made it easier for them to get Mr. Netanyahu to make a move. The worsening situation in Syria, officials said, was also a catalyst.
''Obama and Kerry worked on it the last two months, and they made the difference,'' said Alon Liel, a former Israeli ambassador to Turkey. ''With the whole region in such turmoil, it was very difficult that the two allies of the United States in the region were not cooperating. There was no dialogue whatsoever on the high political level and even on the high diplomatic level.''
Ersin Kalaycioglu, a foreign policy professor at Istanbul's Sabanci University, saw the ice-breaking as an American move to strengthen Israel's position among hostile neighbors.
''America does not want to leave any conflicts behind as it confines its power projection in the region,'' he said. ''Israel's good relations with Turkey would put more pressure on Iran.''
In addition to the apology, the two leaders also discussed further easing the restrictions on imports to Gaza, which had been the goal of the Mavi Marmara, one of a series of flotillas Israel that has blocked from approaching the Palestinian coastal enclave.
There was no specific new arrangement made, but Israeli officials said they would consider allowing more goods in as long as rockets were not fired from Gaza into their country, as they were Thursday morning.
''The two leaders remained in consensus to work together for the improvement of the humanitarian situation on the Palestinian soil,'' said the statement from Mr. Erdogan's office.
Izzet Sahin, a leader of the I.H.H., an Istanbul-based charity that led the Mavi Marmara flotilla, said the apology, compensation and discussion of import restrictions amounted to ''an important statement,'' but added, ''We have to see the implementation before we honor our dead.''
Avigdor Lieberman, the former foreign minister who many saw as an obstacle to an Israeli apology, on Friday called it a ''grave mistake'' that would undermine his nation's military.
While a renewed alliance with Turkey could eventually lead to progress on other fronts, Mr. Obama left Israel on a wave of good will but lacking public, tangible take-homes on Syria, Iran and the Palestinians.
Mark Regev, Mr. Netanyahu's spokesman, reiterated Friday that the prime minister was ready to resume negotiations if President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority would do so without preconditions. But he said that Mr. Obama's visit had not shifted Israel's position.
''We want to see a peace process where both sides are playing a part to move the process forward -- we want to see a process that is a two-way street,'' Mr. Regev said. ''It can't just be that one side makes demands and the other side makes concessions.''
Mr. Obama also made three symbolic pilgrimages on Friday: meeting with Christian leaders at the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem; laying wreaths and stones at the graves of Theodor Herzl, the founder of modern Zionism, and Yitzhak Rabin, the slain prime minister and peacemaker; and visiting Yad Vashem, Israel's Holocaust museum.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, second from left
and President Shimon Peres at the Holocaust museum.
President Obama with King Abdullah II of Jordan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 President Obama met Friday with King Abdullah II, right, at his palace in Amman and pledged an additional $200 million to help Jordan care for Syrian refugees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); MAY 2010 GAZA FLOTILLA RAID (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); REFUGEES (72%); AIRPORTS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); INDICTMENTS (60%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (78%); SHIMON PERES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); AMMAN, JORDAN (92%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JORDAN (95%); SYRIA (95%); TURKEY (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



759 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ON RELIGION; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Letter by Letter, Keeping a Catholic Outpost Alive

BYLINE: By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN. 
E-mail: sgf1@columbia.edu

 BODY:
EAST ST. LOUIS, Ill. -- On a raw and windswept day in this forsaken place, as the rest of the world's eyes turned to the cardinals assembling amid Vatican grandeur to select a new pope, Brother Norbert Karpfinger sat down to write a letter. It was late February, two weeks into Lent, a busy time for the correspondence that is his mission.
Eighty years old, more than a half-century in the Marianist order, Brother Norbert bent over the dining room table in the convent house next to a vacant lot that once held the St. Adalbert Church. Across the street, the Catholic Daycare center pulsed with life, young life. 
The day care center is one of the handful of outposts of the Roman Catholic Church left in the city, where Catholic social teaching about service and the preferential option for the poor can still be enacted. That center was the subject every time Brother Norbert set pen to paper.
''Dear Kim,'' he wrote, addressing a middle-age man who had been his student 40 years ago in Colorado. ''As in recent years I write with the hope of support for this wonderful work of charity for little children. Please help this important place for little ones by sending a donation. God bless you and all those dear to you.''
Over the next hour, alone at his table, with his age-spotted hands, Brother Norbert wrote a half-dozen more letters -- to a former postulant at the Marianists' mother house, to the parents of a former student at a Catholic high school in a St. Louis suburb and to several members of the class of 1964 at the University of Notre Dame, where the brother received his master's degree.
Wind howled and icy rain pelted and Brother Norbert kept writing, undistracted. He set each sheet of paper on a clipboard he has used since 1955. He made a point of slightly altering the wording in every letter, for a personal touch, though all of them ended with the same closing: ''Yours In Christ.''
Not yet two months into 2013, Brother Norbert had already gone through 200 postage stamps, which meant he was well on the way to his annual average of 600 letters. Those missives bring in about $60,000, most of it in checks for $25 or $50 or $100, which collectively supply one-fifth of the day care center's annual budget.
Brother Norbert's letters also bring letters in return from the donors. ''Continue to let me know when you are in need of help,'' wrote one. Another said, ''May God Bless You in your most important work in the coming New Year.''
The work takes place in the day care center, the sanctuary on any given day for about 60 children. Decades ago, St. Adalbert was one of 14 Catholic parishes in East St. Louis. Now, there is one. As of 1950, the city had nearly 83,000 residents and an economy thriving on stockyards and rail lines. It now has 27,000 residents, with more than 40 percent living below the federal poverty line, residing in patches of settlement separated by the kind of urban wilderness that brings to mind the Lower Ninth Ward in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.
What the hurricane did to the Lower Ninth in a few days, though, waves of race hate, industrial decline and self-inflicted violence did to East St. Louis over a century. There was the white riot in July 1917 that killed approximately 40 blacks and displaced 6,000. There was the white flight from court-ordered school integration in the 1950s. There is, in the current and nearly all-black version of East St. Louis, a murder rate 16 times the national average.
Brother Norbert has lived in East St. Louis for several periods, totaling 30 years, long enough to have witnessed the terrible trajectory. The Catholic high school where he taught during the mid-1960s, Assumption, had upward of 600 students at its height. It closed in 1989 with a graduating class of 67. The building has since been turned into a prison.
So when Brother Norbert returned to East St. Louis in 1997 for the most recent of his residences, he found the day care center barely hanging on. ''They were making it by tuition,'' he recalled. ''And they couldn't take those who couldn't pay. So I just started doing what I do.''
After decades as a teacher and administrator in Catholic schools in several states, Brother Norbert had the rudiments of a mailing list. That first year, he got eight replies with donations.
Year after year, he added more names, compiling them on graph paper left from his years teaching math. He wrote more letters and went through more stamps and started to joke that he was keeping the post office alive.
By now, the money that Brother Norbert raises is enough to pay the tuition for several dozen children at the day care center. By now, his most generous donors, like Charlie Giedeman, a retired horticulture professor, have been giving money for more than a decade. Mr. Giedeman and his wife also attend the day care center's annual Christmas show because, as he explained, ''With kids that age, you never know what's going to happen.''
On that Lenten day in late February, what was happening was a rehearsal for the children's Black History Month assembly. After finishing his half-dozen letters, Brother Norbert walked gingerly across the street to watch girls in braids and barrettes recite a poem and a boy not much larger than his trumpet mime Louis Armstrong doing ''What a Wonderful World.''
Well, perhaps. At the pinnacle of the Catholic Church, a new pope has now been installed and has spoken of serving ''the poorest, the weakest, the least important.'' At a table in a convent, beside a vacant lot on a potholed street, Brother Norbert has more letters to write.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Brother Norbert Karpfinger has witnessed the economic decline of East St. Louis, Ill. Each year, he writes hundreds of letters seeking donations for the Catholic Daycare center.
 The Catholic Daycare center in East St. Louis. Decades ago, there were 14 Catholic parishes in the city. Now, there is one. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DILIP VISHWANAT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); RELIGION (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); CHILDREN (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (67%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (67%); BUDGETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) HOLY SEE (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



760 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: In Mindfulness, a Method to Sharpen Focus and Open Minds

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
LIKE most people, I have my share of tension and anxiety. And I'm happy to find ways to cope that don't involve illegal drugs. So when the term mindfulness began cropping up everywhere, I became intrigued.
Elementary school students practice it. Doctors practice it -- and their patients. Prisoners practice it. There's mindful eating that promises a healthier way of eating. And scans show mindfulness may change the way our brains function and help us improve attention, reduce stress hormones and even bounce back faster from negative information.
But, skeptic that I am, I wondered if it was being oversold as a panacea that is simple, safe and involves no heavy objects.
First, I had to figure out what exactly it is. I had an understanding that mindfulness went hand-in-hand with meditation, but also that it was more than that. 
''Intentionally paying attention to the present nonjudgmentally'' is the way that Janice Marturano explains it. Ms. Marturano is a former deputy general counsel and vice president for public responsibility at General Mills, and helped start its Mindful Leadership Forum in 2004. She left a few years ago to start the nonprofit Institute for Mindful Leadership.
What it's not, she said, is only about reducing stress. Or about emptying our minds of all thoughts. Or about religion.
''People have the sense that mindfulness is something they can do by focusing on a raisin for five minutes,'' said Michael Baime, director of the Penn Program for Mindfulness at the University of Pennsylvania Health System. ''That is mindful practice, but it takes more than that.''
So here's what I learned about the basic techniques. First, find a quiet place to focus your attention -- on your breath or perhaps on an object. It's not deep breathing, but rather experiencing ''when the breath enters and leaves,'' Ms. Marturano said. ''Feel the stretch in the rib cage, without me doing anything. Can I notice when the mind takes a hike and redirect it? That redirection is the exercise.''
Perhaps you start at 10 minutes and work your way up to half an hour or 40 minutes a day. But that's only part of the whole practice.
There's also what Ms. Marturano calls ''purposeful pauses.'' Deciding that instead of thinking of a coming meeting while brushing your teeth you really focus on the taste of the toothpaste and the bristles and the water.
''Take yourself out of autopilot,'' she said. And eventually expand that ''being in the moment'' to other parts of your life.
The idea is that over time you'll feel more focused and more connected to yourself and others.
It sounds simple, but it's not, because it so goes against the grain of how most of us think and operate. We want to get things done, to identify and fix problems. And that's the opposite of what mindfulness is all about.
''The way it's presented in the media, people begin to believe it's a magic pill,'' said Christy Matta, author of the book ''The Stress Response'' (2012, New Harbinger Publications). ''I'll clear my mind and I'll be peaceful and stress-free. If that's what people think, they'll be disappointed.''
Rather, she said, ''it takes time and sustained practice to experience the benefits.''
And, she said, if you go into it with the idea of reducing stress, you're working against the very thing you're trying to attain, because you're aiming toward a goal.
Mindfulness, ''is about being present,'' she said. ''You have to do it just to do it. You can't strive for things.''
While being aware of your feelings may be nice when drinking a lovely cup of tea or relaxing in a garden, Ms. Matta said, part of mindfulness is also uncomfortable feelings -- not trying to change or judge them, but being aware of them. And that may not feel so pleasant.
Dr. Baime said another common misconception is that mindfulness is about learning to be happy. It's not. Nor is it about eliminating stress.
''Stress doesn't go away, ever. That's why we call it stress management rather than stress elimination,'' he said. Rather, he said, mindfulness can ''create a world where you experience depth, meaning and connectedness. You see joy and sadness more fully and settle more deeply into an authentic way of being.''
If that's a bit tough to wrap one's mind around, that's O.K. Just go with it.
Eventually, mindfulness is supposed to help us spend less time worrying about the future or fretting about the past. We'll gain perspective, listen better and step back to consider more choices and make decisions more clearly and intentionally, rather than reactively, Ms. Marturano said.
But you shouldn't assume that mindfulness is the one answer to everything.
For instance, while it has been used to good effect in classrooms, it shouldn't be used in isolation, said Linda Lantieri, director of the nonprofit group the Inner Resilience Program.
She and others have found that practicing mindfulness can increase attention and focus, and help children respond to stress in a calmer manner, but it also ''needs to be part of learning concrete emotional and social skills,'' she said.
And although it can help with anxiety and depression, you may need to augment it with other therapies or medication, Ms. Matta said.
Is mindfulness something you can learn by yourself? There are some good books that offer guidance. Ms. Matta mentioned her own, of course, and ''Full Catastrophe Living,'' (Delacorte Press, 1990) by Jon Kabat-Zinn. Professor Kabat-Zinn, founder of the Stress Reduction Clinic and the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine, Health Care and Society at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, is considered one of the foremost experts on the subject.
But everyone I spoke to said that you need to take a course and perhaps go on a retreat to fully experience and gain value from mindfulness. I realize that the people I talked to tended to teach courses, so maybe they're a little biased. But it also makes sense to me.
Ms. Marturano, who delivered a presentation on mindfulness at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January, compared it to exercise. You can watch a video of how to play tennis or read a book and perhaps even learn to play at a basic level that way. But to get better, you need a teacher.
''You're on a journey of self-discovery and you need a guide,'' she said.
Dr. Baime's institute offers eight-week courses, which cost $549, in which participants attend class for two and half hours a week and one full-day session, and are provided with textbooks and recordings to help meditation at home. The class members are asked to meditate for 40 minutes daily, although Dr. Baime acknowledged that wasn't an easy goal.
Professor Kabat-Zinn's center has a useful list to search for centers and teachers by state.
Now that I know more about the potential and limits of mindfulness, I can see it as an option. And I can see why other people are drawn to it, given that we're living in a such a fractured, information-overloaded world. We're looking so far ahead to the next thing, we miss what's going on in the present.
Mindfulness may not be the answer to every ill. But it may be the answer to some. And I'll settle for that.
E-mail: shortcuts@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Baime, center, director of a mindfulness program at Penn, during a recent class. He said mindfulness was about ''an authentic way of being.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDITATION (78%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (73%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ORAL HYGIENE (60%); LAWYERS (52%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA HEALTH SYSTEM (66%); GENERAL MILLS INC (55%)

TICKER: GIS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (66%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (55%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (55%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (55%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (55%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



761 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Low-Income Students and Elite Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As an Amherst graduate who teaches at a university that is not among the nation's most selective, I find your March 17 front-page article ''Better Colleges Failing to Lure Talented Poor'' problematic on two fronts. 
First, it reinforces the simplistic assumption (which I once held) that there are top schools and then there are the also-rans. The truth is that students of any background can -- and do -- get a top-quality education at lots of non-name-brand institutions. The fact that these schools enable low-income students to ascend to the middle class is one that we should celebrate, not qualify.
Second, discussions about college access for low-income students that focus only on high achievers overlook a bigger problem. We need to pay greater attention to how academically middle-of-the-road children who aspire to go to college can be mentored so that more of them will ultimately graduate. These children, after all, not only make up the majority of low-income college students but are also the segment most likely to drop out.
IRA SILVER Framingham, Mass., March 18, 2013
The writer is a professor of sociology at Framingham State University and author of the blog oppforall.com.
To the Editor:
As an Ivy League-educated Northerner who has taught at a less selective state university in the South for decades, I know exactly why the valedictorians in our working-class Tennessee region overwhelmingly choose my college or similar ones over a name school: You can get a top-notch education here without feeling out of place. Even if you are offered an enticing scholarship to attend Amherst or Yale, you feel disloyal if you leave when your parents need you to work.
No glossy brochure will trump the intense family ties, cultural fears and economic pressures that keep my students from moving far away. They stay here for the same reason that they are more apt to drop out here -- needing to work to support themselves and their families.
JANET BELSKY Murfreesboro, Tenn., March 17, 2013
The writer teaches developmental psychology at Middle Tennessee State University.
To the Editor:
I was surprised to see no mention of the role that high school guidance counselors can play in helping students pick the right colleges.
Certainly top universities need to work harder to recruit high-achieving low-income students, as the article points out. But if there is no contact point at the high school, how will this recruitment work? No doubt the job of guidance counselor has been eliminated at many schools in our era of budget cuts. But a good guidance counselor can make all the difference in the path a student chooses to take.
DAVID RUBIEN Dulles, Va., March 17, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); POOR POPULATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (89%); WRITERS (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); FAMILY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); PSYCHOLOGY (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



762 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Obama in the Mideast: Sampling the Reviews

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''President Urges Israelis to Push Effort for Peace'' (front page, March 22):
One can fervently hope that President Obama's visit to the Mideast will lead to a softening between the two parties, for as he said in his speech in Jerusalem, ''Just as Israelis built a state in their homeland, Palestinians have a right to be a free people in their own land.''
A dormant peace process shows signs of life. In his talking points with Mr. Obama, Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, did not explicitly cite the immediate halt of settlement construction as a precondition for resuming negotiations. 
Rather than thwarting peace talks, the settlement issue could become part of the solution if the Palestinian right of return can be intertwined with the Palestinian right to lay claim to these Israeli-built settlements once the agreed-upon parameters of a viable and contiguous two-state solution become a reality.
Settlements would no longer be an impediment to peace but rather a facilitator to a lasting peace accord built on the firm foundation of mutual compromise and mutual respect.
Facts on the ground can be changed only when the two peoples demand a change of heart from their political leaders who, as Mr. Obama so knowingly said, ''will not take risks if the people do not demand that they do.''
BARBARA ALLEN KENNEY Santa Fe, N.M., March 22, 2013
To the Editor:
President Obama's appeal to young Israelis in his speech at the Jerusalem Convention Center reflects what I have termed a ''second face of security'' strategy.
Rather than government to government, the second face of security entails one government boosting the power and position of economic and social elites, and the general public to press the leadership of the target state.
President Obama's intent is to strengthen Israelis, who have a vested stake in deepening international ties, and to enlarge the domestic base of support of political leaders so they can pursue risky peacemaking strategies.
But this strategy is also fraught with risks, including rallying hard-line nationalists and weakening moderates, who might become tarnished.
STEVEN E. LOBELL Salt Lake City, March 22, 2013
The writer, a professor of political science at the University of Utah, is co-editing a book about the political economy of regional peacemaking.
To the Editor:
Re '' 'I Speak to You as a Friend ... ' '' (editorial, March 22):
While President Obama's feel-good speech to a group of Israelis was very well received and was significant to the extent that it seemed to clear some of the air regarding his commitment to Israel's defense, it will likely accomplish as much in tangible terms as his speech to the Arab world four years ago -- nothing.
When the Oslo accords were signed nearly 20 years ago, a majority of the Israeli public was almost giddy with the prospect of finally being able to live a ''normal'' life rather than being faced with a constant threat of war and annihilation.
This momentous event was followed by the Palestinians rejecting outright with nary a counterproposal a very generous peace offer by the Israelis in the waning days of the Clinton administration that would have given them more than 90 percent of the West Bank and Gaza for a state of their own, launching a second intifada and converting Gaza into a rocket launching pad after a unilateral Israeli withdrawal.
With the Palestinian leadership still divided and in disarray, and with Hamas still refusing to recognize Israel's right even to exist, the outlook for any real progress toward peace is bleak indeed.
JERRY RAPP New York, March 22, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); WRITERS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2013



763 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: Backer of an Open Internet Steps Down as F.C.C. Chief

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
The resignation on Friday of Julius Genachowskiafter four years as chairman of the Federal Communications Commission again raises a thorny issue forPresident Obama: whether it will be possible to get the F.C.C. or Congress to help him fulfill a campaign promise to guarantee that the Internet remains free and open to businesses and users.
Mr. Genachowski, who said on Friday that he would leave the commission ''in the near future,'' pushed it in the direction of embracing rules against discrimination by Internet service providers in what content they carry or how fast they transmit it, an issue known as net neutrality.
But he has faced opposition on that front from the federal courts and some telecommunications companies, while consumer advocates have complained that Mr. Genachowski was not bold enough in his efforts. 
A law school friend of Mr. Obama and an investor in technology and telecommunication start-ups before coming to the F.C.C., Mr. Genachowski set ambitious goals during his tenure and accomplished some of them, including expanding broadband Internet service and beginning to free up additional airwaves for sale to mobile phone companies.
He also successfully opposed the proposed merger of AT&T and T-Mobile, a move that he said ''revitalized competition'' and ''led to more spectrum and more capital'' for the wireless industry. But his commission also approved the purchase of NBC Universal by Comcast, angering many consumer groups.
Mr. Genachowski announced no immediate plans, although people close to him said it was more likely he would move to a Washington research institute rather than to a telecommunications company or an industry trade group.
Thanking Mr. Genachowski for his service, Mr. Obama said he ''has brought to the Federal Communications Commission a clear focus on spurring innovation, helping our businesses compete in a global economy and helping our country attract the industries and jobs of tomorrow.''
''Because of his leadership,'' Mr. Obama added, ''we have expanded high-speed Internet access, fueled growth in the mobile sector, and continued to protect the open Internet as a platform for entrepreneurship and free speech.''
No one has emerged as a favorite for the chairmanship, although people in the industry have been talking about Tom Wheeler, a venture capitalist and former head of the wireless and cable industry trade groups, as a possible successor. Other possibilities include two previous Obama appointees: Karen Kornbluh, a former Senate aide to Mr. Obama who is now ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, and Lawrence E. Strickling, an assistant Commerce Department secretary who oversees the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.
The F.C.C. has never had a female at its head; that has led some people to expect that Mr. Obama will name Mignon Clyburn, the Democratic commissioner with the most seniority, as interim chairwoman. A White House spokeswoman declined to comment on a possible successor.
Mr. Genachowski oversaw the commission during a period of rapid change in technology, characterized by the explosion of smartphones and an increase in the speed of wireless and broadband Internet connections.
He also leaves a number of his highest priorities unfinished, if well under way, at the F.C.C. The agency is in the process of drawing up an ambitious plan to make additional high-value airwaves, or spectrum, available for sale to mobile phone companies for use in wireless broadband Internet service.
The plan hinges on the F.C.C.'s ability to get television broadcasters to voluntarily give up some of their airwaves in exchange for receiving some portion of the sale proceeds, a process known as an incentive auction.
Most broadcasters have strongly resisted that plan and an associated proposal to move stations that do not give up their airways to other frequencies on the electromagnetic spectrum. That process, known as repacking, would also vacate bands of airwaves by allowing television broadcast signals to be packed closer together.
The F.C.C. is currently reviewing public and industry comments on its plans for the incentive auction, which it hopes to conduct in 2014. Finalization of those plans will almost certainly await a new chairman, however.
The Internet has thrived over the last four years; technology and telecommunications is one sector of the economy that the recession that began in 2007 left unscathed.
The next chairman of the F.C.C., however, will face an uphill battle convincing members of Congress, backed by the strength of the telecommunications lobby, that more rules and regulations are needed for that rapidly changing part of the economy.
Consumer advocates have pushed particularly hard for net neutrality rules, which would guarantee that Internet service providers cannot give a faster channel through their pipes to their own content or products or those of a company that pays them for it. Senator Obama embraced net neutrality during his 2008 campaign.
The agency's initial rules for net neutrality, adopted before Mr. Genachowski took over, were successfully challenged in court; a second set of guidelines, known as the Open Internet Order, was put in place during his tenure but is also now the subject of a lawsuit in federal appeals court.
At the heart of the matter is a philosophical debate over whether Internet service is a utility akin to telephone service, and should be governed by the same type of open access rules, or whether Internet service is an information service subject to little or no federal regulation.
Mr. Genachowski also oversaw the conversion of an $8 billion federal program to provide telephone service to rural and low-income Americans, known as the Universal Service Fund, into one that used the same money to expand broadband Internet service. The fund has now been renamed the Connect America Fund.
As chairman, Mr. Genachowski drew criticism from both industry and consumer groups, although each also supported some of his actions.
Public Knowledge, a consumer group, said in a statement that the chairmanship was best characterized as ''one of missed opportunities.''
Gigi Sohn, president of Public Knowledge, said that the chairman deserved credit for defending the rules on data roaming, which allow smartphone users to use their phones outside their provider's service area, and for promoting unlicensed spectrum, which allows functions like Wi-Fi, television remotes and keyless automobile entry systems to function.
''But it remains to be seen whether those positive steps will mitigate the enormous consolidation that has taken place in the broadband marketplace under his watch,'' read a statement from Public Knowledge.
Several members of Congress, including Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who has been active in telecommunications legislation, praised Mr. Genachowski's tenure.
Michael Powell, a Republican who served as F.C.C. chairman under PresidentGeorge W. Bushand who now leads the National Cable and Telecommunications Association, a cable industry trade group, also praised Mr. Genachowski. ''Chairman Genachowski wisely believed that ubiquitous Internet connectivity would be the defining technology of our day,'' Mr. Powell said, ''and his leadership has ensured that America's robust wired and wireless broadband networks are world class.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Julius Genachowski, the F.C.C.'s chairman, greeted his assistant, Maria Gaglio, on Friday after announcing his plan to depart. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); BROADBAND (88%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); INTERNET SERVICE REGULATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); VENTURE CAPITAL (73%); APPROVALS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%)

COMPANY: T-MOBILE INTERNATIONAL AG (55%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (55%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JULIUS GENACHOWSKI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2013



764 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Name 5 New National Monuments

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
President Obama, who was criticized in his first term for favoring oil and gas development over land conservation, on Monday will designate five new national monuments, White House officials said on Friday.
They are the First State National Monument in Delaware and Pennsylvania, the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico, the San Juan Islands National Monument in Washington State, the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Ohio and a monument commemorating Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad in Maryland.
The new protected and historical monuments range in size from the 240,000 acres to be permanently protected in New Mexico and the 1,000 acres in the San Juan Islands to the small sites honoring Tubman and Young, the third African-American to graduate from West Point and the first to attain the rank of colonel. 
The White House and the Interior Department had no official comment on Friday.
This is the first time Mr. Obama has acted aggressively in setting aside public lands and waters for permanent protection; he has focused instead on increasing domestic conventional and renewable energy production. But in his second Inaugural Address and his recent State of the Union speech, he said he would use his executive authority to advance issues, like measures on climate change and the environment, on which Congress has refused to act.
Rick Smith, of the Coalition of National Park Service Retirees, said the president invoked his powers because Congress had failed to enact legislation creating more parks and protected sites. The last Congress was the first in more than 60 years that did not set aside any lands for protection as a national park, monument or wilderness area.
''Americans support and want more parks and monuments because they boost local economies, preserve our heritage and tell our diverse American story,'' Mr. Smith said in an e-mail. ''In particular, all Americans can be proud that with the establishment of First State National Monument in Delaware, all 50 states are now home to an area included in our National Park System.''
Mr. Obama is designating the monuments using his power under the Antiquities Act, the 1906 law that allows presidents to set aside important natural, cultural and historical sites for permanent protection. The law was first used by Theodore Roosevelt that year to protect Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming, and it has been invoked numerous times by 16 succeeding presidents.
Among the national parks and monuments designated under the Antiquities Act are Grand Canyon National Park, Statue of Liberty National Monument and Canyons of the Ancients National Monument in Colorado.
The president can designate either a national park or a monument under the Antiquities Act, but Congressional approval is needed to create a national park.
Mr. Obama created four monuments under the act in his first term: the César E. Chávez National Monument in California, the Fort Monroe National Monument in Virginia, the Fort Ord National Monument in California and the Chimney Rock National Monument in the San Juan National Forest in southwestern Colorado.
Last month, Bruce Babbitt, the interior secretary in the Clinton administration, said in a speech that Mr. Obama was falling behind many of his predecessors in setting aside lands for wilderness, while making vast tracts available for drilling.
Mr. Babbitt noted that President George Bush and President Bill Clinton protected about one acre of public land for every acre made available for hydrocarbon development. Under President George W. Bush, Mr. Babbitt said, industry claimed 7.5 acres for every acre set aside for public use, although that figure does not include the 200 million acres of marine reserve near Hawaii that Mr. Bush decided to protect at the end of his presidency, which would have given him a better ratio than any of his predecessors.
''So far under President Obama, industry has been winning the race as it obtains more and more land for oil and gas,'' Mr. Babbitt said. ''Over the past four years, the industry has leased more than 6 million acres, compared with only 2.6 million acres permanently protected.''
Although the monuments to be designated are not large enough to significantly change that balance, the move suggests that Mr. Obama may intend to use his authority in his second term to set aside more public lands for conservation, recreation and other noncommercial uses.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Among the new national monuments will be the Rio Grande del Norte National Monument and one commemorating Harriet Tubman. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GREG SORBER/ALBUQUERQUE JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ABRAMS BOOKS/LIBRARY OF CONGRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); WILDERNESS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (67%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (67%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2013



765 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Psychological Roots of Austerity

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Guilty consciences and punishing policies. 

 BODY:
Simon Wren-Lewis has a thoughtful post on the reasons for austerity mania, in which he accepts the role of special interests but argues that there are also psychological roots. Specifically, he suggests that politicians know that they are often irresponsible, and 
when the market starts to punish fiscal profligacy, it is as if a parent has discovered the child's guilty secret. (The market is seen by many as a mysterious deity.) The politician wants to repent (or at least be seen to repent), and atone for past sins. After eating too many pastries, we go on a crash diet. After deficit bias, we have austerity.
His analysis had me thinking about President Obama's first inaugural, and my (lonely) upset reaction:
In response to an unprecedented economic crisis - or, more accurately, a crisis whose only real precedent is the Great Depression - Mr. Obama did what people in Washington do when they want to sound serious: he spoke, more or less in the abstract, of the need to make hard choices and stand up to special interests.
That's not enough. In fact, it's not even right. 
Looking back, I think we can see the austerian temptation even there, literally in the first hour of the new administration. Since then Obama has veered back and forth between reasonable Keynesianism and acceptance of deficit fetishism, but if even he, even then, was pulled in by the emotional tug of austerity, you can see why good macroeconomics has had so little impact on policy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); DIETING (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



766 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2101 words

HEADLINE: 'Another Name for Death'

BYLINE: NICOLE ETCHESON


HIGHLIGHT: WIlliam Clarke Quantrill, the most feared bushwhacker of the Civil War. 

 BODY:
In the winter of 1862-3, William Clarke Quantrill traveled from Missouri to Richmond, Va., to request a colonelcy from Confederate Secretary of War James A. Seddon. Normally, men fighting for the Confederacy wouldn't have had to make such a trip, or had the temerity to do so. But Quantrill was no ordinary soldier. He made his request under the provisions of the Partisan Ranger Act, passed by the Confederate Congress in 1862 to organize and promote unconventional warfare along the western border. When Seddon asked Quantrill's opinions about the war, Quantrill replied, in the florid rendering of the Confederate sympathizer John N. Edwards, one of his biographers, "I would wage such a war ... as to make surrender forever impossible. I would cover the armies of the Confederacy all over with blood. ... I would exterminate." 
Although we think of the Civil War as fought by armies, the historian Daniel E. Sutherland has recently reminded us that it was also marked by extensive guerrilla warfare that spread throughout the Confederacy and into Northern border areas. Such fighting occurred first and most virulently in Missouri. Another historian, Matthew C. Hulbert, calls the guerrilla war in Missouri "hyper-violent," making it a "uniquely different wartime experience" from that of ordinary soldiers. Even the name given to the guerrillas, "bushwhackers," carried connotations of a different kind of fighting - attacks from ambush. Indeed, Hulbert argues that Quantrill's biographer "concocted" the exchange between his subject and Seddon in part "to legitimize the brutality" of the Missouri guerrillas.
Proslavery Missourians had been fighting with territorial Kansas' free-state settlers since the 1850s. Missouri, a border state, was deeply divided between Unionists and Confederates, a factor that historians generally dwell on in explaining the irregular war that erupted there. But there may have been a more quotidian motivation for many of the bushwhackers: money. 
The historian Mark Geiger links the rise of bushwhacking to a failed scheme by Missouri Confederates to finance their rebellion against the state's Unionist government; when the rebellion collapsed, many of its members - drawn largely from Missouri's well-off, slave-owning class - were left with enormous debts. The core of Quantrill's band, for example, was made up of young Missourians from Jackson County, which had both a large number of slave plantations and a large number of debtors. These youths may have found themselves in economically threatened families with little to lose by taking to the bush. 
Geiger's research gives substance to the observation that the guerrillas came from good families and had been peaceful, law-abiding citizens before the war. Mark Twain remembered his astonishment when a boyhood friend who was an "uncommonly sweet and gentle boy" became a "remorseless" bushwhacker during the war.
This did not, however, characterize Quantrill himself. Although he later told Missourians that he was a Southerner, he was actually born in Ohio and did not migrate to Kansas Territory until he was 19. After periods teaching school and doing farm work, Quantrill went to Utah as a teamster during the Mormon War, and even prospected for gold in Colorado. It was perhaps as a teamster during the trek to Utah, working alongside Southerners, that he became pro-Southern. 
Upon returning to the border region, he stole cattle and horses as part of a small band of Kansas men. At the end of 1860, Quantrill proposed that they liberate slaves on the Missouri farm of Morgan Walker. But Quantrill tipped off the Walker family about the planned attack and led his own men into an ambush. He explained this double cross to Walker and other Missourians by inventing the story of a brother who had been murdered by Kansas free-staters.
After the firing on Fort Sumter, Quantrill fell in with a band of Cherokee in Missouri who served under the Confederate general Benjamin McCulloch. When McCulloch retreated into Arkansas after the Battle of Wilson's Creek in August 1861, Quantrill stayed with the Confederate force in Missouri under Gen. Sterling Price. When Price, too, began a retreat, Quantrill left the army and returned to Jackson County. 
But he didn't stay away from the fighting for long. During the following winter, Quantrill became the leader of a group of Jackson County men resisting the incursions of Kansas troops. One of his biographers, Edward E. Leslie, believes that Quantrill saw himself as a regular Confederate soldier, one who "kept promises he made to the enemy, accepted surrender, granted paroles, tried to exchange prisoners, and made certain that none of his men ever raped or assaulted a woman." Federal authorities, however, disagreed. They viewed Quantrill and his men as irregulars who robbed the mail, stole horses and committed other "outrages." This was an important distinction: the punishments for irregulars were, perforce, much more severe than for regular soldiers.
In March 1862, Quantrill's band attacked Aubry, Kan., looting the town and killing five men. The killing of civilians caused Maj. Gen. Henry W. Halleck, commander of the Department of the Missouri, to issue a proclamation that guerrillas would not be treated as prisoners of war "but will be hung as robbers and murderers." 
Unaware of Halleck's proclamation, Quantrill and his band attacked the federal garrison at Liberty, Mo. The bushwhackers mounted further attacks, including the capture of a steamboat, the Little Blue. In August, Quantrill's forces even raided Independence, Mo., inflicting significant casualties on the Union troops stationed there and panicking the entire border region. 
Less than a month later, the guerrillas rounded up all the men in Olathe, Kan. - soldiers and civilians - and put them in a corral. The bushwhackers looted the town, but Quantrill had agreed not to harm the people if they surrendered. 
Although many Confederates disdained guerrilla warfare as un-Christian and savage, guerrillas aided the Confederate war effort by pinning down large numbers of Union troops and disrupting Union transportation and supplies. The government in Richmond clearly saw their advantage: on April 28, 1862, the Confederate Congress passed the Partisan Ranger Act, which regulated the guerrilla bands that had sprung up in areas between Confederate and Union territory. (The guerrillas preferred the term partisan, which harked back to revolutionary era militias; bushwhacker was a more derogatory term, connoting a sneak attack.) The Partisan Ranger Act allowed guerrilla bands to be commissioned and brought under the official aegis of the Confederate Army. In return, the partisan bands were to abide by the rules that applied to the regular army. 
The act wasn't without its critics, even inside the Confederacy. Some felt that the partisan rangers hurt recruiting, as Southern men preferred such bands' looser discipline and greater independence. In addition, partisans were seen as more likely to commit depredations than were regular troops. Secretary of War Seddon would have preferred to incorporate the partisans as troops in the regular army. But he also recognized that the Partisan Ranger Act was a way to harness the irregular forces already in existence to the service of the Confederacy. Others did, too: in Missouri, Gen. Thomas C. Hindman issued orders allowing the enrollment of guerrillas into his forces. Although frightened civilians sometimes reported Quantrill's band as having 1,000 members, on Aug. 15, 1862, Hindman mustered Quantrill and 120 men into the Confederate service as Partisan Rangers. 
For the Union, the distinction between partisan and guerrilla was irrelevant. From the earliest days of the war, Union commanders in Missouri had struggled to suppress the guerrillas, assessing financial penalties on civilians for any damage done. During his controversial tenure in command in Missouri, Gen. John C. Frémont ordered the execution, after court-martial, of persons in arms against the United States. 
Of course, the guerrillas naturally vowed retaliation. When Union forces executed one of Quantrill's men, Perry Hoy, Quantrill responded by ordering his men to shoot one of their captives, Levi Copeland, a lieutenant in the Missouri State Militia, whom Quantrill had hoped to exchange for Hoy. 
The winter of 1863, which denuded the foliage that provided concealment to the bushwhackers, did more to disperse the guerrillas than did the Union troops, prompting Quantrill to lead his men to Arkansas. There they served as scouts for Confederate cavalry under Joseph O. Shelby. Quantrill himself set out for Richmond, where he had his interview with the secretary of war. He did not receive a colonelcy; when he returned to Missouri in the spring, he signed his name with the rank of captain. 
His men also had begun drifting back from Arkansas. The spring foliage provided cover in their familiar haunts and grazing for their horses. By the time Quantrill returned, he had become a legend, and was even celebrated in songs that threatened: "We'll ride through their ranks and bathe in their gore/Smite down the oppressor and humble the proud/Few shall escape us and few shall be spared/for keen is our saber, in vengeance 'tis bared;/For none are so strong, so might in fight/As the warrior who battles for our Southern right." His biographer Edwards has a captured Union soldier exclaim, "Why Quantrell is but another name for death." 
Edwards's narrative is one of ingenious disguises, pitched battles fought with deadly aim and hair-breadth escapes by men who knew that they fought under the "black flag." The guerrillas may have indeed begun with the intent of protecting their homes, which explained their particular animosity toward Kansas, as the first Unionist incursions into Missouri came from that state - Quantrill supposedly recommended to Seddon that "Kansas should be laid waste at once" - but a cycle of revenge and retaliation was soon established. The historian Michael Fellman writes that the guerrillas saw themselves as "blood avengers for their brothers and comrades and civilian supporters killed by the Federals." The 22-year-old guerrilla leader Willard Francis Hadly said, when he was executed in May 1864, "I went into the war to be a terror to the Feds. ... I thought the South had her rights trampled upon. I am now sentenced to be shot. But I feel that I have been fully revenged."
Civilians, too, were caught up in the terror of guerrilla war. Friendly farmers provided food and supplies. Women also helped supply their male relatives in the bush, including stitching the elaborate guerrilla shirts some of them wore. When Union commanders retaliated against civilians for aiding the guerrillas, they did not exclude women, whom they recognized as crucial to the guerrillas' supply network. 
Unionist civilians likewise frequently found themselves a partisan target. Bushwhackers might shoot an unarmed farmer despite his wife's pleadings, or they might show mercy. Neighbors might settle a grudge by telling the guerrillas that someone was a Union sympathizer. Victims often refused even to identify guerrillas they recognized, for fear of savage reprisals. Brig. Gen. Clinton B. Fisk created his own version of the Golden Rule for Missouri: "There is scarcely a citizen in the county but wants to kill someone of his neighbors for fear that said neighbor may kill him." 
By the spring of 1863, however, Quantrill and his men wanted revenge, not just against Federal troops or Unionist civilians in Missouri, but against the free-staters in Kansas. Quantrill's fictional vendetta had been to revenge his mythical brother's death by Kansans. But his men had more tangible reasons to hate Kansas: it was to Kansas that Missouri slaves escaped, and it was from Kansas that jayhawkers had invaded Missouri at the war's outset. Edwards captured this rage when he wrote that "to spare a Kansas man was to offend the God of a Guerrilla." In his supposed interview with Seddon, Quantrill recommended, "Kansas should be laid waste at once." Edwards may have invented the words, but not the intent. When Quantrill returned to the border in the spring of 1863, his bloodiest days lay ahead.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Nicole Etcheson is a professor of history at Ball State University and the author of the prize-winning "A Generation at War: The Civil War Era in a Northern Community." 

        
Exploding Kansas
        
Jennison's Jayhawkers
        
James Lane's Revenge
        
Free to Fight
        
The First Emancipation Proclamation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HISTORY (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); ARMED FORCES (69%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); Civilian Casualties; Kansas; Missouri; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%) MISSOURI, USA (98%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) Kansas; Missouri

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



767 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: March 23

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Cyprus partly approves a formula to obtain a bailout; Israel apologizes to Turkey; the writer Chinua Achebe dies; cargo ships in trouble; and the Malaysian Grand Prix. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Lawmakers in Cyprus took steps late Friday to revise a formula for obtaining a bailout of the country's banks but faced strong signals that the plan would not pass muster with international lenders. The Parliament put off until later this weekend a vote on a crucial new proposal that would confiscate 22 to 25 percent of uninsured deposits above (EURO)100,000 through a new tax on account holders in one of the nation's most troubled banks. Liz Alderman reports from Nicosia.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Friday apologized in a personal phone call to Turkey's prime minister for a deadly commando raid on a Turkish ship in 2010, in a sudden reconciliation between the two countries that was partly brokered by President Obama during his visit to Israel this week, according to Israeli, Turkish and American officials. Mark Landler and Jodi Rudoren report from Amman. 
As a picture of chaos and anarchy emerged from a city in central Myanmar on Friday, President Thein Sein declared a state of emergency in the area and ordered the military to assist in quelling rioting that residents say has left at least 20 people dead. Thomas Fuller reports from Bangkok.
Chinua Achebe, the Nigerian author and towering man of letters whose internationally acclaimed fiction sought to revive African literature and rewrite the story of the continent that had long been told by Western voices, died on Thursday in Boston. Jonathan Kandell reports.
The increase in sexual assaults over the past two years and the ensuing battle over who is to blame has become a stark and painful illustration of the convulsions racking Egypt as it tries to reinvent itself after the toppling of the police state. Mayy El Sheikh and David D. Kirkpatrick report from Cairo.
President Xi Jinping of China arrived in Moscow on Friday for his first trip abroad as his country's top leader, using talks with his counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin, to promote deeper cooperation with Russia while the United States has been shoring up ties with its own allies across the Asia-Pacific region. David M. Herszenhorn reports from Moscow, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong.
Former President Nicolas Sarkozy fought back hard on Friday through his lawyer and his political allies after he was formally placed under investigation on charges of exploiting the frailty of France's richest woman to secure financing for his 2007 campaign. Steven Erlanger and Scott Sayare report from Paris.
A month after national elections failed to yield a clear result, President Giorgio Napolitano of Italy on Friday asked the leader of the Democratic Party to try to form a government, but only if he meets the challenge of mustering a strong enough majority to govern. Rachel Donadio reports from Rome.
A glut of ships and slack demand for shipping in the weak global economy have reduced the value of cargo ships. According to some estimates, as many as half the cargo carriers on the high seas today may no longer be worth as much as the debt they carry - putting them underwater, in financial jargon. Jack Ewing reports from Frankfurt.
 ARTS If any event gives some idea of where the art market is heading, it is the European Fine Art Fair, which closes Sunday in Maastricht. Souren Melikian reports from Maastricht, the Netherlands.
 SPORTS The Malaysia Grand Prix outside Kuala Lumpur on Sunday may only be the second race of the 2013 season, but much of the technical talk in the paddock during the winter and at the first race in Australia last week concerned the 2014 season. That's because a major overhaul of the technical regulations next year will radically change the Formula One cars. Brad Spurgeon reports.
David Douglas Duncan, 97, is one of the world's most influential photographers and photojournalists. He's also a longtime fan of Formula One racing and has completed a book about the Monaco Grand Prix, based on photographs of a television broadcast of the race that he took while recovering from a broken hip. Brad Spurgeon reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WRITERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FOREIGN LENDING (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LITERATURE (70%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (69%); RIOTS (67%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); LAWYERS (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: XI JINPING (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (57%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (55%); THEIN SEIN (55%); GIORGIO NAPOLITANO (53%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) TURKEY (94%); CYPRUS (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MALAYSIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); FRANCE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); MYANMAR (79%); CHINA (79%); ITALY (79%); NIGERIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2013



768 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: March 23, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Obama Has Lost Advantage Over G.O.P. on Economy

BYLINE: MICAH COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: During the debate over the so-called fiscal cliff in December, public opinion surveys showed that more Americans trusted President Obama than trusted Congressional Republicans when it came to handling the economy. Not anymore. 

 BODY:
During the debate over the so-called fiscal cliff in December, public opinion surveys showed more Americans trusted President Obama than trusted Republicans in Congress when it came to handling the nation's economy. The New Year's Day deal to avoid going over the cliff, which included higher marginal tax rates on high earners - something Mr. Obama had campaigned on and lobbied for - was largely seen as a victory for the president.
But with more budget battles approaching, over raising the nation's borrowing limit and perhaps reaching a grand bargain, Mr. Obama's advantage over Congressional Republicans has all but vanished. Public approval of his handling of the economy has slipped, according to polls, and surveys now show that a roughly equal number of Americans favor Mr. Obama as favor Congressional Republicans on economic matters. 
In December 2012 and January 2013, polls found that roughly half of Americans had more faith in Mr. Obama's economic stewardship, while just over a third of respondents said they had more faith in the economic stewardship of Congressional Republicans. Since December, however, Mr. Obama's standing has declined by roughly 10 percentage points, while Republicans in Congress have gained 4 or 5 percentage points.
Other pollsters, asking slightly different questions, have also found that the White House and Congressional Republicans are now on more equal fiscal footing. A Fox News poll conducted this week found when "it comes to handling the budget deficit," 44 percent of registered voters agreed more with Mr. Obama, while 41 percent agreed more with Republicans.
A CNN poll conducted March 15 to 17 found that respondents were split in whom they preferred on handling of "the federal budget and the way the government raises and spends money," 47 percent for Mr. Obama and 46 percent for Republicans.
The CNN poll had another worrying number for Mr. Obama. The last time a government shutdown was in the news, in September 2011, CNN found that 47 percent of respondents thought Republicans in Congress would be more responsible for a shutdown if it occurred. Just one-third of respondents said Mr. Obama would be to blame. 
But CNN asked the question again in its mid-March survey and found that Mr. Obama's advantage was gone; 40 percent of respondents said they would blame Congressional Republicans for a government shutdown and 38 percent said they would blame Mr. Obama. (Threat of a near-term government shutdown was averted after the House of Representatives passed a stopgap bill financing the government through the end of the fiscal year.)
Mr. Obama's approval ratings on his handling of the economy over all have also dropped since their high-water mark in December and early January. 
It is not clear what is causing the decline, but it doesn't seem to be the actual economy. There are increasing signs that the recovery is accelerating. Recent reports on jobs and housing have been unexpectedly strong. And all the while, the stock market has been bullish.
In addition, Gallup's consumer confidence index has improved, albeit in fits and starts. And other polls on the economy show that public sentiment is not great, but it hasn't degraded in recent months. 
One theory holds that the fight over the automatic budget cuts contained in sequestration hurt Mr. Obama. Some political observers contend that the Obama administration overplayed its hand in the run-up to March 1, when the cuts began to go into effect.
Of course, the dip in Mr. Obama's approval ratings on the economy might simply be a reflection of an overall dip in Mr. Obama's popularity after a postelection bounce. The president's job approval ratings improved after he won re-election, but that postelection honeymoon appears to be ending (a bounce is, by definition, ephemeral). According to the RealClearPolitics average, Mr. Obama's net job approval is just 1 percentage point (48 percent approve and 47 percent disapprove). That's down from a high in mid-December of plus 12 percentage points (54 percent approved and 42 percent disapproved).
Just as his overall job approval appears to be falling back to where it hovered for most of 2012, public approval of Mr. Obama's economic stewardship may simply be regressing toward the mean. Polls testing the public's trust in Mr. Obama and Congressional Republicans on economic issues are largely back to where they were for much of 2011 and 2012.
As a result - unless the polls shift again - neither Mr. Obama nor Congressional Republicans will be able to count on having a significant advantage in public support in upcoming budget fights. 

        
For Second-Term Presidents, a Shorter Honeymoon
        
Among G.O.P. Voters, Little Support for Same-Sex Marriage
        
Is It Too Early for 2016 Polls?
        
Signs of a Shift on Immigration Among G.O.P. Rank-and-File
        
What Does Public Support in Obama's Second Inaugural Speech?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (96%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPROVALS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%) approval ratings; Congress; economy; polls; President Obama; Republicans; Politics; Polling

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2013



769 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths WOOL, HAROLD

 BODY:
WOOL--Harold, a gentleman and a scholar to the final days of a very full life, died on March 20th at age 96 in Tinton Falls, NJ. An accomplished labor economist and an avid tennis player, he will be greatly missed by his wife Helen of 16 years, three daughters from his wife Muriel (deceased), four grandchildren, and all his extended family. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (85%); ATHLETES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



770 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; CIRCA NOW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: When 'What Do You Do?' Is Taboo

BYLINE: By HENRY ALFORD. 
Henry Alford is a contributing writer to Vanity Fair and the author, most recently, of ''Would It Kill You to Stop Doing That? A Modern Guide to Manners.'' Circa Now appears monthly.

 BODY:
TALKING TO UNEMPLOYED friends and colleagues requires a certain delicacy. The question ''How was your day?,'' when leveled with what is perceived as an undue amount of concern, can cause steam to emerge from ears. Robert Reich, the secretary of labor under President Clinton, said, ''I don't ask 'What are you doing with yourself these days?' or 'How's the job search coming?' unless it's a good friend. I wait for him to bring it up. Being jobless is distressing enough without people asking about it.''
Some of us display a lack of empathy -- we ask once too often about job prospects, or we introduce our friend to other people by saying, ''Gina was a math teacher.'' Others of us have empathy, but it's an empathy out of Jane Austen's ''Emma'' -- we try to hook up former executives with entry-level jobs, or we invite out-of-work friends to dinner and then order a $120 bottle of wine. 
Indeed, even certain words of encouragement can sometimes sound wrong to an ear attuned to a new frequency. Carmen Morales, an Orlando-based stand-up comic who collected unemployment for a year and a half five years ago, said: ''People who say 'Do what you love' or 'God has a plan for you'? It's borderline insulting. Really, it was God's plan for me to move back with my parents at age 30? I'd like to talk to God about this plan. 'Cause I'm not so sure.''
Ms. Morales said that, in the depths of her joblessness, her friends tendered that most complicated of all offerings, money. ''I'm very prideful, so I didn't take it,'' she said. ''But I think you should take it, just so people learn not to give their money away. Because once those people are unemployed, I'm not giving the money back! This is not a return on investment.''
The waves have only been made choppier by the fact that the country's unemployment rate of 7.7 percent has been compounded by various recent and much-publicized examples of supposed early or temporary retirement -- hello, Hillary Rodham Clinton, Steven Soderbergh, Leonardo DiCaprio and Pope Benedict. Is the preternaturally tanned gentleman who's always at the gym at 3 p.m. a casualty of the work force, or has he simply embraced the elasticized waistband lifestyle? What did your friend who was recently let go from Pfizer mean when she said: ''Call me! Anytime after 11 a.m. is usually safe.''?
For the last three years, Miki Yamashita juggled her work as an executive assistant at a top investment bank in Los Angeles with her career as an actress. Laid off in January as part of a companywide staff reduction, she decided she had enough savings to pursue acting and writing full time. However, Ms. Yamashita is now bombarded daily by recruiters wanting to place her at another bank. Moreover, she said, ''My nonartist friends regularly ask me if I'm pounding the pavement looking for another 'real' job.''
Asked what advice she has gleaned from her experience, Ms. Yamashita said, ''Don't assume that, if at his last job your friend was a quality inspector at an anchovy canning facility, that he is combing Monster.com all day long looking for job openings wherever salty fish are jammed into containers. Maybe he wants to sell his burlap afghans on Etsy now.''
Since last summer, the lapses of decorum that are regularly dealt the jobless have been popping up on Gawker.com. The site has been running a series of letters from unemployed people called ''Hello From the Underclass.'' One correspondent wrote of how, during her online job searches, the targeted ads on her Web browser changed from helpful vocational prompts to diaper ads. Another individual, let go from a nonprofit organization, wrote, ''I even had one person tell me that I was in a better position than they were in because I didn't have to deal with the stress of the office.'' It seems that when you live in a world in which friends stop calling you because they think you're a downer, a world in which potential employers don't even bother to let you know that the job you interviewed for has been filled, you encounter static in even the most unlikely instances. A former police officer pursuing a master's degree wrote on Gawker.com: ''And you know what doesn't help? Being told it will get better.''
Another bit of politesse that can misfire is the question ''How do you spend your time?'' Usually asked by a stranger who's hoping to sidestep the awkwardness that can ensue when ''What do you do?'' is asked instead, asking someone how he spends his time strikes some ears as tortured. ''No. We're grown-ups. We do things now,'' said James Davis, a comedian and Barack Obama impersonator who appears regularly on ''Chelsea Lately.'' ''If you can't answer 'What do you do?,' then you don't have a passion. You're just floating from drive-through to drive-through.''
In the end, though, the most difficult conversation you can have with an unemployed person is a conversation you can't have with him. Tom O'Leary, a filmmaker in Los Angeles, has a lifelong friend who, unemployed and increasingly depressed for three years now, has mostly given up on the idea of securing full-time employment. Because the friend is now homeless and living in his car, Mr. O'Leary allows him to stay in his apartment whenever Mr. O'Leary is out of town. ''I can't imagine how heartbreaking it is to live in your car and feel totally forgotten and invisible in the world.''
The problem is, the friend is a bit of a slob. Mr. O'Leary said: ''I have to Windex the counters and wash the tile floors as soon as I return home. He's a big guy, and I think the floor is too far away from his field of vision to see that it's not clean. When he uses the toilet, his aim is undependable, to say the least.''
Mr. O'Leary has talked to his friend about his domestic shortcomings, but the friend's course corrections cannot be described as miraculous. But what Mr. O'Leary cannot see fit to utter is an ultimatum. To draw a line in the sand would be potentially to alter forever a close bond that has been long in the making.
We all hope that life's give/get ratio is a zero sum equation, but sometimes the math goes soft on us. Sometimes more is asked of us. Indeed, maybe Mr. O'Leary's efforts are a small tax he pays on the property of friendship. His friend has turned into a chicken, but Mr. O'Leary still needs the eggs.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT HUYNH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (50%)

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (50%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (50%); PFEB (BRU) (50%); PFE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); LEONARDO DICAPRIO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



771 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: For Photographers, Competition Gets Fierce

BYLINE: By CAREN CHESLER

 BODY:
For professional photographers, advancements in technology pose an interesting predicament. Camera innovations have enabled them to take better photos, but it's lowered the barrier to entry by competitors.
''You get that instant feedback with a digital camera,'' said Chad Redling, 30, a part-time wedding photographer in Rochester who was recently laid off from his job as a computer programmer and is now considering doing photography full time. ''It shortens the learning curve.'' He's hardly alone. With unemployment still high, a lot of people, women in particular, are taking their fancy digital cameras and booking jobs shooting weddings, leading some long-established wedding photographers to brand them as ''mamarazzis'' or ''digital debbies.''
Speaking about the broad availability of high-quality cameras, Michelle Nacca, who publishes The Greater Rochester Bride & Groom, a Web site and wedding guide in upstate New York, said, ''The technology has gotten awesome, and they're easy to use, so a lot of people are picking up a camera these days and thinking, 'I can do this.' '' 
With little or no overhead, like the cost of studios, staff, backdrops and editing equipment, they can easily undercut the fees sought by professional photographers by $1,000, said Owen Kassimir, 52, the president of the Professional Photographers' Society of New York State and a wedding photographer in Syosset, N.Y. Quality has become secondary, he said, noting that the arrival of smartphones is partly to blame. ''All people need is for the photo to be 'good enough.' ''
Other veteran photographers contend that the newcomers do little more than take action shots, like photojournalists, while shying away from portraits. Portraiture, they claim, requires someone with a real understanding of the subtleties of lighting. But by clicking away, the laws of probability enable novices to wind up with some decent shots.
It also doesn't help that most people don't want photo albums anymore. Like alcohol sales for restaurants, albums were a high-margin piece of the package, with photographers charging about three times what it cost to produce them. Now, brides just want the photo disc -- and the copyrights to their photos.
Some might reasonably argue that the introduction of new technologies has always resulted in a softening of prices and a lowering of the bars to entry across any number of fields. Wedding photography is no different, and those working in the field find themselves adjusting or leaving.
Daryn Backal, 49, did a little of both. He said he once had a thriving wedding photography business in Victor, N.Y., charging $3,000 to $5,000 a wedding and bringing in about $90,000 a year. But as some new faces joined the field, charging less than $1,000, he said he saw his revenues drop to around $60,000 a year. So he moved his business to Orlando, Fla. By doing that and by working a longer, warmer wedding season, he was able to recoup some of these declines. He also got rid of his studio and cut the amount of time he worked at a wedding in half.
''I'm earning about $230 an hour,'' Mr. Backal said. ''That's about what an attorney makes. And all I have to do is burn a disc and give it to the bride and I'm done. You can make money in this industry. You just have to cut your costs.''
CAREN CHESLER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (93%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (92%); PHOTOGRAPHY (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



772 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: How About a Little Luxury?

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
From tailfinned Cadillacs of the 1950s to three-ton S.U.V.'s at the turn of the century, luxury vehicles have always pushed the limits of size and mass.
Now it's happening again, but in the opposite direction: automakers are whipping up bite-size luxury models, confident that Americans are finally seeing the upside of small, yet artful, portions.
These cars also spotlight a new kind of status, a less-is-more mentality that's taking root in everything from food to fashion. Small, yet relatively precious, with prices of roughly $30,000 to $50,000, these models suggest that their owners could afford to buy a bigger car -- but choose not to.
For S.U.V.'s, especially, the old question of ''how big can they go,'' is undergoing a 180-degree switch. Hummer-size entries are barely on the table. Instead, fuel-efficient crossovers like the BMW X1, Buick Encore and Mini Countryman are creating a niche that, not long ago, would have seemed too inconsequential for carmakers and consumers to bother with. 
Tall-riding and squat, shaped a bit like petite hiking boots, these entries are one size smaller than compact crossovers -- think of the Audi Q5, BMW X3 or Volvo XC60 -- that themselves seemed a novelty only a decade ago. Yet those compact haulers quickly became the fastest-growing part of the luxury market.
The Encore is the antithesis of the traditional battleship-size Buick. Lincoln hopes its coming MKC, a luxury crossover utility based on the Ford Escape, can help to reverse its slump.
Audi's Q3 crossover, about two inches shorter than a Honda Civic, is coming to America, perhaps next year. Porsche recently hired 1,000 workers in Leipzig, Germany, to build the Macan, a downsized S.U.V. that goes on sale early next year.
And for 2015, Mercedes-Benz is prepping a crossover, tentatively called the GLA, that would match up against the X1 and Q3.
Automakers are also experimenting with shrunken sedans.
Jim Hall, managing director of 2953 Analytics, an auto industry consulting firm in Birmingham, Mich., says that as ''compact'' models have grown larger and more expensive -- including the BMW 3 Series, Mercedes C-Class and Audi A4 -- many consumers are eager for smaller and relatively more affordable models.
A stylish example is the Mercedes CLA, due to go on sale this fall at a come-hither starting price of $30,825 (including the mandatory $925 delivery charge). That Civic-size sedan is powered by a turbocharged 2-liter 4-cylinder engine producing 208 horsepower.
In decades past, luxury compacts were often perceived -- rightly, in many cases -- as a bait-and-switch. Most notoriously, for 1982 Cadillac slapped leather trim and alloy wheels on a Chevrolet Cavalier economy car and called it the ''Cimarron by Cadillac.'' Instead of seeing the Cimarron as automotive royalty, critics and consumers called for its head.
A few years later, Mercedes loyalists were unimpressed by the 190, a compact sedan that came to be dismissed as a ''poor man's Mercedes.'' A later attempt to sell Americans on a small Mercedes hatchback, the C230, also fell flat.
But more recently, European automakers established beachheads with small sport sedans like the 3 Series, C-Class and A4, turning them into best sellers and profit centers. Even Cadillac has made amends with its 2013 ATS sedan, its first small car since the Cimarron and an impressive 3 Series fighter.
The Mini Cooper deserves some credit for changing perceptions of what a small car can be -- and how much the public is willing to pay for one.
BMW's 2002 redesign of the legendary, fuel-sipping, rally-winning Mini -- originally introduced to England in 1959 for about $800 -- wasn't a luxury car per se. Yet it represented a new way of thinking, at least for Americans who stereotyped tiny cars as being cheap, dull, unreliable or unsafe. The reborn Mini was fashionable and fun to drive, and it was hardly inexpensive; checking off some of the many BMW-bred options could kick the price to $30,000 and more.
In the Mini's wake, automakers are following its high-design formula, said Jeff Schuster, senior vice president for forecasting at LMC Automotive, a research firm. In contrast with the past, he said, ''These aren't dumbed-down luxury vehicles that try to fool you'' with a designer name.
The pint-size brigade also dovetails nicely with the psychology of post-recession consumers. ''Buyers are coming back in, but they're feeling a little more frugal than before,'' Mr. Schuster said. ''With these models, they can still aspire to a premium vehicle with the features they want.''
Early next year, Audi will offer a redesigned A3 -- now a sedan, like the Mercedes CLA, rather than a hatchback. While Lexus offers a luxury hatch, the CT 200h hybrid, European brands pointedly continue to leave high-end hatchbacks at home.
Mr. Hall noted that America's introduction to hatchbacks did not go well, with poorly executed small cars like the Ford Pinto and Chevrolet Chevette. And the image of hatchbacks as budget bottom-feeders has persisted.
In Europe, Mr. Hall said, single-car households prize hatchbacks for their versatility. In the United States, crossovers ably fill the role of family hauler, often as the second car in the family.
''Hatchbacks are great if you need one car to do multiple things, but we're not a nation of one-car, small-parking-space families,'' Mr. Hall added.
An Audi spokesman, Mark Dahncke, acknowledged that Americans greatly prefer sedans. But he said that Audi management might eventually add an A3 hatch to the lineup, perhaps with fuel-saving versions like the TDI diesel or a plug-in hybrid.
Mr. Hall added that such environmental imperatives, and not simply consumer tastes, were driving the downsizing. Mercedes and other brands face challenging targets for mileage and carbon-dioxide emissions.
Small cars, of course, are ideally suited to alternative-fuel powertrains. At the New York auto show this week, BMW will display its Concept Active Tourer, a front-drive hatchback that will combine a 3-cylinder gasoline engine with plug-in electric assist to achieve nearly 95 miles per gallon.
Another BMW plug-in, the i3, a city car built on a featherweight carbon-fiber chassis, is to go on sale late this year. Analysts expect a price of roughly $45,000.
But some models with luxury nameplates, like the Mercedes CLA, are actually priced below fully equipped versions of Honda Accords and other midsize family sedans, creating an interesting quandary for buyers. ''Do I want the larger, loaded vehicle, or one with a premium badge?'' Mr. Schuster said.
For now, LMC Automotive is lumping the crossover squirts into a ''small C.U.V.'' segment (for crossover utility vehicle), distinct from larger ''compact'' crossovers. But the research firm plans to officially begin tracking sales in this expanding class.
''It's really a new category, and it's taking on a life of its own,'' Mr. Schuster said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRYSLER GROUP)
JUNIOR LEAGUE: The compact Mercedes-Benz CLA sedan, above, will be displayed this week at the New York auto show. Other vehicles with small footprints and big aspirations include, below from left, the Range Rover Evoque, the Lincoln MKC and the BMW i3 concept. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MERCEDES-BENZ USA
JAGUAR LAND ROVER
CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS
CHIP EAST/REUTERS) (AU1)
 FORWARD LOOKING: The BMW Concept Active Tourer hints at the small front-wheel-drive BMWs that are still in the design stage. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHE ENA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



773 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Loans for a Niche Market

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
If interest-only loans were issued too freely before the foreclosure crisis, their availability now is restricted to a privileged few.
A staple of the jumbo market, interest-only loans continue to be used by affluent borrowers to help them manage irregular cash flow, reap a tax benefit, or free up cash for investment elsewhere.
In particular, people in the financial services industry who derive most of their compensation from yearly bonuses commonly rely on interest-only loans to keep their mortgage payments manageable the rest of the year. ''Then they take some of that bonus and pay down their mortgage each year,'' said David Adamo, the chief executive of Luxury Mortgage in Stamford, Conn. ''And their monthly payment then also goes down.'' 
Thus, interest-only loans have evolved into a financial tool, and no longer a means to affordability.
Freddie Mac stopped backing the loans in 2010 after suffering big losses; as a result, fewer lenders offer them. Those that do have strict qualifying standards. Lenders generally require that the borrower have at least 30 percent equity in a property, and a minimum FICO score of 720. Determination of ability to pay back the loan is based on the fully amortized payment, not the interest-only payment.
Additionally, ''a lot of lenders will want to see assets to cover as many as 24 months' worth of principal, taxes and insurance payments,'' said Richard Pisnoy, a principal of Silver Fin Capital, a brokerage in Great Neck, N.Y.
Interest-only loans are primarily adjustable-rate products with an initial fixed period when only interest is due. Available in 5-, 7- or 10-year terms, they ''are generally done for 10 years so there's no payment shock in the near term,'' said Tom Wind, the executive vice president for residential and consumer lending at EverBank, a national lender based in Jacksonville, Fla.
Interest rates are usually an eighth- to a half-percentage point higher than on fully amortized jumbo loans. After the fixed term is up, the mortgage re-amortizes, and both principal and interest are due.
On a $700,000 loan with a fixed rate of 3.875 for the first 10 years, the monthly payment would be $2,260, as calculated by Mr. Pisnoy. After 10 years, based on the same rate, the payment would rise to $4,195. If over time the rate adjusted upward by as much as five percentage points (the usual cap), the payment could reach $6,700.
To avoid such a scenario, however, borrowers generally put money toward their principal balance ahead of time, or refinance out of the loan before a full payment is due.
Two lenders -- Community National Bank and National Cooperative Bank -- offer interest-only loans for co-ops in the New York market. Demand is weak, however, because so many co-ops take a dim view of such financing, said Jordan Roth, a senior branch manager of GFI Mortgage Bankers in Manhattan.
''We're finding a number of co-ops that are becoming more conservative when it comes to the mortgage products they will allow their prospective buyers to use,'' Mr. Roth said. ''Very rarely do you find one that allows an interest-only mortgage in the current market.''
More lenders may yet decide to get out of the interest-only segment. Under rules issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, beginning next January, lenders will face greater legal exposure on interest-only loans that go into foreclosure.
But mortgage executives played down that risk, citing the high qualifying ratios for these loans. ''These are very strong loans,'' Mr. Wind said, ''and that's creating availability among smaller lenders as well as larger banks.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CASH FLOW (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (75%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (91%); FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (55%); NATIONAL COOPERATIVE BANK (50%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (91%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (91%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (52%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



774 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL | 2013 BUICK ENCORE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Buick Stakes a Claim In Munchkinland

BYLINE: By CHERYL JENSEN

 BODY:
WARREN, N.H. -- Buick's image is so ingrained in the national consciousness that the name has become shorthand for an American road barge with ample proportions. That moose, someone may say, ''is as big as a Buick.''
But since Buick survived the brand massacre that accompanied General Motors' bankruptcy and reorganization -- living on even as Hummer, Pontiac and Saturn were laid to rest -- the division and its products have slimmed down and shaped up.
And with its new Encore, Buick is bravely venturing into barely charted terrain at the small end of the utility market, where the mini-Buick, along with the BMW X1 and Mini Countryman, is blazing an upscale trail that other brands will soon follow with their own small-scale, yet upscale, crossovers.
What's as small as this diminutive new Buick? Among crossovers, not much. In overall length, the 2013 Encore is the shortest Buick since the Model 34 runabout of 1912; at 168.5 inches long, the Encore is about 10 inches shorter than a Honda CR-V and eight inches less than a BMW X1. 
Despite the Encore's dimunitive size, Buick marketers envision a big opportunity in an emerging market category. They expect annual United States sales of submidsize crossovers, including luxury models, to reach 360,000 by 2015.
But while the Encore has carved out its own little corner of the crossover kingdom, even Buick executives have a hard time pinning down the competition. They mention the X1, though that vehicle, the smallest BMW on four wheels, is more sporty and more expensive. The target customers are similar to those of the Volkswagen Tiquan, which is a bit larger and less fuel-efficient.
The Encore is about half a foot longer than the Nissan Juke and Mini Countryman, but the Juke is more raucous and lacks the Encore's amenities. The Countryman, like the Juke, has a more adventurous design.
Fuel economy is a big part of the sales pitch. The front-drive Encore has a federal rating of 25 miles per gallon in the city, 33 on the highway and 28 in combined driving. The all-wheel-drive version is rated at 23 city, 30 highway and 26 combined. I nearly matched the highway rating on a trip from hilly northern New Hampshire to the flatlands of Springfield, Mass., with the cruise control set at 65.
Buick says the Encore has the highest fuel economy of any front-drive crossover offered by a Detroit automaker, which seems like a lot of caveats. (Lest anyone begin waving the American flag, the Encore is assembled in South Korea.)
Still, several compact crossovers that are somewhat larger and heavier manage to get comparable fuel economy ratings. And somewhat surprisingly, the midsize Subaru Outback, a much larger and heavier car, has a similar mileage rating (24 city/30 highway/26 combined). The Outback's price range is also similar, and the Subaru is assembled in Indiana.
The Encore is enjoyable enough to drive, especially given the challenges to ride comfort posed by a relatively short wheelbase and tall body. On smooth pavement, there is no issue, but on rough patches occupants are sometimes subjected to a fair amount of up-and-down jiggling.
The electric power steering is something Buick can brag about; it is tight on center, linear and predictable in the turns. Like most electric steering systems, however, it doesn't convey much road feel to the driver. With its tidy dimensions, the Encore changes direction quickly and demonstrates Buick's newfound commitment to making cars that are satisfying -- even if not downright sporty -- to drive.
The only engine is a 1.4-liter Ecotec 4-cylinder rated at 138 horsepower and 148 pound-feet of torque. This turbocharged motor is mated to a 6-speed automatic transmission.
For a small 4-cylinder engine, there wasn't much vibration or noise -- and indeed, in normal driving, the power plant doesn't seem so small. But flooring the accelerator produces some undignified noises, and the 3,309-pound all-wheel-drive model goes nowhere fast.
The transmission is smart about choosing the correct gear. Climbing a steep two-lane road between here and the Kinsman Notch, it selected one gear and held it.
A tall sixth gear lets the Encore cruise at 65 m.p.h. at a fairly relaxed engine speed of 2,300 r.p.m.
Although it has been widely reported that the Encore is based on the Chevrolet Sonic economy car, its chief engineer, Jim Danahy, said that was not quite correct. While both cars are part of G.M.'s Gamma platform family, Mr. Danahy said there were three different architectures within that family. While the Sonic is built on the Gamma's car architecture, the Encore is based on a small crossover variant.
''The only thing we share between the two vehicles is the front seat frames, the front dash and the engine,'' he said. The two vehicles also have their transmission in common.
The Encore continues to follow Buick's philosophy of no noise is good noise. It is surprisingly hushed inside the cozy wagon, helped in part by Buick's first application of active noise cancellation, which counters unwanted ambient sounds by producing ''antinoise'' soundwaves.
The Encore stuffs a lot into a very short, fairly tall package, and it borrows a few styling cues from the big LaCrosse sedan and Enclave S.U.V. Still, the proportions could be described as awkward.
The pint-size interior is handsome and plush, at least in the leather-trimmed Premium version that I tested. Still, even with the driver and passenger sitting almost elbow to elbow, the cabin seems open and airy. That's because headroom is ample, the windows are deep and the windshield is raked forward.
The closeness of the occupants makes the separate-but-unequal virtues of the Buick's dual temperature controls rather superfluous. I had my control set at 74 degrees, and my passenger's was set at 60, but the whole interior was very warm.
The front seats were comfortable for a three-hour stretch, even for a 6-foot-4 passenger. But it seems incongruous, in what's supposed to be a premium product, to adjust the front seatbacks with a manual lever rather than a power control.
Buick calls the Encore a five-passenger vehicle, but five people could ride comfortably only if those in the rear are tiny or the trip is short. Of course, the Encore is really intended for young couples and for empty-nesters, not for family use.
There is 18.8 cubic feet of space behind the second row of seats, enough for weekly shopping trips or four medium suitcases. You can flip the back seatbacks down to open up a cargo area of 48.4 cubic feet.
Lowering the rear seats flat has unintended consequences. The folded seatbacks force the front seats so far forward that I had to sit uncomfortably near the steering wheel -- and unsafely close to the air bag.
The Encore's standard safety systems include 10 air bags, with knee bags for the front occupants and thorax bags even for the outer rear seating positions. Electronic crash-avoidance technologies are also offered, though only with Premium trim, the most expensive version: forward collision alert provides a warning when sensors detect an impending crash, and lane-departure warning sounds an alert if you start to drift out of lane.
Atop the instrument panel there's a seven-inch color display for the IntelliLink voice-activated infotainment system, which integrates audio services like Pandora and Sirius XM Satellite Radio through the Bose Premium sound system. My test car had a navigation system, a $795 option. My editor, who drove a different Encore, reported a 100 percent failure rate when trying to use voice recognition to make calls or set destinations.
The Encore comes in four trim levels with prices for front-wheel-drive models from $24,950 to $28,940; all-wheel drive costs another $1,500. My test model -- the top-of-the-line Premium with all-wheel drive and a few options -- came to $32,425. The only other options, a sunroof and chromed aluminum wheels, would have pushed the price above $34,000.
The Encore is a bold move from a brand once known for cautious conservatism, and for now it has a niche -- small, but likely to grow -- mostly to itself. As the competition grows, the Buick's relatively high price and comparatively unimpressive mileage may work against it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SHRINKAGE: The Encore, built in South Korea, rides high and looks plush. (AU1)
 EASY RIDER: The Encore is quiet and composed, and it generally rides comfortably for a vehicle with such tidy dimensions. The turbocharged 1.4-liter engine handles normal driving without complaint, but acceleration can be leisurely. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GENERAL MOTORS) (AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (76%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%)

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (92%); BMW (BIT) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



775 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Answering Calls to Serve

BYLINE: By RUBÉN JOSÉ KING-SHAW Jr.. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
MY father, who was born and raised in Panama, became an American citizen by joining the Army when the United States operated the Panama Canal. He moved to the United States in the early 1950s, attended Howard University, met my mother and became a successful architect.
I grew up in Rockville, Md., and had a newspaper route as a child. Even though my family was prosperous, I wanted my own money. 
When I was in high school, I heard about labor strikes and other workers' rights movements. I didn't immediately understand how people could put their families at risk financially by joining a strike, so I asked my guidance counselor. She explained to me what labor-management disputes were all about. I thought I might become an arbitrator.
My father insisted that I attend Cornell University, but I told him that it was my decision. He said, ''Not if I'm paying for it.'' I visited the school ready to hate it, out of spite, but I loved it. My studies included a course in economic security, which was about safety nets like Social Security and Medicare. I learned that labor costs were making American products less competitive. My research showed that exploding health care costs were driving up labor costs.
I graduated from Cornell in 1983 with a bachelor's degree in industrial and labor relations, then got two master's degrees at Florida International University, in health care services administration and international business.
After graduating, I worked as a stockbroker, specializing in health care stocks, and advised small businesses about their health care benefits. I did that until the market crashed in 1987. Next I became the marketing director and then executive director for what was then the JMH Health Plan in Miami. Following that, I was an executive for the Neighborhood Health Partnership for five years.
In 1998, Jeb Bush, then the governor-elect of Florida, appointed me as secretary of the Florida Agency for Health Care Administration. It meant moving my family from Miami to Tallahassee and giving up my seats for Miami Heat, Dolphins and Marlins games, as well as those of the Florida Panthers of the N.H.L. That was hard. But when a governor asks you to perform a public service, you can't very well say, ''I'm busy that day.''
During my tenure, Governor Bush suggested that I talk to his brother George W., then the governor of Texas, about my thoughts on health care policy, which I did. After George W. Bush won the presidency, people told me to expect a call to join the new administration. Even so, I was shocked when it came. In 2001, I became chief operating officer for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the Department of Health and Human Services. Two years later, I served as senior adviser to the Treasury secretary and led an effort to reform tax credit policies for the uninsured. From 2010 to 2012, I served on a committee for the Obama administration to help decide Medicare procurement policies.
In 2004, I began devoting more time to Mansa Equity Partners, which I started in 2003 as a holding company for my investments. I'm also managing partner and chief investment officer of the Mansa Capital fund. With $30 million under management, it's Mansa Equity's largest asset.
I attribute my success to my mentors. My Cornell professors first inspired me to connect labor costs with health care costs and helped me understand the future implications. Then I was lucky enough to work for visionaries in the health care industry who saw potential in me. I'm especially proud of my public service, a highlight of my career.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: RUBÉN JOSÉ KING-SHAW JR.: President and C.E.O. of Mansa Equity Partners in Miami AGE: 51 DUAL CITIZEN OF: Panama and the United States A FAN OF: Marvel comics (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN GILLOOLY/EPI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (87%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (77%); FAMILY (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); STRIKES (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (72%); MEDICARE (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (70%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%); CIVIL SERVICES (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (62%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (58%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PANAMA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



776 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; IN TRANSIT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: Tourism: What If You Hate Mountains?

BYLINE: By EMILY BRENNAN

 BODY:
In a recent report from the World Economic Forum analyzing 140 countries' competitiveness in travel and tourism, Switzerland (above) ranked first, and the United States was sixth. The factors that determined a country's ranking include its tourism infrastructure, appeal to business travelers and friendliness (in that last category, Iceland scored high marks and Bolivia finished last).
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: St. Gallen in Switzerland, a nation easy on tourism. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL AUF DER MAUER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOURISM (88%); RANKINGS (87%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ST GALLEN, SWITZERLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); ICELAND (92%); SWITZERLAND (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



777 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Senate Passes $3.7 Trillion Budget, Setting Up Contentious Negotiations

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- After an all-night debate that ended just before 5 a.m., the Senate on Saturday adopted its first budget in four years, a $3.7 trillion blueprint for 2014 that would provide a fast track for passage of tax increases, trim spending modestly and leave the government still deeply in the red a decade from now.
The 50-to-49 vote in the Senate, which is controlled by Democrats, sets up contentious -- and potentially fruitless -- negotiations with the Republican-controlled House in April to reconcile two vastly different plans for dealing with the nation's economic and budgetary problems. No Republicans voted for the Senate plan, and four Democrats opposed it: Mark Pryor of Arkansas, Kay Hagan of North Carolina, Mark Begich of Alaska and Max Baucus of Montana. All four are from red states and are up for re-election in 2014. 
''The Senate has passed a budget,'' Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the Senate Budget Committee chairwoman, declared at 4:56 a.m.
The House plan ostensibly brings the government's taxes and spending into balance by 2023 with cuts to domestic spending even below the levels of automatic across-the-board cuts roiling federal programs now, and it orders up dramatic and controversial changes to Medicare and the tax code.
The Senate plan, by contrast, includes $100 billion in upfront infrastructure spending to bolster the economy and calls for special fast-track rules to overhaul the tax code and raise $975 billion over 10 years in legislation that could not be filibustered. Even with that tax increase and prescribed spending cuts, the Senate plan would leave the government with a $566 billion annual deficit in 10 years, and $5.2 trillion in additional debt over that window.
''The first priority of the Senate budget is creating jobs and economic growth from the middle out, not the top down,'' Ms. Murray said. ''With an unemployment rate that remains stubbornly high, and a middle class that has seen their wages stagnate for far too long, we simply cannot afford any threats to our fragile recovery.''
Republicans were harshly dismissive of the Democrats' priorities. ''Honest people can disagree on policy, but where there can be no honest disagreement is the need to change our nation's debt course,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the committee's ranking Republican. ''The singular truth that no one can escape is that the House budget changes our debt course while the Senate budget does not.''
Passage of the competing spending plans does advance a more orderly budget process after nearly three years of crises and brinkmanship. If House and Senate negotiators can agree on a framework for overhauling the tax code and entitlement programs like Medicare, Congress's committees could go to work on detailed legislation, possibly under special rules that protect the bills from a Senate filibuster.
If the negotiations prove fruitless, the next budget crisis looms this summer when Congress must again raise the government's statutory borrowing limit or risk defaulting on the federal debt. On Thursday, House Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio revived a rule -- breached in January -- that any increase in the debt ceiling must be accompanied by equivalent spending cuts.
Final passage of the Senate budget was upstaged by the process that got the senators to it, a marathon session known since 1977 as the budget ''vote-a-rama.'' More than 500 amendments were filed, and 70 were voted on. Those numbers dwarf previous marathon voting sessions, reflecting pent-up Republican demand for votes and a new, uncompromising view of procedure on the part of Tea Party-backed senators.
The amendments were advisory only, but they put the Senate on record on a dizzying variety of subjects, including limiting the regulation of sage grouse, preventing the United Nations from infringing on Americans' right to bear arms, repealing a tax on medical devices that helps finance the president's health care law and building the Keystone XL pipeline.
By 4 a.m., the senators were sitting quietly in their seats, plowing through amendments like sleepy schoolchildren, breaking only to give the Senate pages a standing ovation and to grumble when a senator demanded a roll-call vote if a voice vote would suffice. As the senators recorded their final votes, they hastily left for a two-week spring recess.
But the sleepy bonhomie did not bridge the divide between the parties. Senate Republicans and Democrats could not even agree on what was in the Democratic budget. Ms. Murray said the plan matched its $975 billion in revenue increases with cuts and interest savings of equal size. But Republicans said it did not, since it reversed $1 trillion in across-the-board cuts but did not count that against their spending cuts.
Those differences did not lend themselves to much optimism about the coming budget negotiations. ''The only good news is that the fiscal path the Democrats laid out in their budget resolution won't become law,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TAX REFORM (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MEDICARE (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); JOB CREATION (69%); INFRASTRUCTURE (52%)

PERSON: MARK PRYOR (73%); PATTY MURRAY (59%); MAX BAUCUS (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); KAY HAGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



778 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; READER COMMENTS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: 

 BODY:
Nine High Schools, One Roof
In last Sunday's Metropolitan section, Liz Robbins and Theodoric Meyer wrote about the Stevenson campus in the Bronx, where nine small schools now share the building once occupied by a single comprehensive high school. Reader responses from nytimes.com, some of them condensed, are below.
GIMMICKS AS ''educational reform'' is probably as old as education itself. Small schools, open classrooms, new math, phonics -- it goes on and on. Some of this has been initiated by educators, but much of the impetus comes from administrators, school boards and parents. Everyone has an opinion about education, and almost none of it is well-informed. What urban schools need has been known for a long time: good management, structure in the classroom and strong, research-based curricula. None of this is sexy. None of it is dazzling enough to be faddish. And because parents, school administrators and politicians keep following shiny objects and so-called reformers, the waste and the tragic consequences for children continue. 
Rich
Washington, D.C.
I WAS A FOUNDING TEACHER at Mott Haven Prep, a redesigned small high school on the South Bronx High School campus. The day our first graduating class walked the stage was one of my proudest days as an educator. We had nearly 80 percent of our students graduate and most accepted to a 2- to 4-year college program. Six years later, I'm not sure how many have graduated, but I know I'd be disappointed by the numbers. I know the education MHVP offers is better than the large South Bronx experience we replaced. It takes incredible energy to create a new school, and at the time it felt like we were changing lives. However, I've learned that progress is incremental.
Small schools help young people feel known; personalization is important. Unfortunately, that is not enough to navigate from adolescence to adulthood in a competitive world. You need transferable skills, social capital, vision and the resiliency to pick yourself up along the way. We are looking for short-term gains in what is a long-term process -- how to make communities like the Bronx hopeful places to live and raise a family.
Alfredo Mathew
Oakland, Calif.
I AM A GRADUATE of Stevenson, class of 1975. That school then was state of the art, we had drivers' ed, even our own print shop and newspaper. Stevenson prepared you for college; most of us went to college from Stevenson and those who didn't still made quite a life for themselves. Stevenson also had the most caring teachers and innovative class courses ever. It saddens me to see Stevenson in this state; it should be what it always has been: one solid school. I think the Board of Ed, Bloomberg, who needs to involve parents more, and the parents, need to rethink their strategies because none of it works now as it stands.
Dianne Washington
New York, N.Y.
In Obesity Fight,
Poverty Is Patient Zero
Readers also responded to Ginia Bellafante's Big City column, about public health and poverty.
AS A STUDENT in the master's in public health program at San Francisco State University, I know what the C.D.C. knows: economic inequality and racism put people at high risk for illness, chronic disease and death, including extreme obesity. In public health jargon, regions that only offer fast food restaurants, small convenience stores and liquor stores as access to nutrition are called ''food deserts'' and such geographic areas are known to carry high disease burdens, statistically.
Large sugary drinks are not the main risk factor for obesity. Unsafe and marginalized neighborhoods, lack of access to safe recreational space, lack of access to affordable, healthy food and poverty are much stronger risk factors.
Racism and economic inequality are making many of our brothers and sisters sick. Are we all willing to admit that?
Rebecca R.
Oakland, Calif.
DON'T TELL ME THAT someone who can afford Big Macs ($3.29 - $4.10) and sodas ($1.00 - ...?) as a steady lunch diet can't afford a healthy substitute. Obesity IS a choice!
Bob Walton
Severn, Md.
POVERTY IS NOT the reason that the poor are obese. The reason is that fast foods promoted by corporate food producers have replaced healthy, inexpensive real food in the American diet.
I know, because I grew up ''poor.'' My mother prepared a menu based on vegetables, beans, eggs and a small amount of meat or fish. When my husband and I were first married, we lived on lentils, meatloaf and stews made with little meat and many vegetables. It is sometimes difficult to buy fresh food in poor neighborhoods. The city has tried to remedy this problem by licensing vegetable vendors to work in those areas. We have been brainwashed by corporate actors to eat cheaply produced, fattening, phony food: that is the problem.
RMC
N.Y.C.
IF THERE WERE DEMAND for healthier foods, merchants would provide them.
Values and lack of education/awareness about health and diet is the real problem.
Connect::the::Dots
N.Y.C.
SO MANY OF THESE LETTERS are written by those who have clearly never been poor. Eat more beans? On our tiny budget I give as much protein as I can afford to my children but cannot take any for myself. Fresh fruits and vegetables are very expensive and are never given at food pantries. I wish that those who think they know better would accompany the hungry as we spend hours traveling to food pantries and sit and wait for whatever they have to give. Hours that cannot be spent looking for work. We generally can't even take advantage of coupons as so many require a purchase of multiple items and if one is stretching $100 to last a week one can't often buy multiples of anything but pasta. To believe that the poor get fat on anything but poor nutrition is to know nothing of the problem.
Ayshford
New York, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); DRIVER EDUCATION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



779 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: For Blacks In Cuba, the Revolution Hasn't Begun

BYLINE: By ROBERTO ZURBANO. 
The editor and publisher of the Casa de las Américas publishing house. This essay was translated by Kristina Cordero from the Spanish.

 BODY:
Havana
CHANGE is the latest news to come out of Cuba, though for Afro-Cubans like myself, this is more dream than reality. Over the last decade, scores of ridiculous prohibitions for Cubans living on the island have been eliminated, among them sleeping at a hotel, buying a cellphone, selling a house or car and traveling abroad. These gestures have been celebrated as signs of openness and reform, though they are really nothing more than efforts to make life more normal. And the reality is that in Cuba, your experience of these changes depends on your skin color.
The private sector in Cuba now enjoys a certain degree of economic liberation, but blacks are not well positioned to take advantage of it. We inherited more than three centuries of slavery during the Spanish colonial era. Racial exclusion continued after Cuba became independent in 1902, and a half century of revolution since 1959 has been unable to overcome it. 
In the early 1990s, after the cold war ended, Fidel Castro embarked on economic reforms that his brother and successor, Raúl, continues to pursue. Cuba had lost its greatest benefactor, the Soviet Union, and plunged into a deep recession that came to be known as the ''Special Period.'' There were frequent blackouts. Public transportation hardly functioned. Food was scarce. To stem unrest, the government ordered the economy split into two sectors: one for private businesses and foreign-oriented enterprises, which were essentially permitted to trade in United States dollars, and the other, the continuation of the old socialist order, built on government jobs that pay an average of $20 a month.
It's true that Cubans still have a strong safety net: most do not pay rent, and education and health care are free. But the economic divergence created two contrasting realities that persist today. The first is that of white Cubans, who have leveraged their resources to enter the new market-driven economy and reap the benefits of a supposedly more open socialism. The other reality is that of the black plurality, which witnessed the demise of the socialist utopia from the island's least comfortable quarters.
Most remittances from abroad -- mainly the Miami area, the nerve center of the mostly white exile community -- go to white Cubans. They tend to live in more upscale houses, which can easily be converted into restaurants or bed-and-breakfasts -- the most common kind of private business in Cuba. Black Cubans have less property and money, and also have to contend with pervasive racism. Not long ago it was common for hotel managers, for example, to hire only white staff members, so as not to offend the supposed sensibilities of their European clientele.
That type of blatant racism has become less socially acceptable, but blacks are still woefully underrepresented in tourism -- probably the economy's most lucrative sector -- and are far less likely than whites to own their own businesses. Raúl Castro has recognized the persistence of racism and has been successful in some areas (there are more black teachers and representatives in the National Assembly), but much remains to be done to address the structural inequality and racial prejudice that continue to exclude Afro-Cubans from the benefits of liberalization.
Racism in Cuba has been concealed and reinforced in part because it isn't talked about. The government hasn't allowed racial prejudice to be debated or confronted politically or culturally, often pretending instead as though it didn't exist. Before 1990, black Cubans suffered a paralysis of economic mobility while, paradoxically, the government decreed the end of racism in speeches and publications. To question the extent of racial progress was tantamount to a counterrevolutionary act. This made it almost impossible to point out the obvious: racism is alive and well.
If the 1960s, the first decade after the revolution, signified opportunity for all, the decades that followed demonstrated that not everyone was able to have access to and benefit from those opportunities. It's true that the 1980s produced a generation of black professionals, like doctors and teachers, but these gains were diminished in the 1990s as blacks were excluded from lucrative sectors like hospitality. Now in the 21st century, it has become all too apparent that the black population is underrepresented at universities and in spheres of economic and political power, and overrepresented in the underground economy, in the criminal sphere and in marginal neighborhoods.
Raúl Castro has announced that he will step down from the presidency in 2018. It is my hope that by then, the antiracist movement in Cuba will have grown, both legally and logistically, so that it might bring about solutions that have for so long been promised, and awaited, by black Cubans.
An important first step would be to finally get an accurate official count of Afro-Cubans. The black population in Cuba is far larger than the spurious numbers of the most recent censuses. The number of blacks on the street undermines, in the most obvious way, the numerical fraud that puts us at less than one-fifth of the population. Many people forget that in Cuba, a drop of white blood can -- if only on paper -- make a mestizo, or white person, out of someone who in social reality falls into neither of those categories. Here, the nuances governing skin color are a tragicomedy that hides longstanding racial conflicts.
The end of the Castros' rule will mean an end to an era in Cuban politics. It is unrealistic to hope for a black president, given the insufficient racial consciousness on the island. But by the time Raúl Castro leaves office, Cuba will be a very different place. We can only hope that women, blacks and young people will be able to help guide the nation toward greater equality of opportunity and the achievement of full citizenship for Cubans of all colors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Havana, 2013'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WEBB/MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (77%); HOTEL STAFF (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (76%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



780 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Russian Ties Put Cyprus Banking Crisis on East-West Fault Line

BYLINE: By ANDREW HIGGINS; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting from Moscow, and Dimitris Bounias from Nicosia, Cyprus.

 BODY:
LIMASSOL, Cyprus -- Andreas Marangos, a Porsche-driving lawyer here, had just woken up when he heard the news that threatened to destroy his and Cyprus's most lucrative business: setting up shell companies and providing financial services for wealthy Russians.
He rushed to his computer to check whether the ''crazy talk'' he had just heard was true -- that his government had agreed last week to effectively confiscate 9.9 percent of the wealth of anyone holding more than 100,000 euros, about $129,000, in a Cyprus bank.
A week later, this Mediterranean island nation is still trying to figure out how to raise the $7.5 billion European lenders say it must have by Monday in return for a bailout. Late Saturday, the tentative plan was to seize a portion of all deposits above 100,000 euros, with the bite set at 20 percent for those banking with Cyprus's biggest bank.
For Mr. Marangos, either plan is bad news. 
''Since last Saturday, we are just answering calls from angry clients,'' said the lawyer, whose firm has helped Russians and Ukrainians set up 6,000 companies in Cyprus so that they can avoid taxes, benefit from a sound legal system and, they hoped, keep their money safe. Cyprus still offers those draws, he insisted, but his clients ''thought we had betrayed them.''
Accusations of treachery, mostly aimed by poorer nations at Germany for demanding budget cuts and other painful steps in return for help, have become a regular feature of Europe's three-year-old debt crisis. But what began in Cyprus as just another episode in a now-familiar narrative of stingy, rich Northern Europeans versus put-upon, poor southerners has escalated into a bigger drama tinged with cold war-style language and strategic calculations involving not just money but also energy and even military power.
Cyprus had been haggling with Europe for months over a bailout deal to rescue its bloated banks. Last week, the initial plan to seize money from even modest bank depositors sent swarms of panicked residents to automated teller machines to try to withdraw their money. But the crisis involves more than financial considerations.
''There is a geopolitical game going on behind all this,'' Mr. Marangos said.
With just 860,000 people and a gross domestic product of only $23 billion, the Republic of Cyprus makes an unlikely strategic prize. But it sits atop a web of overlapping and potentially volatile fault lines -- between East and West, the European Union and Russia, and Greece and Turkey, whose troops occupy the northern part of the island. It also has natural gas in the waters off its coast toward Israel. Nobody knows for sure yet how much -- that may become clearer later this year when Houston-based Noble Energy carries out a new round of exploratory drilling.
But just the possibility of significant reserves has raised hope in Brussels, and fear in Moscow, that Cyprus could help break the European Union's dependence on Russian-supplied gas.
''There is a clear danger of this area becoming a platform for confrontation between East and West,'' said Harry Tzimitras, director of PRIO Cyprus Centre, a research center in the capital, Nicosia.
Cyprus has until now frozen out Russian interests from offshore gas concessions, snubbing a low bid by Novatek, a Russian company whose directors include Gennady Timchenko, a wealthy oil trader and judo club acquaintance of President Vladimir V. Putin's. In talks last week in Moscow over a possible loan to Cyprus, Russia made clear that it expected a piece of the gas pie for its own companies, according to Cypriot officials and politicians.
In Russia's view, Cyprus, which already has two British military bases, a legacy of the country's colonial past, would also be an ideal place to set up a small naval installation should the Kremlin lose access to Tartus, a Syrian port that risks being swamped by that nation's civil war.
The Moscow talks yielded no deal and dashed hopes that Russia might ride to the rescue. But many Cypriots still view Russia as a useful counterweight to bullying by Brussels. ''We are not a Trojan horse for Russia in Europe, but we are trying to protect our interests like everyone does,'' said Petros Zarounas, a diplomatic adviser to the Democratic Party, part of the governing coalition.
According to a recent opinion poll by Cyprus's Sigma television, the public mood has turned decisively against Europe and toward Russia. More than two-thirds of those surveyed agreed that Cyprus should drop the euro and move closer to Russia because of the ''behavior of our European partners.'' Protesters outside Parliament last week waved banners cursing the European Union and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.
With Cyprus's banks closed for more than a week now, fear-driven rumors of secret deals and big power politics have become the main coin of the realm.
As a team of European Union experts set up camp in Nicosia to try to figure out how to resuscitate the bailout package announced in Brussels on March 16 and declared dead on arrival by the Cypriot Parliament, a Russian-language radio station here led its news bulletins with reports of a ''direct strike against Russia's position'' in the Mediterranean by Secretary of State John Kerry.
The report, on Russian Wave radio, said that Mr. Kerry had telephoned Cyprus's finance minister and told him Washington was ready to help out, as long as Cyprus guaranteed a bigger role for the United States in gas concessions and raised the levy on large foreign depositors, many of them Russians, to 15 percent.
American officials said they knew of no such call by Mr. Kerry, and the radio station's news anchor, Nedezhda Braun, acknowledged that her report might not be true. No matter, she said. Russians here were desperate for information about a crisis that has hit their community hard.
There are more than 50,000 Russian speakers from across the former Soviet Union living in Cyprus, according to the Association of Russian Businessmen in Cyprus. Many live in Limassol, or Limassolgrad, as some now call it. The city has two Russian-language newspapers, dozens of shops selling Russian products and a memorial to Russia's national poet, Alexander Pushkin.
A host of Russian plutocrats have registered shell companies here and some have bought villas, but most fly in for short trips to consult with lawyers and bankers.
A few have even invested in real businesses. Dmitry Rybolovlev, a fertilizer billionaire, is one of the largest shareholders in the troubled Bank of Cyprus. One proposal said to have been under consideration last week in Moscow would have involved Mr. Rybolovlev's increasing his stake and other Russian investors taking over the Popular Bank of Cyprus, an institution that the Cypriot government has since decided to effectively shut down.
The majority of the Russians who live here full time are of modest means, and they resent a widespread view of Cyprus as a haven for Russian crooks and dirty rubles. This view, encouraged by a leaked report from Germany's foreign intelligence agency, underpins much of the resistance in Berlin and other European capitals to any bailout for Cyprus that does not squeeze wealthy foreigners.
''We are not criminals, arms dealers or bootleggers,'' said Sergey Ivanov, a Russian who runs a wine business here. ''There is a generation of Russian businessmen like me who have lost faith in the Russian government, in Russian banks and in Russian laws. That is why we are in Cyprus.'' He said he was now wondering whether he should go home.
Others have already decided to call it quits, including Alexey Voloboev, who owns Russian Wave radio as well as a Russian restaurant and stakes in other Cypriot businesses. He is so angry with the proposed confiscation of depositors' money and the damage this threat has done to business confidence that he now wants to sell and move to London.
''I knew it would be bad, but never expected it to be this bad,'' he said. ''I thought banks might go bankrupt, but not the whole country.''
To avoid that fate, Cyprus has until Monday to reach a new deal with its lenders: the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. The European bank has threatened to cut off vital short-term financing to Cyprus's wobbly banks if no agreement is reached, an action that would upend the country's biggest and already effectively insolvent banks and risk pushing the country toward default.
''This is all a dirty game to create a banking collapse,'' fumed Yuri Pianykh of the Russian business association -- aimed, he contends, at luring Russian money out of Cyprus to other European countries. He insisted the country had better safeguards to combat money laundering than many other European states and had been the victim of a German smear campaign.
David Officer, a sociologist at the University of Nicosia, said Cyprus had indeed enacted tough legislation to fight dirty money, ''but the problem is implementation.'' He said that ''a culture of secrecy'' allows billions of dollars from abroad to slosh through the financial services and real estate industries with little supervision.
The dangers this creates are illustrated by the case of Sergei Magnitsky, a Moscow lawyer who was arrested after he helped expose how corrupt Russian officials had stolen $230 million in taxes paid by Hermitage Capital, an investment company formerly based in Moscow. After Mr. Magnitsky died in prison in 2009, Bill Browder, Hermitage's American-born founder, tracked $31 million of the stolen money to various bank accounts in Cyprus.
Any dirty money flowing through Cyprus, however, is dwarfed by funds generated by legitimate businesses looking for easy and legal ways to avoid taxes. There are so many Russian companies registered in Cyprus for tax reasons that the tiny country now ranks as Russia's biggest source of direct foreign investment, most of it from Russian nationals through vehicles registered in Cyprus.
While wealthier European countries object to practices that allow companies to sell their goods in one nation and book their profits in low-tax havens like Cyprus, Mr. Marangos, the lawyer, sees no reason for Cyprus to give up its financial service industry when its other best asset is sunny weather.
''We want to keep this industry,'' he said. ''Otherwise we will be selling ice cream and laying out sun beds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At a rally outside Parliament on Friday to protest the bailout terms, a Russian woman who lives in Cyprus held a sign written in Russian, English and Greek. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETROS GIANNAKOURIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); EURO (89%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (77%); COLD WAR (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (75%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (72%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (61%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: NOBLE ENERGY INC (50%)

TICKER: NBL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (67%) TEXAS, USA (67%) CYPRUS (95%); EUROPE (94%); GREECE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); TURKEY (79%); UNITED STATES (67%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



781 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2456 words

HEADLINE: The Mayor's Geek Squad

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
It was a case for a digital Sherlock Holmes. Last fall, the city's Department of Environmental Protection wanted, finally, to crack down on restaurants that were illegally dumping cooking oil into sewers in their neighborhoods -- congealed yellow grease is responsible, the department says, for more than half of New York's clogged drains. The question, of course, was how to find the culprits?
The antiquated answer would have been to have the health department send inspectors to restaurants on blocks with backed-up sewers and hope by chance to catch a busboy pouring the contents of a deep fryer into the street.
Enter the city's Office of Policy and Strategic Planning, a geek squad of civic-minded number-crunchers working from a pair of cluttered cubicles across from City Hall in the Municipal Building. They dug up data from the Business Integrity Commission, an obscure city agency that among other tasks certifies that all local restaurants have a carting service to haul away their grease. With a few quick calculations, comparing restaurants that did not have a carter with geo-spatial data on the sewers, the team was able to hand inspectors a list of statistically likely suspects. 
The result: a 95 percent success rate in tracking down the dumpers. With nothing grander than public data, the Case of the Grease-Clogged Sewers was solved.
Data -- or Big Data, as quantitative analysts will call it -- is the tool du jour for tech-savvy companies that have realized that lurking in the vast pools of unprocessed information in their networks are solutions to some of today's most pressing and convoluted problems. A few years ago, Google, for example, took the 50 million most common keywords that Americans typed in search bars and tried to figure out, by comparing them with federal health statistics, where the H1N1 flu virus was to likely strike next.
According to a new book, ''Big Data: A Revolution that Will Transform How We Live, Work and Think,'' the enormous quantity of information whirling through the ether can affect and enhance our quality of life. As the authors put it, ''The change of scale has led to a change of state.''
Now the city has brought this quantitative method to the exceedingly complicated machine that is New York. For the modest sum of $1 million, and at a moment when decreasing budgets have required increased efficiency, the in-house geek squad has over the last three years leveraged the power of computers to double the city's hit rate in finding stores selling bootleg cigarettes; sped the removal of trees destroyed by Hurricane Sandy; and helped steer overburdened housing inspectors -- working with more than 20,000 options -- directly to lawbreaking buildings where catastrophic fires were likeliest to occur.
''I think of us as the Get Stuff Done Folks,'' Michael Flowers who oversees the group, said. ''All we do is take and process massive amounts of information and use it to do things more effectively.''
Before being hired in 2009 by John Feinblatt, the mayor's chief policy adviser, Mr. Flowers didn't know much about computer code -- let alone Bayesian statistics. From 1999 to 2003, he worked at the Manhattan district attorney's office, prosecuting homicides and drug crimes. When he left law enforcement, he moved to Washington, where he joined the power law firm Williams & Connolly and later took a job with the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. Disenchanted by the smug homogeneity of Washington, Mr. Flowers leapt at the chance in 2005 to travel to Iraq with a team from the Justice Department to work on issues concerning mass graves and on Saddam Hussein's trial.
While serving in the Green Zone, Mr. Flowers was responsible for sending investigators to grave sites in the countryside and transporting witnesses against Mr. Hussein to his office -- without getting either group blown up by roadside bombs. It came to his attention that military officers were using predictive informational techniques to determine where and when the bombs were likely to explode.
He borrowed those techniques when he returned to New York and went to work for Mr. Feinblatt with the initial, limited task of trying to understand in the early months of the recession what was causing mortgage fraud.
''We eventually realized there was enormous value in using all our data -- together and proactively,'' Mr. Feinblatt said. ''We'd already done the retroactive act of looking back for accountability's sake. So we tried to use the data prescriptively to figure out what might be coming next.''
These days, Mr. Flowers, a relative amateur in data analytics, is the geek squad's chief tactician and resident asker of questions.
He allows the half-dozen post-collegiate techies working under him to ferret out the answers and, at age 43, he refers to them endearingly as ''the kids.'' His office gives the impression of a high-tech start-up -- but without the cool furniture. Nick O'Brien, 30 and the team's chief of staff, works standing at a lectern. Ben Dean, the 24-year-old chief analyst, sits on an ergonomic rubber ball.
One drawer in the filing cabinet is filled with spare neckties. These are to spruce team members up for meetings with ''That Guy,'' as Mr. Flowers likes to call his boss, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, invariably chucking a thumb in the direction of City Hall.
Two weeks ago, with Mr. O'Brien in Texas for the South-by-Southwest conference, the rest of the team was working on a project to make the city's response to natural disasters like Hurricane Sandy more robust. Catherine Kwan, 24, was doing some ''MacGyver stuff,'' as Mr. Flowers called it, correlating city information with data from utilities, like Con Edison, to put in place a system that would eventually detect, in real time, when a building's heat or lights were out.
''So what's the current ratio of Con Ed customer accounts per residential unit?'' Mr. Flowers asked. (Ms. Kwan's answer: 0.88.) And the ratio of people per unit was ''2.6,'' she said.
One of the benefits that come from working with the informational atoms of the city is an almost molecular understanding of New York itself. The youthful quants were surprised to learn, for instance, that it was mathematically possible to create safer streets by encouraging local businesses to keep their doors open later after dark. They also had not known that a significant percentage of 311 complaints derived from certain neighborhoods in Lower Manhattan -- an area they now refer to jokingly as ''whine country.''
''What's impressed me most about this job,'' Mr. Flowers said, ''is learning how insanely complicated this city is.'' He mentioned, in particular, the 900,000 buildings the city oversees and the 12,000 tons of trash it picks up daily.
''That activity is reflected in the data and on an amazingly detailed level. What we're really running here is an office of New Yorkology,'' he said.
WHAT THE CITY KNOWS about its 8 million residents is staggering. Contained in public archives is information about their boilers and their sprinkler systems, the state of their local taxes, the number of heart attacks and fires that occur inside their buildings and whether they have ever logged complaints about roaches or construction noise. Additional data is gathered about their businesses, their commuting habits and their children's test scores.
If a parking meter sits outside their apartment, the city knows how many cars have parked there on any given day, the number and dollar amount of tickets handed out and, of course, the identities of those who have received them.
''There's a deep, deep relationship between New Yorkers and their government,'' Mr. Flowers said, ''and that relationship is captured in the data.''
In all, a terabyte of raw information -- enough to fill nearly 143 million printed pages -- passes daily through Mr. Flowers's office, and his team's first job, he said, was to get that information into a comprehensible form: to, in effect, create a lingua franca for the bureaucracy's Tower of Babel. As Mr. Feinblatt put it, ''The data will tell you a story, but only if you do certain things that encourages it to speak.''
Among the first things the city did was to establish in 1989 the Commission on Public Information and Communication, or Copic, which under the aegis of the Public Advocate's office was charged with helping New Yorkers get better access to municipal information.
While ''good-government'' advocates like Noel Hidalgo, executive director of the Open New York Forum, which advocates for the use of technology in city management, have questioned the effectiveness of Copic, they have also said its existence laid the groundwork for the passage last year of Local Law 11, one of the country's most progressive open-data laws.
''Copic was Version 1.0 for greater transparency in public information,'' Mr. Hidalgo said, ''but it needed updating for the 21st century. Now, with Law 11, there is the potential to radically change how government services are used by citizens. It opens the door to a unique partnership between the city and its residents so that people can come up with innovative ways of using information.''
The law's chief provision created a clearinghouse called the Open Data Portal, which offers to the public hundreds of sets of city data, including the location of Wi-Fi hot spots, the results of restaurant inspections, yearly power use by ZIP code and maps of public parks.
Mr. Flowers is responsible for managing the portal -- which just this month placed online all city data now available -- but the information on the site has been employed by a wide variety of people. Two weeks ago, the Office of Financial Empowerment, a city agency that helps low-income residents, held a ''hackathon'' at which tech geeks using information from the portal built an internal scheduling system for the agency's counselors.
The portal has also served as a primary source for hackers in the city's Big Apps competition, which annually awards cash prizes to developers who have created applications like ones helping cyclists avoid city streets where accidents often occur and providing the locations of public restrooms.
With each passing week, it seems another hackathon -- think hacking marathon, usually to a beneficial purpose -- is mounted in New York. There was Foursquare's effort in January that resulted in the Nasdrunk app (it matched the closing value of the Nasdaq with smartphone check-ins at various city bars), and then there was Decoded Fashion, which took place during Fashion Week and was billed by its sponsor, Condé Nast, as the world's first fashion industry hackathon.
Though many of these events used proprietary data -- Occupy Wall Street held a hackathon this month crunching numbers from its Hurricane Sandy relief effort -- their diversity and frequency have created a kind of hothouse atmosphere, a local data frenzy in which private efforts at analysis have spurred city government on to do the same.
''I think New York is the natural place for Big Data,'' Mr. Flowers said. ''We have the right culture. We have a mayor who understands that management is measurement. And, of course, we're big enough so that it makes sense analyzing the data that we have.
''All the pieces, all the structures, are in place,'' he said. ''In New York, it's kind of like the triumph of the nerds.''
ONE DAY THIS MONTH, Mr. Flowers, in a military swag vest from Iraq, was in his office kicking around ideas for future projects. Unlike the ascendant nerds he mentioned, he tends to speak in a soldier's clipped language: ''Mission critical'' or ''Actionable outcomes.''
This, indeed, was a ''spitballing'' session, and the plans being tossed around revealed where he would like to go next with his team. One idea was to analyze, and hopefully reduce, the time it takes for the city to issue permits to new small businesses. Another was to create a public version of the Web site Walkscore.com, on which ordinary people rate the walkability of their cities.
His most ambitious plan was a proposal to move beyond public information into the deeper and possibly more profitable mine of social-media data. Every day, he said, there are 250,000 New York-centric posts on Twitter alone -- some concerning trash complaints, others unsanitary restaurant conditions. ''If Young & Rubicam can use tweets to sell you stuff,'' he hypothetically asked, ''why can't the city use them to make you less sick?''
This makes civil libertarians uncomfortable, particularly at a time when the Police Department's chief Big Data project -- its use of the Compstat system to guide stop-and-frisk -- is being questioned by the courts. Mr. Flowers insists that he has put in place safeguards, like keystroke logs on his employees' computers, to ensure that information is not abused. Still, groups like the New York Civil Liberties Union say that they are watching public data mining with a guarded, if optimistic, eye.
''I think that the Bloomberg administration's attention to data has enormous potential for good,'' Donna Lieberman, the executive director of the union, said. ''Obviously, it means that the city can make and tweak policies based on reality. But the potential for the selective use and release of data is one aspect that raises concern.''
Another, at least for Mr. Flowers, is whether his geek squad will survive the end of Mr. Bloomberg's tech-friendly tenure. For now, he said, he is proceeding under the assumption that it will, adding that the best way to ensure its viability is to create an appetite among city agencies for the analytical work his group produces.
''We know that there will always be a Fire Department, a Finance Department, a Department of Buildings,'' Mr. Flowers said. ''So hopefully by building a common data infrastructure that shares information in real time, it won't matter who sits in City Hall.''
Working in his favor is the firm belief among information activists that Big Data's moment, especially in the management of cities, has powerfully and irreversibly arrived. This is a conviction based on certain technological advancements and a discernible shift in how the younger generation sees its relationship to government.
What used to be about passively receiving services and dictates is now about participation, said Jennifer Pahlka, the executive director of Code for America, a volunteer group of techies that helps city governments, including New York City's, write code for public projects.
''Young people, because of social media, have always felt they've had a voice,'' Ms. Pahlka said. ''They're coming from the assumption that government is a hackable system -- an operating system that can be optimized. It's in their DNA, and they just go and do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Flowers, top right, oversees a small group of techsavvy and civic-minded statisticians working across from City Hall. ''All we do,'' he said, is ''process massive amounts of information and use it to do things more effectively.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mr. Flowers worked in Iraq in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLLECTION OF MICHAEL FLOWERS) (MB6) DRAWING: The Office of Policy and Strategic Planning -- their supervisor calls them the Get Stuff Done Folks -- produces an almost molecular understanding of New York City. (DRAWING BY QUICKHONEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (75%); STATISTICS (73%); BIG DATA (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%); VIRUSES (71%); H1N1 INFLUENZA (71%); HURRICANES (68%); BUDGETS (63%); INFLUENZA (62%); WRITERS (61%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (54%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



782 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1400 words

HEADLINE: Staking a Claim in South America

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Taylor Barnes contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro

 BODY:
THE BUZZ IS LOUD these days about South Americans buying Miami and New York condos at a furious pace, helping to stoke high-end residential boomlets in those cities. But back home, their own real estate markets have started to lure investment from big-name American real estate companies.
Developers like the Related Group of Florida, in a joint venture with the Related Companies based in New York, and Donald J. Trump, as well as real estate investors like the billionaire Sam Zell, are working to build residential housing and commercial spaces in Brazil, Uruguay and Colombia.
For decades, those countries were not seen as very safe bets by many foreign real estate developers. Now Brazil, especially, has become the object of a lot of attention. Take a gander at the numbers and you quickly understand why. 
The average price of a four-bedroom apartment in Ipanema, one of the posh beach neighborhoods in Rio de Janeiro, rose nearly sixfold from 2008 to 2012, exceeding $2.5 million. The rise was helped by hype over large offshore oil finds and the announcement that Rio had won the 2016 Olympics. Even in Rio's grittier downtown, one-bedroom apartments saw a threefold increase in sales price in those years. In São Paulo, Brazil's largest city, average residential prices doubled during that period, to $335 per square foot. Construction of residential buildings, especially in São Paulo, where I lived in 2011 in the latter part of my time as a correspondent in Brazil, seemed to be nonstop only a few years ago. In the upscale neighborhood of Itaim Bibi I was literally surrounded by the construction of high-end condo buildings, with workers toiling away on Saturdays and sometimes Sundays.
In the past Brazilians with money may have been thinking solely about how to park it outside their country. Today rising incomes and one of the longest sustained periods of economic stability in the country's history have given many Brazilians the confidence to invest at home as well.
''Someone from the interior of Brazil, who in the past would have bought a home in Paris or New York, will now buy it in Rio,'' said José Conde Caldas, president of the Association of Directors of Real Estate Companies in Rio de Janeiro, who predicts strong growth at least through the 2016 Rio Olympics. In his 41 years in real estate, he added, ''this is the best time of all the times.''
The hot Rio property market ''has much more to do with demographics than any one-time events like the Olympics,'' said Pedro Seixas de Corrêa, a professor at the Getúlio Vargas Foundation in Rio who lectures on real estate management. ''This is because of the country's rising incomes.''
Fortunes were made in the recent economic boom. São Paulo and Rio are now the 9th- and 10th-ranked cities in the world for high-net-worth individuals with at least $30 million in wealth, according to Knight Frank, a real estate company in London.
But are those times ending? Lately, sales of new residential properties have tapered off. In both Rio and São Paulo the number of new residential development units peaked in 2010. Residential sales in São Paulo fell by nearly 5 percent last year.
Construction costs are rising, in large part from a shortage of skilled labor that is causing construction delays. In Rio, costs rose by 39 percent per square foot over the past five years.
''This is a serious problem,'' Mr. Caldas said, adding that developers were recruiting laborers from other Brazilian states. The end next month of a major project to upgrade Maracanã soccer stadium for the 2014 World Cup should free up some 6,000 laborers.
The political will to cut down on red tape and keep the construction boom going seems to be there, at least in Rio, Roberto Kauffmann, president of Rio's Civil Engineering Industry Syndicate, said in a recent interview in Rome, where he spoke to Italian investors about opportunities in Rio. ''We have created conditions to be able to overcome bureaucracy,'' he said.
In any event the challenges haven't dissuaded developers like Jorge Pérez, chairman of Related Group, based in Miami, who is making a sizable bet on Brazil's need for new upscale housing over the next decade. Related established a Brazilian subsidiary a year ago and is developing its first mixed-use projects in São Paulo, with an eye to the Rio market as well.
''São Paulo had a period of overbuilding and has quieted down the past few years,'' Mr. Pérez said. But ''we feel that Brazil over the next decade will have a much greater growth rate than the United States, and definitely than Europe. There will be bumps on the road, like all development markets.''
Related Brasil is investing $100 million in a multitower mixed-use complex in the upscale neighborhood of Morumbi. It will have condominiums, offices, retail space and a hotel. The first phase, expected to begin construction next year, will have five towers with 672 units. The second will be even larger, he said. Mr. Pérez described the apartments as ''upper-middle-class condos'' in buildings with swimming pools, gardens, tennis courts and ''acres of green space.''
Related's Brazilian development partner, Bueno Netto Construction, is also investing $100 million, Mr. Pérez said. The project awaits approval by Brazilian officials, but Mr. Pérez hopes to start advance marketing on it within the next 90 days.
Related is also working on two other luxury projects in São Paulo, and is scouring Rio for opportunities in the Port Zone, which the city is revitalizing.
Among those involved with Related Brasil is Clifford Sobel, a former American ambassador, who wrote in a 2007 diplomatic cable, released by Wikileaks and reported by a Brazilian watchdog publication, that ''the honeymoon is just beginning'' for American investors in Brazil's real estate market. Mr. Sobel called former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva ''the best president for the real estate sector that Brazil has ever had.'' Mr. Sobel wrote the enthusiastic message after a meeting with the president of Cyrela, one of the largest residential developers in the country.
In Rio, the Trump Organization is licensing the Trump name for a multi-billion-dollar office complex in the Port Zone area, which is intended to be a posh new urban center with tens of thousands of residents. The project, which Trump is working on with the Bulgarian developer MRP International, will encompass five towers with a total of 4.5 million square feet of commercial space, said Donald Trump, Jr., who is overseeing the project. ''It may be the largest urban office development in all of the BRIC countries,'' he said, using the acronym for Brazil, Russia, India and China.
Although the developers are still waiting on some government approvals, Mr. Trump expects at least one of the towers to be completed by the Olympics in three years.
Next door to Brazil, in Uruguay, Trump is lending its name to a luxury condo building in the resort playground of Punta del Este. The $100 million development, which will have 129 apartments on 25 floors, will overlook the beach. Sales started in January. So far potential buyers include Americans, Uruguayans, Argentines, Brazilians and Europeans, said Eric Trump, who is overseeing it.
Prices for standard units will range from $650,000 to $2.5 million. The penthouses, which will have 6,500 to 8,600 square feet of space and private pools and spas, have yet to be priced. A Trump spokeswoman would not say how many apartments were already under contract.
Other Americans making real estate investments in Latin America include Mr. Zell. Through Equity International, which he founded with Gary Garrabrant in 1999, Mr. Zell is investing in real estate--related companies around the world, in countries including Brazil and Colombia.
Equity International has an investment in a residential builder based in the southern Brazilian city of Curitiba. And in Colombia, a country beset over past decades by rebel attacks that left many foreign investors skittish, Equity International has a $75 million investment in Bogotá-based Terranum Corporate Properties, which is developing a two-million-square-foot mixed-use complex near Bogotá's El Dorado International Airport.
Tom Heneghan, the chief executive of Equity International, said interest in Colombia was growing among global real estate investors. ''The marketplace will begin to get more crowded, as we've seen in Brazil,'' he predicted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Uruguay, the Trump Organization is licensing its name to a luxury condo building, above, in Punta del Este. Related Brasil and a partner are building a mixed-use complex, right, in the upscale Morumbi neighborhood of São Paulo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RELATED BRASIL
 YY DEVELOPMENT GROUP) (RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (94%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); OLYMPICS (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); HISTORY (69%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (52%)

COMPANY: THE RELATED GROUP (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (72%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (72%)

PERSON: SAMUEL ZELL (79%); DONALD TRUMP (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); URUGUAY (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); FRANCE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



783 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; DOWNLOAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Mohsin Hamid

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY. 
Kate Murphy is a journalist in Houston who writes frequently for The New York Times.

 BODY:
Mohsin Hamid, a Pakistani writer, is the author, most recently, of ''How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia.'' The film adaptation of his best-selling book, ''The Reluctant Fundamentalist,'' will be in theaters April 26. 
READING I'm often reading multiple books at the same time. They are for different moods. It's kind of like surfing the Web and having multiple windows open at the same time, only in a much slower fashion. I've just begun ''Basti,'' a novel by one of the great Urdu-language fiction writers, Intizar Husain. ''Basti'' means village, so I suspect it will have to do with a village as a microcosm for India and Pakistan's partition and the different religions that used to coexist within them.
And I'm about halfway into ''Lightning Rods,'' by Helen DeWitt, which is also fiction. It's a story told in business-ese about a man who comes up with the idea that he should install women in offices whom men can have sex with, thereby reducing the risk of sexual harassment. Thank goodness it's written by a woman. I think it would be less appealing to read if it were written by a man. It's just outrageous and really quite unusual. I think and hope that it's a very sharp critique of sexual politics and market-based economy gone mad.
LISTENING John Lee Hooker is one of my all-time favorites. I've been listening to him since I was a teenager growing up in Pakistan and got into the blues. In a weird way, Lahore is a big river city like the various American cities that have to do with the Mississippi. Blues territory, in other words. The blues is pitched with the emotions and resonance and feeling of a lot of Punjabi folk music, which is what I grew up with.
WATCHING ''Zero Dark Thirty.'' It's a very well-made film. But I didn't particularly feel there was a humanization of Pakistan and that part of the world. Of course, there needn't be. So I guess on its own terms, it was a successful film, but perhaps its success was in a direction that was different from my own sensibilities.
FOLLOWING 3QuarksDaily.com. I think it's one of the most interesting aggregator blogs out there. It puts together stuff from art, science, philosophy, politics, literature. It's a completely international, cosmopolitan place to get information. It's become my entry point to reading on the Web.
CUSHIONING I tend to walk a lot -- an hour and a half every morning. At some point I developed a pain in my foot. I was in New York and went to this really great shoe store called Eneslow on Park Avenue South, and the salesman recommended these Birko Balance cork inserts to put in my shoes. They are just fantastic -- a real walking enabler.
COMPUTING I'm pretty Appled up: iPhone, iPad, Air. Kind of disturbed by that, actually. I fell in love with the underdog and now they've become this world-dominant thing. It was like I was rooting for the 13 colonies and somebody handed me the United States superpower.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIEGO IBARRA SANCHEZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (91%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (66%); CITY LIFE (62%); CITIES (62%); RELIGION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (93%); ASIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



784 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2786 words

HEADLINE: Going It Alone, Together

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
SOON after landing a job at a Manhattan law firm nearly 20 years ago, Sara Horowitz was shocked to discover that it planned to treat her not as an employee, but as an independent contractor.
''I saw right away that something wasn't kosher,'' Ms. Horowitz recalls. Her status meant no health coverage, no pension plan, no paid vacation -- nothing but a paycheck. She realized that she was part of a trend in which American employers relied increasingly on independent contractors, temporary workers, contract employees and freelancers to cut costs. Somewhat bewildered, somewhat angry, she and two other young lawyers who were also hired as independent contractors jokingly formed what they called the ''Transient Workers Union,'' with the facetious motto, ''The union makes us not so weak.''
Ms. Horowitz's grandfather was a vice president of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union, and her father was a labor lawyer. So it was perhaps not surprising that she responded to her rising outrage by deciding to organize a union. What she organized, however, was a newfangled version. The Freelancers Union, with its oxymoronic name, is a motley collection of workers in the fast-evolving freelance economy -- whether lawyers, software developers, graphic artists, accountants, consultants, nannies, writers, editors, Web site designers or sellers on Etsy. 
Today, the Freelancers Union is one of the nation's fastest-growing labor organizations, with more than 200,000 members, over half of them in New York State. Ms. Horowitz, who has never lacked audacity, says she expects to expand the organization to one million members within three years. For some perspective, the United Automobile Workers union currently has 380,000 members. Of course, while hundreds of thousands of auto jobs have disappeared, the country is awash in freelancers and other independent workers. Studies by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Government Accountability Office show that there are more than 20 million of them. Many companies, including The New York Times, employ these workers.
The Freelancers Union, which is based in Brooklyn, doesn't bargain with employers, but it does address what is by far these workers' No. 1 concern, by providing them with affordable health insurance. Its health insurance company covers 23,000 workers in New York State and has $105 million in annual revenue. Impressed by that success, the Obama administration recently awarded Ms. Horowitz's group $340 million in low-interest loans to establish cooperatives in New York, New Jersey and Oregon that will provide health coverage to freelancers and tens of thousands of other workers.
Having health insurance makes it far easier to be a part of what Ms. Horowitz calls the ''gig economy.'' But many freelancers would prefer not to participate in that economy at all. They would rather have regular jobs, but companies will often hire them only as independent contractors. Companies find these workers less painful to dismiss and generally less costly because they rarely receive severance pay or benefits like health insurance or paid vacations.
''There are some freelancers for whom this is great -- they love the flexibility,'' Ms. Horowitz said. ''And there are some freelancers for whom this is the worst thing in the world.''
While being an independent worker allows certain advantages -- you can go to yoga class or on vacation whenever you want -- it also means economic vulnerability. An internal Freelancers Union survey found that 58 percent of the group's members earn less than $50,000 a year from freelancing and that 29 percent earn less than $25,000. The survey also found that 12 percent of members, many of them college graduates in their 30s and 40s, received food stamps during the recession.
''In today's economy, there's a huge chunk of the middle class that's being pushed down into the working class and working poor,'' Ms. Horowitz says, ''and freelancers are the first group that's happening to.''
Historically, through the power of collective bargaining, labor unions helped reverse that equation, enabling many unskilled workers to earn middle-class incomes. But as traditional labor unions have steadily declined in size and power, groups like the Freelancers Union, the New York Taxi Workers Alliance and Domestic Workers United have stepped up, trying to give collective voice and power to often-marginalized workers.
Some union old-timers argue that the Freelancers Union is more like an association than a union and will not be able to achieve truly significant gains for workers. Its members don't pay union dues, which means that joining requires no sacrifice, and the Freelancers Union doesn't negotiate contracts with employers or represent freelancers when they have grievances. (Under the National Labor Relations Act, freelancers are considered independent contractors, not employees, and employers thus have no obligation to bargain with them, even when they form a union.)
Ms. Horowitz, 50 and a Brooklyn native, insists that her organization is indeed a labor union because, like other unions, it is a large, influential, self-supporting organization of workers that pushes to advance their interests, although its members work for numerous employers in many industries.
''It reminds me of the old guilds'' -- the precursors of modern-day labor unions -- ''that focused on workers' individual autonomy, trying to build their own careers, with the backing of a collective organization to assist them,'' says Janice R. Fine, a professor of employment relations at Rutgers University. ''Sara is terrific at adapting old ideas to help today's work force.''
ON a recent rainy morning, a half-dozen members of the Freelancers Union met in a large yoga and meditation studio. The studio was inside a 6,000-square-foot health clinic in Downtown Brooklyn that the union opened for its members in November. It is in a century-old loft building, with bright lights and blond-wood floors, its walls covered with the Freelancers Union's posters featuring its logo of buzzing bees around a hive.
The freelancers were there to talk with Ms. Horowitz about how the clinic was doing and how it could be improved. They seemed to like a lot: the on-site nutritionist and acupuncturist; the fact that they rarely had to wait more than 10 minutes to see a doctor; and that they could consult with a doctor from home using Skype if necessary. They also liked that there were no co-pays.
Using the clinic is free for those have signed up with the Freelancers Insurance Company; premiums range from $225 to $603 a month -- 40 percent less than individual plans available in New York, according to a comparison by the union.
''It's nice to have one place where I can focus on health care,'' Dani Simons, a communications and strategic consultant, said at the meeting, ''instead of having to go one place to see this doctor and another place for that doctor.''
The clinic has an unusual team approach. There are two full-time doctors and eight ''health coaches,'' who serve as liaisons between patient and doctor. Ms. Horowitz says this focus on primary care will save money over time. By tracking members who have special diets or are taking medications, for example, the health coaches can help patients stay healthy and avoid costly hospital stays for failing to follow a treatment plan.
''If we were a for-profit insurance company, we would not be able to provide all these services,'' Ms. Horowitz says. ''We're able to steer the profits back into serving the freelancers.''
About 2,200 of the insurance company's policy holders have signed up for the clinic, while the other 21,000, much like members of other insurance plans, see doctors through a network, Empire Blue Cross, with which the Freelancers Union contracts.
When Ms. Horowitz started the union, her main concern was the here-today, gone-tomorrow insecurity of freelance jobs. But after listening to many freelancers, she changed her mind. ''I saw that their overwhelming concern was the lack of health insurance, even though I hadn't seen that as a major issue,'' she says.
To create the Freelancers Insurance Company, Ms. Horowitz needed to persuade investors to put up $17 million. The Rockefeller Foundation and others gave $7 million in grants, and other foundations joined in, agreeing to lend the rest at a 3 percent interest rate.
''She saw that labor unions basically haven't innovated for several generations, and in the meantime the world has changed and there were tremendous needs that weren't being met,'' says Bill Drayton, founder of Ashoka, a nonprofit foundation that invests in social entrepreneurs.
The health insurance profits that don't go toward repaying lenders go into a reserve to strengthen the company's finances, though some future profits will eventually be recycled into running the daily operations of the Freelancers Union and future projects, like a planned health clinic in Manhattan. The union gets $2 million a year from application and enrollment fees its members pay to get discounted life, dental and disability insurance that the union arranges through an outside insurer.
Together, the union and its health insurance company have a staff of 80, and Ms. Horowitz receives a salary of $272,000 for her dual role as head of the union and the insurance company. She notes proudly that while health insurance premiums rose by 5 percent, on average, for Americans this year, the Freelancers Insurance Company is not raising premiums at all for its policy holders.
Jo-Ann Mort, who worked for many years in communications for labor unions and foundations, said it was thanks to the new insurance company that she was able to start her own communications and fund-raising firm. ''I was scared to go out on my own because I was worried I couldn't find affordable insurance elsewhere,'' she said. ''Sara made that possible.''
In many ways, Ms. Horowitz operates more like an entrepreneur than an old-style union leader, says Kyle Zimmer, chairwoman of the health care cooperative that the union is forming in Oregon.
''She identified that health insurance was a gigantic gaping hole for these workers,'' said Ms. Zimmer, who is also president of First Book, a nonprofit group that provides access to books for children in need, ''and she stepped into that space, navigated through difficult waters and created a successful insurance company that takes on traditional insurers.''
''She did this in a way,'' Ms. Zimmer added, ''that would make anyone who believes in private enterprise proud.''
While the union is praised for helping to deliver health and other benefits to its members, some employment experts question whether it can make real headway in raising incomes of independent workers. ''All the self-help they do seems good and creative,'' says Gordon Lafer, a professor of labor relations at the University of Oregon. ''The question is can they get any leverage to get a fair shake from employers, to get companies to give a fair share of their profits to freelancers? They may need to be more creative to do that.''
The freelancers assembled in the yoga studio had plenty of suggestions, large and small, for Ms. Horowitz. Why schedule yoga classes on Monday mornings when people are already feeling mellow from the weekend? Shouldn't the doctors have a checklist when they see patients? Why can't freelancers who shun junk food and alcohol pay lower premiums? Can the Freelancers Union build affordable housing for financially squeezed freelancers?
''It would be great if there were a network of clinics like this in big cities around the country,'' said Ms. Simons, the communications consultant. ''It would be really cool. We often have to travel to other cities.''
Ms. Horowitz, her hands folded, listened.
ON the wall in front of Ms. Horowitz's desk is a dusty, decades-old photo of Sidney Hillman. The head of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America from 1914 to 1946, Hillman is the model for an idea Ms. Horowitz is talking about a lot these days, something she calls ''the new mutualism.''
Hillman was an influential adviser to Franklin D. Roosevelt and spent much of his life translating his mutualist vision into reality. He built low-cost housing and a health clinic for garment workers as well as a union-owned bank and insurance company.
''How did Sidney Hillman know to do housing and insurance?'' asks Ms. Horowitz, who has a degree in labor relations from Cornell. ''He just listened to people and helped solve their problems.''
Ms. Horowitz's new mutualism is based on a simple premise: freelancers should band together to set up social-purpose institutions to serve their mutual needs. That, she says, would be far better than relying on corporations and private investors who might have different priorities, not to mention a desire for substantial profits.
This idea, she acknowledges, is not new. But with the changing economy, the decline of organized labor, the end of paternalism among employers and the shrinking role of government, she says, the conditions are ripe for embracing mutual aid societies anew. ''The social unionism of the 1920s had it right,'' she says. ''They said: 'We serve workers 360 degrees. It's not just about their work. It's about their whole life.' We view things the same way.''
''Whether you like it or don't like it, it's unlikely we're going to see growth in government over the next few years,'' she says. ''But we're not going to see any reduction in social needs for workers. And we need these social-purpose institutions in place to serve their growing social needs.''
Her ideas have gained traction beyond the usual worker-advocacy crowd. She received a ''genius'' grant from the MacArthur Foundation in 1999. She has been invited to speak at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the Aspen Institute and the Harvard Business School. She was recently appointed to the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Ms. Horowitz's new mutualism also benefits from her political connections. She has close ties to Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York, and to Sheldon Silver, speaker of the New York State Assembly. Senator Gillibrand, for instance, at Ms. Horowitz's request, is pushing to have the Bureau of Labor Statistics count the number of independent contractors and freelancers nationwide. And the State Assembly, though not the Senate, passed a bill that would authorize the State Labor Department to crack down on companies that fail to pay freelancers as promised.
A few years ago, the union persuaded New York City to eliminate the unincorporated business tax for independent workers who earn less than $100,000 a year -- a move that saves freelancers up to $3,400 annually. (Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said later that he had ''successfully advocated for reducing or eliminating the unincorporated business tax'' for ''freeloaders and contractors,'' a verbal stumble that Ms. Horowitz found hilarious.)
MS. HOROWITZ has seen how the post-New Deal model of employers providing health insurance, pensions and other benefits is breaking down. More and more workers, and not just freelancers, have been left to fend for themselves in dealing with sickness, accidents and old age. One result, she says, is that many workers feel trapped, hesitant to change jobs or start a business for fear of losing health insurance or other benefits.
''We want people to have meaningful independence,'' Ms. Horowitz says. ''And that means freeing them of this insecurity to give them the ability to take risks because somebody has your back. That's what this is about. That's what the new mutualism is.''
In this new mutualism, she sees another, largely unrecognized benefit for freelancers, those supposedly pajama-clad workers who often spend their days toiling at home alone. ''People feel mentally and physically better when they feel connected to each other,'' she says. ''What we're doing brings people together without them losing any individual aspects of themselves.''
At times, she has been accused of arrogance, and that perhaps stems from her often speaking with self-certainty. ''What I'm good at is intuition,'' she says. ''I have a sense of what's going to work and what's not going to work.''
In discussing her family's labor legacy, Ms. Horowitz noted that her daughter was born on the birthday of Samuel Gompers -- the father of the modern American labor movement. Ms. Horowitz sees him, too, as a role model.
''If Gompers were alive today,'' she says, ''he'd be trying to figure out what the next models are for today's workers.''
REWORKING LABOR: Articles in this series examine the changing face of labor as the nation's unions and collective bargaining rights decline.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sara Horowitz, executive director of the Freelancers Union, at its headquarters in Brooklyn. ''We want people to have meaningful independence,'' she says of its more than 200,000 members. (BU1)
Freelance Union employees working on a spreadsheet at headquarters. The union and the insurance company together employ a staff of 80 people. Below, stethoscopes adorned a wall of the union's 6,000-square-foot health clinic, which opened for members in November.
 A patient received treatment at the Freelancers Union's health clinic, which recently opened in Brooklyn. The union also runs a health insurance company to meet freelancers' primary concern: affordable care. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW QUILTY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (92%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); LAWYERS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); MIGRANT WORKERS (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (71%); STATISTICS (71%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); VISUAL ARTS (65%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (65%); WRITERS (65%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



785 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; HINDSIGHT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: There's A Reason For Deposit Insurance

BYLINE: By ROGER LOWENSTEIN. 
Roger Lowenstein is writing a book on the origins of the Federal Reserve.

 BODY:
FOR all the criticism of bailouts since the financial crisis struck, virtually no one has suggested that depositors in banks be made to suffer along with their investors, employees and customers. Until this week, when the euro zone proposed that, in return for a bailout of the failing banking system in Cyprus, depositors pay a ''tax'' of 6.75 percent of their deposits -- 9.9 percent for deposits above 100,000 euros.
Because bank deposits in Cyprus, and virtually everywhere, are insured, the plan shocked many people who figured that this insurance was the one financial safety net that was still truly ''safe.'' 
The Cypriot Parliament shot down the plan, though a smaller hit to depositors -- many of whom are wealthy foreigners -- was still in the offing late last week. Yet the tempest in the eastern Mediterranean is a reminder that depositors, in fact, are also creditors of banks and are potentially at risk.
In the United States, deposit insurance is viewed as sacrosanct. But even here, such plans haven't always worked, and at least until recent times they have been contentious.
If the nation has a father of bank insurance, it is Joshua Forman, one of the promoters of the Erie Canal. Early in the 19th century, New York State had a string of bank failures, and Martin Van Buren, then governor, asked him to restructure the banking industry. Forman's insight was that banks were vulnerable to chain-reaction panics. As he put it -- in a line unearthed by the Harvard Business School historian David Moss -- ''banks constitute a system, being peculiarly sensitive to one another's operations, and not a mere aggregate of free agents.''
In 1829, Forman proposed an insurance fund capitalized by mandatory contributions from the state's banks. Debate in the State Assembly was heated. Critics said failures could overwhelm the fund; they also argued that its very existence would reduce the ''public scrutiny and watchfulness'' that restrained bankers from reckless lending. This remains the intellectual argument against insurance today. But Forman's plan was enacted, and subsequently five other states adopted plans.
All did not go smoothly. In the 1840s, during a national depression, 11 banks in New York State failed and the insurance fund -- as prophesied -- was threatened with insolvency. The state sold bonds to bail it out.
After the Civil War and the establishment of nationally chartered banks, the state insurance systems were allowed to die. But banking panics and money shortages in the 1870s and '80s revived the issue. Republicans thought the way to stop panics was to establish a central bank. Democrats were inveterate central-bank haters, but they needed a solution. William Jennings Bryan, the party's three-time presidential nominee, called for deposit insurance, especially to protect small depositors.
Bryan lost the elections, but he won a victory of sorts on insurance. In 1907, a Wall Street panic led to a depression, and banks nationwide resorted to doling out scrip rather than cash. With the economy still in free-fall, Oklahoma adopted deposit insurance. Republicans were hotly opposed. President William Howard Taft, running against Bryan for president in 1908, said the Oklahoma law ''put a premium on reckless banking.'' The industry predicted that the system would fail. Depositors, argued James Laughlin, a banking expert of the day, should rely on the ''skill, integrity and good management'' of bankers.
Oklahomans thought otherwise. So great was the demand for insurance that Oklahoma banks with national charters liquidated and reorganized as state banks to participate. In fact, people in neighboring Kansas began to deposit in Oklahoma, forcing Kansas to enact a similar plan. Ultimately, eight states adopted insurance.
Their experience, alas, bore out the critics' warnings. Depressed farm prices led to waves of bank failures in the 1920s, and one by one state systems folded.
When bank failures reached epidemic proportions in the Great Depression, the idea was revived. Again, the industry opposed it -- as did Franklin D. Roosevelt, who said insurance ''would lead to laxity in bank management and carelessness on the part of both banker and depositor.'' Insurance was to be financed by premiums from banks. Still, because it was guaranteed by the government, Roosevelt feared that it could bankrupt the Treasury.
But popular opinion prevailed. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was created in 1933, protecting deposits up to $2,500. Over time, the insured limit rose to $100,000. (And it more than doubled, to $250,000, in the recent crisis.)
The system worked -- for a while. In the 1970s, finance was deregulated, interest rates turned volatile and savings and loan associations (protected by another agency) took huge risks. Hundreds of S.& L.'s failed, and their insurer became insolvent. Taxpayers had to fork over more than $100 billion.
To critics, the S.& L. fiasco proved that insurance was a flawed concept. The problem wasn't insurance per se, but that premiums weren't high enough -- nor were they adjusted according to the risk presented by individual banks. (By the same principle, any rational auto insurer will charge a higher premium for an 18-year-old with a D.U.I.)
INCREDIBLY, Congress didn't learn its lesson. After recovery from the S.& L. crisis, Congress, lulled by an improving climate, succumbed to bankers who called the F.D.I.C. overfinanced. Premiums were cut to zero for banks judged to be well capitalized.
Again, the good times didn't last. In 2009, in the financial crisis, the F.D.I.C. fund was underwater. Net assets -- $53 billion before the crash -- fell to a negative $21 billion. The agency crawled back into the black by ordering banks to pay premiums in advance and by leveling a special assessment. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank law raised premiums, especially for bigger banks and for banks classified as riskier. No taxpayer money was used.
The F.D.I.C.'s deficit amounted to a failure of foresight, or courage, by Congress, but the system succeeded in the larger sense of heading off panics. Just imagine the crisis in confidence in 2008 had ordinary depositors feared for their money. Insurance proved to be worth its weight in gold.
Cyprus, alas, does not have the option of a national government bailout because it does not print its own money. Even if it rejects the euro zone's terms and bails out banks in some new local currency, that currency would not be worth much in international markets. So one way or another, its depositors are going to lose. Insurance plans are just as safe -- but cannot be any safer -- than the assets behind them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A bank run in New York in 1907, above, and a line at an A.T.M. in Nicosia, Cyprus, last week. The financial turmoil in Cyprus has been a reminder that depositors are creditors of banks and can thus be at risk. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE GRANTHAM BAIN COLLECTION/LIBRARY OF CONGRESS
 ANDREAS MANOLIS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); EURO ZONE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); HISTORY (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) CYPRUS (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); EUROPE (90%); MEDITERRANEAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



786 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1950 words

HEADLINE: Dream Big, Girl

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
''Matilda'' isn't just one of the most anticipated shows of the Broadway season. This new musical is the theater's latest shot at the dream of a global blockbuster, a rare glory that producers and audiences crave to offset all the duds that cross the stage each year.
An underdog story about a spunky British schoolgirl outwitting cruelty, ''Matilda'' has arrived red hot with the sort of acclaim, awards and ticket sales for its London production that indicate real potential to become a moneymaker and fan favorite in New York. Such success can confer the ''Broadway hit'' label, which is crucial for starting productions in Asia, South America and across the United States and Europe -- the tours where real fortunes are made. The dream is ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' which has grossed $5.6 billion worldwide since 1986. The dream is ''The Lion King'' ($5 billion since 1997) and ''Wicked'' ($3 billion since 2003). 
Whether ''Matilda'' will eventually join their ranks, after opening on April 11, is the high-stakes question of the theater season. Because, for all the hype about the musical in Britain and now in New York, no one can say with certainty that ''Matilda'' will become the next blockbuster, or the latest London hit that fell short of expectations on Broadway -- joining musicals like ''Billy Elliot,'' ''Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,'' and ''Blood Brothers.''
The answer hinges on whether the sensibility and sophistication of ''Matilda'' will translate to American audiences -- specifically the families and tourists who are the backbone of the billion-dollar Broadway industry, which depends on a handful of blockbuster shows to counter a couple of dozen failures each year.
Based on the 1988 children's novel by Roald Dahl, ''Matilda'' has the darkness and mordant tone of Dahl's best-known novels, ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'' and ''James and the Giant Peach,'' as the title character -- a 5-year-old genius -- faces off against parents who loath her, a barbaric headmistress and a classroom of ''revolting children'' (the title of one song). While many kids love nasty villains, Dahl portrays them in the extreme in ''Matilda,'' and the musical has subplots, dialogue and lyrics that are denser and more nuanced than most tales of good vs. evil.
''We knew that if you took a Disney musical sensibility to 'Matilda,' everyone who loves Roald Dahl -- not to mention the Dahl estate -- would have gotten pretty grumpy pretty quickly,'' said the musical's composer, Tim Minchin, the Australian comic and singer whose other songs for the show include ''Naughty,'' ''The Smell of Rebellion'' and ''When I Grow Up.''
Still, the creators of ''Matilda'' toyed with the idea of softening parts of the script or dropping the British accents for the Broadway version (as in the 1996 film adaptation by Danny DeVito), fully aware that they would be facing tough competition from other musicals with young heroines. The newly opened ''Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella'' is doing strong business, more than $1 million a week in ticket sales; the revival of ''Annie'' will get a boost from the arrival of Jane Lynch (''Glee'') as Miss Hannigan in May; and ''Wicked'' remains the top-grossing show most weeks on Broadway.
The Matilda team is still considering tweaks, but they put aside the notion of major changes once ''we realized that we'd go mad with second-guessing,'' said Matthew Warchus, the director.
''Nobody knows exactly how to make something work on Broadway, or how to guarantee a hit,'' said Mr. Warchus, who won a Tony directing ''God of Carnage'' in 2009 but whose last Broadway show ''Ghost,'' also a London-to-New York transfer, was a quick flop last year.
''The challenge with 'Matilda' was trying to guess the boundaries of a conventional musical and an unconventional musical,'' he continued. ''We knew if we drove down the middle of the road, we'd betray Roald Dahl's entire style and philosophy. But how far to the left can you veer without confusing and losing the audience with an unconventional show? And at the same time the economics of Broadway encourage conventionality rather than making beautiful art.''
With those economics in mind Mr. Warchus and the ''Matilda'' producers opted for a Plan B in hopes of a long run on Broadway: Limit the musical's weekly running costs as much as possible. In doing so they are hoping to avoid the surprising fate of another British musical with many children in the cast, ''Billy Elliot.''
That show opened on Broadway in November 2008 to smashing reviews, won 10 Tony Awards and recouped its $18 million investment, yet it closed in January 2012, sooner than most theater executives expected. While ticket sales had softened, they were still good. But the weekly running costs were so high, because of the large cast and the frequent dance rehearsals, that the producers moved on before putting their Broadway profits at risk.
To minimize costs for ''Matilda'' Mr. Warchus told his designers to add nothing for Broadway; usually British shows become more lavish when they transfer to New York. And he decided to have fewer rotating ensembles of child performers than either the London version of ''Matilda'' or the Broadway production of ''Billy Elliot.'' (''Matilda'' does have four girls rotating in the title role, similar to the multiple Billys in ''Billy Elliot.'') By relying instead on actors' rotating in multiple roles Mr. Warchus did not need to hire as many children, who can inflate budgets because of special needs like tutoring.
The weekly operating costs for ''Matilda'' are believed to be about $600,000, while the ''Billy Elliot'' nut was closer to $800,000.
One of the executive producers of ''Matilda'' in New York, André Ptaszynski, said the ''budget paring'' was critical because both the overall capitalization costs and weekly expenses can be three to four times greater than in London, in large part because of Broadway union contracts. Mounting the London production of ''Matilda'' cost £2.5 million, about $3.8 million, compared to the Broadway capitalization of $16 million.
''We've obviously looked really closely at the financial model of 'Billy Elliot' and, we think, came up with a business model that will work better,'' said Mr. Ptaszynski, who noted that sales were healthy, with ''Matilda'' grossing $835,432 for seven performances in the week ending last Sunday.
''Now what we're wondering is whether our 'Billy Elliot' problem will be that the show is too sophisticated, that in three years we won't be attracting all the families that keep going to 'Wicked,' '' Mr. Ptaszynski said. ''There's not a lot we can do there. It's not like budget cutting. This is the first musical by the author Dennis Kelly, who writes very adult plays, and Tim Minchin, whose jokes and phrasing have so many wonderful layers that they can make your head spin. There's plenty here for a literate audience, but will it appeal to a mass-market audience too?''
''Matilda'' was first envisioned as a pure crowd pleaser. The Royal Shakespeare Company asked Mr. Warchus to turn the novel into a Christmas show, but the director, a longtime Dahl fan and the father of young children, had greater ambitions, seeing ''Matilda'' as a property for all ages. The language and ideas in the storytelling were complex from the start.
Mr. Kelly, whose plays like ''Osama the Hero'' and ''Love and Money'' have explored violence and materialism, turned in early scripts for ''Matilda'' loaded with narration, while Matilda herself came across as passive. The narration was eventually junked, some minor characters cut, and Mr. Kelly tried to make Matilda more forthright by deploying her cleverness against meanspirited adults. Sharpening such scenes was such a labor that the show's premiere came more than a year after initially planned.
''It's very hard to find the right tone onstage or even in film for Dahl's darkness to be a commercial and critical hit,'' Mr. Kelly said, noting that even Tim Burton's 2005 film of ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,'' which was a box office success, had nit-picking critics about its translation of Dahl to the screen. ''That's partly why there are so few successful adaptations of his work.'' (A musical adaptation of ''Charlie and the Chocolate Factory'' is planned for London this summer.)
The search for a composer wasn't entirely smooth. Michael Boyd, the recently departed Royal Shakespeare leader who oversaw ''Matilda,'' recalled that Mr. Warchus initially wanted experienced musical songwriters, and had mentioned Jeanine Tesori and Jason Robert Brown -- both Americans. But Mr. Boyd said it would have been ''a shame'' if the British-made adaptation of a British story had a score by New Yorkers.
The company then gave Mr. Warchus a list of pop musicians and songwriters, but none had the wit he was looking for. Finally a company dramaturge suggested Mr. Minchin, who was on a concert tour in London, and Mr. Warchus bought a ticket.
''I thought Tim was audacious and quirky and smart in all the right ways, except for one: He wasn't emotional, and we wanted someone who could write music that made people cry,'' Mr. Warchus said. ''But then, for his encore, he played 'White Wine in the Sun,' his song about family at Christmas, and people were crying. That was it.''
For his part Mr. Minchin, who had previously written scores for some children's musicals in Australia, said his main struggle with ''Matilda'' lay with the lyrics.
''People were singing their feelings too explicitly at first, and it was horrendous,'' he said. ''The hard thing was that the two main characters who are stand-ins for the audience -- Matilda and her teacher Miss Honey -- were these opaque and passive characters who are massively abused. I needed to find a touch that was lighter, but also had the Dahl twistedness.''
Part of that touch came from Bertie Carvel, the British actor who won a best actor Olivier Award (the equivalent of a Tony) last year for his cross-dressing performance as Matilda's headmistress, Miss Trunchbull. Mr. Carvel's wicked glare, sneering tone, twitching body language and humorless sadism as Trunchbull were the talk of London theater; at his final performance there in July the crowd gave him a standing ovation -- less common in the West End than on Broadway -- and some audience members cried out his name.
Mr. Carvel, who is making his Broadway debut as Trunchbull, confessed to being nervous about how ''Matilda'' would be received by American audiences. But he felt a bit easier after the first few preview performances.
''They were laughing in the parts you'd expect, and I felt like they were listening closely to the parts of the story that aren't easy to absorb,'' Mr. Carvel said. ''I feel confident we're doing something special, and it's no help thinking about the expectations.''
Mr. Warchus, the director, is trying to put aside expectations as well. While he wants a big success, of course, he also doesn't want ''Matilda'' to be hurt if it doesn't live up to the buzz right away.
''The show's ethos is about humility, modesty, and I think of it as this little story with a quiet message -- not a show that bills itself as a big Broadway blockbuster,'' he said over tea at Sardi's recently. ''Most people have good intentions in talking up 'Matilda,' but it's jarring.''
As if on cue, over sauntered Robert E. Wankel of the Shubert Organization, a Broadway power broker with a showman's personality and the show's landlord.
''Matthew, 'Matilda' is going to be the biggest musical in town!'' Mr. Wankel exclaimed. ''The No. 1 new show!''
Mr. Warchus smiled as gamely as he could, before heading back to the theater to continue preparing ''Matilda'' for opening night.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Milly Shapiro, far right, in the title role of the musical ''Matilda,'' which hits Broadway from London with a huge buzz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
The creative team of ''Matilda'' -- top from left: the composer Tim Minchin, the director Matthew Warchus and the writer Dennis Kelly -- wanted to make the dark tones of the novel by Roald Dahl, above, broadly appealing. One lighter touch was the casting of Bertie Carvel as the mean Miss Trunchbull, left with Lauren Ward. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DUMANT/GETTY IMAGES
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Above right, the four actresses playing Matilda on Broadway: from left, Sophia Gennusa, Bailey Ryon, Oona Laurence and Milly Shapiro. Similarly Kiril Kulish, below, was one of multiple actors who rotated in the title role of the musical ''Billy Elliot.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); TICKET SALES (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (76%); EUROPE (56%); ASIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



787 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: Illustrating Her Own Narrative

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
Women who built careers as illustrators in ''Mad Men''-era New York were few and far between, and one is Barbara Nessim. In the early 1960s she became known for brightly colored pop portraits of women, made with fluid, expressive lines, which appeared in Esquire, Harper's Bazaar and girlie magazines. During feminism's rise in the early '70s her focus on women and gender roles drew the interest of publications covering women's issues, like Ms. (Gloria Steinem was once her roommate), New York and Time. In the '80s Ms. Nessim became one of the first illustrators to work with computers, which may be how she is best known today. 
Yet despite these contributions Ms. Nessim, 73, has never received her due. ''It used to be that as an illustrator you were shunned,'' she said, speaking of the gulf between fine and commercial art. ''People didn't think of it as an art form.'' But today, she added, the tide is turning. Largely driven by the Internet, she said, ''the world has opened up,'' and all sorts of barriers have been eroding. Now she is enjoying her first retrospective, ''Barbara Nessim: An Artful Life,'' which is at the Victoria and Albert Museum in London through May 19. Last month Abrams published the monograph, which uses photographs, sketchbooks and other examples from Ms. Nessim's scrupulously kept archives to examine her work from the beginning.
''She's clearly a major figure in American art and design, and illustration in particular,'' said Douglas Dodds, the museum's senior curator of digital art, who organized the show. He learned of Ms. Nessim nearly 10 years ago when he saw her work in an important computer-art collection that was later donated to the museum. After including several pieces in the 2009 survey show ''Digital Pioneers'' he visited Ms. Nessim's spacious studio in the West Village, and was struck by her wide array of styles and approaches. Before long, Mr. Dodds said, ''it became apparent that Barbara produced just so much wonderful material, and that someone, somewhere, desperately needed to mark that in some way with a retrospective.''
As Ms. Nessim showed a visitor around her studio, her versatility was on full display. Hovering on a wall like a pop Madonna was ''Star Girl Banded With Blue Wave,'' an editioned portrait of a futuristic-looking superheroine that Ms. Nessim made in 1966 for a Manhattan design store. On her desk sat several half-finished, surrealistic photographic collages of female facial features and body parts, reassembled as if to suggest ransom notes.
Then there was her most recent piece: a pastel portrait of David Bowie that the V&A Magazine had commissioned for the retrospective ''David Bowie Is.'' Her instructions were to present Mr. Bowie in his Ziggy Stardust phase, using the same style as her 1979 illustration of Joni Mitchell for a Playboy Jazz Festival program and to turn it around over a weekend. Being an illustrator means you ''rise to the challenge,'' she said.
Kind but intense, Ms. Nessim is quick to divulge personal anecdotes while also dispensing life philosophy -- perhaps an outcome of her 25-year teaching career at the School of Visual Arts and Parsons. She grew up in the Bronx with a mailman father and a fashion designer mother who had married late and worked full time -- an anomaly for the era. Ms. Nessim always knew she'd be an artist, but was determined to earn a living. ''I wanted to support myself before I got married,'' she said. ''And I wanted to know who I was before I got married. I had very specific ideas.''
Her ideas about art were hazier. In 1956, when she arrived at Pratt School of the Arts, Abstract Expressionism still reigned. Although she used abstraction for her class work, by her senior year she was also making small symbolic paintings populated with figures and stories from her own life, most featuring women. That's also when she began keeping a sketchbook and maintaining a daily stream-of-consciousness drawing practice, an approach more typically found among fine artists. ''That's basically where all my inspiration comes from,'' she said of her scores of sketchbooks. ''I don't edit myself because I want to know what I'm thinking.''
Fortuitously Ms. Nessim's approach, which combined self-discovery with the techniques and concerns of fine art, dovetailed perfectly with illustration's new era. While artists were moving toward performance and Pop art, illustrators were retreating from the realism and narrative storytelling that typified the '50s and borrowing styles and techniques from painters like Matisse and Picasso. ''The ways in which stories were told were becoming more conceptual, more psychological and emotional,'' said Stephanie Plunkett, the chief curator of the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., which chose Ms. Nessim as its first artist laureate in 2009. ''Barbara was part of that wave.''
Ms. Nessim's look, typified by a flowing, sensuous line and planes of brilliant color, was also distinctive. ''There was an economy to it, a sensuality to it,'' said the filmmaker Robert Benton, who was the art director at Esquire when Ms. Nessim emerged. ''It was both very naïve and very sophisticated.'' Art directors sought her work out precisely because it was not overtly commercial. With time they were also drawn to its female-centric focus.
''There was a whole underlayer of feminism in there that was part of the time, yet the way she handled it was very forward thinking,'' said the publication designer Roger Black. ''There was a lot more sex involved than doctrine.''
Ms. Nessim seemed to live quite a fabulous life in the '60s and '70s. She palled around with a fashion and media crowd that included the designer Zandra Rhodes and the actress Ali MacGraw. She even developed two fashion lines, one in 1965 devoted to Pucci-esque shirts, and a 1973 collection of fantastical shoes inspired by her notebook drawings.
Perhaps the most influential relationship Ms. Nessim forged during that time was her longstanding friendship with Ms. Steinem, her roommate for six years, long before Ms. Steinem had begun to define the women's movement. Back then, Ms. Steinem recalled, ''we were defying convention by not getting married, and not having children and doing work we loved and creating a very different life, but it was not yet consciously unusual.''
Ms. Nessim's sketchbooks of the time show her attempts to raise that consciousness: in them women are blinded by their sunglasses, straitjacketed by their clothes, or are forced to view the world through men's eyes. ''She helped me to realize subliminally,'' Ms. Steinem said, ''that in a male-centered world it was all right to include women equally, or more so.''
Ms. Nessim eventually married her childhood sweetheart, the real estate developer Jules Demchick, in 1980. That same year she decided she needed to get her hands on a computer, primarily as a way to make a database of her sketchbook drawings. Time Video Information Services created an artist-in-residence position for her in 1982, which allowed her to spend a year figuring out how to create images on a mainframe. Somehow, working within the limitations imposed by the technology of the time -- six graphic shapes that could be manipulated, six fixed colors and six grays -- Ms. Nessim managed to make pictures that were as sinuous and evocative as her hand-drawn imagery.
Since then many of her most powerful illustrations have combined the hand and machine, like a cover image she made for The New York Times Magazine in 1997 to illustrate an article on breast cancer, which suggests the curve of a breast with a single hand-drawn, computer-colored line.
''Usually people come to me,'' Ms. Nessim likes to say, ''when they don't know what they want.'' But it's clear that she herself has had a pretty good idea all along. ''I wanted a happy and fulfilling life,'' she said. ''And I got it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Left, Barbara Nessim at her studio. Top, her work ''Dream Still.'' Above, ''Do Women Always See the World Through the Eyes of Men?'' Below, clockwise from far left, ''Birdlike Shoe''
''Reclining Nude''
''David Bowie''
and ''Lennon Remembered.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BARBARA NESSIM
BARBARA NESSIM/VICTORIA AND ALBERT MUSEUM
 BARBARA NESSIM/V&A MAGAZINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); WOMEN (79%); ART COLLECTING (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



788 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1227 words

HEADLINE: A Once-Vibrant City Struggles as Panama Races Ahead on a Wave of Prosperity

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

 BODY:
COLÓN, Panama -- On one end of the Panama Canal, the nation's capital gleams with new skyscrapers; a subway, the first in Central America, is under construction; and new malls and restaurants fill with patrons. The city fancies itself a mini-Dubai on the Pacific.
Forty miles away on the other end of the canal, in the city of Colón by the Caribbean, rotting buildings collapse, sewage runs in alleyways, water service is jury-rigged, and crime and despair have sent protesters into the streets. Recently, Hollywood filmmakers made Colón, Panama's second-largest city, a stand-in for Haiti, the poorest country in the hemisphere.
Panama is booming, with an average economic growth of 9 percent in the past five years, the highest in Latin America. Banking and financial services and big public works projects like the subway and multibillion-dollar expansion of the canal have fed the good fortune.
Panama City, the capital, has the tallest building in Latin America, a 70-story Trump hotel and condo tower, and its skyscraper forest reflects the rush of foreign investment, real estate speculation, well-heeled foreign transplants and, American officials have said, some measure of drug money. 
But Panama can also lay claim to some of the starkest disparities of wealth in Latin America, according to the World Bank, and the persistent poverty in Colón, an hour's drive from the symbols of wealth in Panama City, remains a glaring, festering example inflaming friction here.
Colón, wedged between a busy port and a handsome cruise ship terminal, is a crowded, cacophonous city of 220,000, with street after street of faded colonial facades and concrete-block buildings with peeling paint and weeds growing out of some upper floors.
''There are hardly any jobs here,'' said Orlando Ayaza, 29, who works occasionally at the dock. ''Not ones with regular salary and benefits that we need here.'' He has a two-inch scar on his face that he attributes to a policeman's baton during unrest here last year.
When asked why he does not move to Panama City, he touched the dark skin on his arm. ''They see this, and you say you are from Colón, and they say, no way,'' he said. ''They think we are all thieves there.''
Colón is predominantly black, whereas Panama City's population is more of European descent, and many residents and analysts say they believe that racial discrimination has contributed to Colón's stagnation.
Such disparities are growing starker in rising economies like Peru, Brazil and Ecuador, said Ronn Pineo, a senior research fellow at the Council on Hemispheric Affairs who studies economic change in Latin America.
''Not every urban area has gone along with the growth,'' Mr. Pineo said. ''And if there is any kind of racial divide, it is hard for affluence to cross, with the poorer area tending to be one color.''
Mr. Pineo said he recently visited Colón and found it ''really depressing.''
Colón used to shine. In the early 1900s, during the construction of the canal, and after, it blossomed with theaters, clubs, restaurants and finely manicured boulevards. Old-timers recall distinguished visitors like Albert Einstein.
West Indian immigrants surged in, finding jobs at the canal and in American military instillations because they spoke English. But even then, discrimination was a given, with the black West Indians paid at a far lower rate -- silver roll versus gold roll, in the vernacular of the time -- than white workers.
''Racial exclusion has been a burden on the development of public policy related to black Panamanians in general and Colón in particular,'' said Jorge Luis Macías Fonseca, a professor of history at the University of Panama in Colón.
But as Panama City grew and modernized in the post-World War II era, Colón's luster wore off. The reduction and ultimate closing of American military bases with the canal's transfer to Panama in 1999 accelerated Colón's tailspin. Crime and poverty swelled, and middle-class strivers moved to the suburbs, Panama City or abroad.
Colón's duty-free trade zone, the largest in the Western Hemisphere, has done little to lift the town's fortunes. Recent development, including a hotel, an upgrade to an airport and a cruise ship dock that allows visitors to shop without entering the city's squalor, have benefited mostly the businesses in the zone, long a source of friction.
Surse Pierpoint, a vice president of the free-trade-zone business association, said the central government receives $100 million in annual revenue from the zone and spends it as it pleases. He said he did not know how many of the zone's 30,000 employees live in Colón, but acknowledged that many come from the suburbs and from Panama City.
''The free zone was never designed to carry the fate of Colón,'' Mr. Pierpoint said, suggesting that it would take ''out of the box thinking'' from the government, residents, businesses and others to revive the city's fortunes.
Last October, there were protests when President Ricardo Martinelli, a supermarket tycoon who has made business development a centerpiece of his term, pushed through a law allowing the sale of state land next to the free zone. Residents interpreted the move as a prelude to expanding the zone and displacing them, and several people died in the unrest.
Mr. Martinelli has since backed off the idea, and this year he began a dialogue with Colón residents, who presented a 33-point list of demands including new housing, jobs and an end to the city's perennial flooding, sewage seepage and chronic lack of potable water. Just last week, several schools were closed in and around the city because of problems at a treatment plant. Spider webs of plastic tubing and wires hang from buildings, signs of improvised water and power connections.
The dialogue hit an impasse in January, said Edgardo Voitier, the president of the Broad Front for Colón, a group of residents that has held more protests. A main sticking point, he said, was the government's refusal to guarantee that the proceeds of the land sale would stay in Colón.
Mr. Martinelli's office did not respond to messages seeking comment.
The government has argued that projects like a new highway connecting Panama and Colón, the expansion of the canal, construction of a new hospital in Colón and other public works have reduced unemployment and poverty. This month, the government announced a $9 million project to rehabilitate Colón's seaside park.
But Mr. Voitier dismissed such projects as sources of only temporary employment that would do little for the large number of people with informal jobs.
Some Colón boosters have mustered their own piecemeal efforts, tired of waiting for a government rescue. Kurt Dillon, an architect and urban planner, has led a coalition to save and restore some of the crumbling buildings in the city's historic core, recently drawing dozens of preservationists to write a plan with the help of the World Monuments Fund, an independent nonprofit group. ''Civil society has to get things done here,'' he said.
Despite the lures of Panama City, many residents have no interest in abandoning a place that is home.
''If we all go to Panama City, what's left here?'' said Alma Franklin, 25. She has worked at fast food stores and struggles to feed her three children, but has no faith that the government will help her. ''This country,'' she said, ''would prefer to forget Colón.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Wilcox building, once an architectural landmark in Colón, Panama, is now condemned. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CITIES (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CRUISES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); RACE & RACISM (60%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PANAMA (97%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); HAITI (79%); ECUADOR (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



789 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: Pity Earth's Creatures

BYLINE: By EDWARD HOAGLAND. 
A longtime nature and travel writer, and the author of the forthcoming novel ''Children Are Diamonds: An African Apocalypse.''

 BODY:
Edgartown, Mass.
AESOP, the fabulist and slave who, like Scheherazade, may have won his freedom by the magic of his tongue and who supposedly shared the Greek island of Samos with Pythagoras 2,500 years ago, nailed down our fellowship with other beasties of the animal kingdom. Yet we seem to have reached an apogee of separation since then. The problem is, we find ourselves quite ungovernable when operating solo, shredding our habitat, while hugging our dogs and cats as if for consolation and dieting on whole-food calories if we are affluent enough. Google Earth and genome games also lend us a fitful confidence that everything is under control. We have Facebook, GPS apps, cameras on any corner, week-ahead weather forecasts round-the-clock on-screen, repair crews ready to restore ''power'' if it ever flickers out. 
Power to the people is a worldwide revolutionary slogan advancing democracy, but presupposes a more ancient meaning: the prehistoric conquest of every other vertebrate on earth. When I lived on Samos myself in 1965, I heard about perhaps the last wild leopard killed in Europe. It had swum across the strait from Mount Mycale in Turkey, only a mile or so away, presumably a bachelor seeking virgin territory, and when discovered and chased, had taken refuge in a cave, where the Samians promptly walled it in to die of thirst. Wouldn't you have done the same? I suspect that Aesop, however, might have advocated setting it free to garland the 27-mile long island (and thus Europe) for a few more years with a last whiff of the eons preceeding modernity.
Sadistic flicks, sea rise, assassination drones: are we up to playing God? A tectonic shift in civilization has never happened this fast before, and we're still part-chimpanzee with double Ph.D.'s in trial and error. Invent pesticides and see what they do to our organs, sell civilians assault rifles and count the schoolhouse shootings, experiment with longevity and economics, friendship and cellphoning. By our own account we're pigs, yet bearish, owly but mousy, catty and bovine. We beaver at work, hawk merchandise, and ape others by parroting them. We're lemmings, wolfish, snakes in the grass, weasels, bucks, hens, leonine or sharks. We're beaky or tigerish, doe-eyed, raven-haired, foxy, chicken-hearted, slow as a tortoise, meek as a dove, sheepish, dogged, old goats, goosey, sitting ducks or vultures. We butt in, bull ahead, change our stripes or spots, strut like a peacock, weep crocodile tears, ram through or swan about. We're rabbity, calf-eyed, we beat our chests like gorillas, buzz off, or act like a jellyfish.
Aesop would perk his ears, pick up a pen at this thicket of still current figures of speech. But what he, Aristotle, Linnaeus, Darwin, Emerson, Kipling would make of what's going on should give us pause. I don't mean whether they would like e-mail and ''the cloud'' so much as the price in demolitions paid, the dramatis personae wiped out. Even Isaac Newton, sitting in his apple orchard, might wonder, ''what have you done with the birds?'' -- was it a fair trade? Will Robert Frost be the last great poet to notice that leaves are gold before they're green? And his beloved stars; where are they? Would Newton need to fly to Australia or the Andes to gaze at them as before -- and feel the magic of the plane was worth it? So much of creation has gone up in smoke to produce glass skyscrapers flocks fly into, superhighways, on-demand electronics, seven billion people in flabbergasting densities, that it's anybody's guess what these luminaries would say. Would they prefer what used to be called ''God's green earth?''
It's a steeplechase, hell-for-leather and exhilarating, for the highest stakes, but not knowing where we're going. Call it progress or metastasizing, what we have done as a race, a species or a civilization is dumbfounding. Every inch of the planet is ours, we claim, and elements of clear improvement are intertwined with cancerous excess: the two-car American dream empowering women's independence but engendering horrendous African droughts. Would Emerson and Aristotle find their hair standing on end, or would they grin so hard their mouth muscles finally wore out? And Darwin's reaction to the tsunami of discoveries succeeding his? A ride on the subway, a month of inquiries, a walk in the park? ''Is there any nature left?'' he might ask, without concluding if he was pleased. Planes high as the sky, kids with instant gratification from fingering a gizmo, and no gangrene. The seethe dizzies us, also (two billion people were alive when I was born), though we're acculturated to extraordinary amounts of disorientation -- the steely shriek of wheels underground, hostile searches at airports, changing lanes in heavy traffic at a mile a minute, sudden bureaucratic notifications -- without blowing a fuse. Strokes and heart attacks we postpone by surgery or pharmaceuticals, plus an evolving tolerance for stress.
Yet my patriotism is shifting, from America in its triumphalism toward the wider sphere of everywhere: Africa, India, England and New England. The total entity is entering troubled waters. There are precedents for our imperial decline but not, in written history, for climate alteration on the scale that's looming or for gargantuan extinctions in forest and ocean -- our global skin. Simulations have become an addition for us, collaging reality into surrealism and taming it for convenience, entertainment or profit. Simulations are faster, zanier and tailored to our preferences, sentimental or otherwise.
IT'S fantasy, amusing, but as technology closes in upon mimicking God, once again are we up to it? Who shall live, who shall die? We'll save the pandas and the whales that sing prettily, but, like godlings, we're playing with fire and water, tides and industry. The ''City Upon a Hill'' will have wet feet even if scientists simultaneously, let's say, clone a mammoth to prove their prowess. I'd like to ogle the mammoth but would prefer to hear the bobolinks and wood thrushes singing in the spring as before. We have Dumbo but are losing Jumbo for his ivory (remember the cruel phrase ''tickle the ivories,'' for piano-playing?), and the former needs the latter for good grounding.
Kindle presents a lapful of world thought and literature on tap at a tap, but will the owners pore over it with wholehearted absorption, as book lovers used to do? And when cars drive themselves, will the operators lavish their leisure on the landscape or on a tablet in their hands? We're a species as slippery as mercury, appropriating any space of every shape from the Sahara to the Arctic Circle, so perhaps we can adapt to surreal simulacra transmitted through the ether, too. At least a critical mass of observers has not yet turned pessimistic. Photosynthesis we'll have for growing calories, plus the blessings of rain, and like lichen, be hard to dislodge even in extremis from the rocks of our home, living willy-nilly in reduced bands. A sparer version of civilization may emerge, a throwback to leaner virtues. To kill so vastly as we have (a third of life?) and yet remain unscathed seems unlikely. I do meet younger people who are fervent about reform. Theirs is a preliminary zeal, still suffocating underneath the indifference of older generations.
But love is central to life, now and again overriding selfishness for a spell. Love, mercy, pity are vividly called for with respect to corals, songbirds, sea mammals, lofty trees and other majesties, not to mention endangered pleasures like eating clams and marveling at the starshine in the depthless heavens. Nature is undefended by the powers that be, having no vote or much innate appeal to the sort of ''people people'' who run for office. They don't saunter (Thoreau's favorite term) and gaze, turn off the motor and open the window when passing a pond to hear the spring peepers sing -- won't know if the frogs have all died from toxicities. They'll jog on a treadmill for their heart's health while scanning spreadsheets. It's not just ponds being steamrollered for industry, but gazing itself being lost to Twitter. The attention span involved in formulating a menagerie out of cloud shapes in the sky while lax on one's back in the grass has been eclipsed by what's interesting on-screen 20 inches away, and conscientious parents will troop their youngster to a planetarium, as to the dinosaur hall next door. These stars at least are carbonated, a firmament in whirligig mode, like the animated characters that populate children's programs.
Mason jars and the verb ''leapfrog,'' instructive bedtime stories like ''crying wolf'' and the goose that laid the golden egg, or the image of Death as a somber figure hefting a scythe -- are these all gone? Certainly wolves and scythes are, and the 30th-generation captive-bred lion lying sleepily on cement in a zoo will be no match for the pep and gab of pizazzy graphics designed for a new century. Even if we're fired or a hurricane is predicted, the temptation is simply to switch channels. ''Out of the woods'' once meant clearing your head, or protesting ''in a pig's eye'' if you couldn't. ''You can lead a horse to water,'' we'd tell the boss before quitting. Will we still ''crow'' about small victories, speak of a predatory matron as ''a cougar'' or somebody scammed as a poor ''fish'' -- still sniff the scent of loam and cedar, dangle our feet in a creekbed (unless we feel ''a frog'' in our throat) and ''eagle eyed,'' scan the sky for barn swallows and chimney swifts or a glistening meadow for spider webs jeweled by the dew?
Mostly that's over, but Aesopian metaphors were artesian if not prehistoric. The tortoise and the hare, the lion saved by the mouse, the monkey who would be king, the dog in the manger, the dog and his shadow, the country mouse and the city mouse, the wolf in sheep's clothing, the raven and the crow, the heron and the fish, the peacock and the crane. From where will we draw replacement similes and language? Pop culture somersaults ''bad'' to mean good, ''cool'' to mean warm, and bustles and bodices segue into tank tops and cargo pants, as in a robust society they should. But will a natural keel remain, as we face multiflex, multiplex change? ''Hogging'' the spotlight, playing possum, resembling a deer in the headlights, being buffaloed or played like a fish: will the clarity of what is said hold? A ''tiger,'' a ''turtle,'' a ''toad.'' After the oceans have been vacuumed of protein and people are eating farmed tilapia and caked algae, will Aesop's platform of markers remain?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RODENTS (89%); MAMMALS (89%); PRIMATES (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (77%); WILD CATS (77%); ANIMALS (77%); CATS (72%); DOGS (72%); DIETING (70%); FIREARMS (61%); SHOOTINGS (54%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%) EARTH (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



790 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: China's Leader Argues for Closer Ties With Russia

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CHRIS BUCKLEY; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Moscow, and Chris Buckley from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- President Xi Jinping of China made a case on Saturday for closer economic and foreign policy cooperation with Russia, using a speech at a university here to argue that the countries have converging goals, including an expansion of the oil and gas trade, as they pursue dreams of ''national revival'' and seek to offset the influence of the developed West.
More than a half-century has passed since the Communist ideological alliance between China and the Soviet Union collapsed in acrimony. But Mr. Xi suggested that the two countries could now find common ground as they each seek to claim a place as a respected great power. 
But as he trumpeted the shared interests in promoting peace and stability, Mr. Xi also emphasized a need to ''oppose interference in the internal affairs of other countries,'' embracing a favorite theme of his Russian counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin, one that both countries have used to resist calls for improvements on the issues of human rights and the rule of law.
''China and Russia, as the biggest neighbors of each other, share many commonalities in their blueprints of national development,'' Mr. Xi said in his speech at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations.
''Currently, China and Russia are both in important periods of national revival, and bilateral relations have entered a new stage in which each provides the other with important development opportunities and treats the other as a major partner,'' he said.
Energy cooperation, particularly in Russia's supplies of oil and natural gas to China, has become one of the most important aspects of the relationship between the countries, a point Mr. Xi noted during his speech. ''Oil and gas pipelines have become the veins connecting the two countries in a new century,'' he said, calling for even greater partnership.
Mr. Xi, who is visiting Moscow on his first trip abroad as China's top leader, made no mention of the United States in his speech, but it was suffused with suggestions that a stronger partnership between China and Russia could help both achieve a stronger voice in global affairs, counterbalancing Western influence.
The United States was also not mentioned by name in a document signed by Mr. Xi and Mr. Putin on Friday promising to work together on the issue of missile defense, calling for caution and warning that the deployment of such systems could endanger national security.
Both Russia and China recently expressed misgivings about the Pentagon's plan to deploy 14 new missile interceptors on the West Coast or in Alaska in response to threats from North Korea.
Mr. Xi's ascent to the top leadership -- he was appointed Communist Party chief in November, but took over as president and head of state only this month -- has coincided with a succession of tensions between China and the United States and its partners. China and Japan have been locked in a renewed dispute over islands in the East China Sea claimed by each side, and the United States has become increasingly forthright in accusing China of engaging in widespread and systematic hacking.
The White House and other Western governments have also urged China and Russia to back stronger pressure on the embattled Syrian government, which both have rejected as dangerous meddling.
In spite of Mr. Xi's soaring words, China and Russia are sometimes wary partners. The Shanghai Cooperation Organization, which brings together the two nations and Central Asian countries, has not evolved into the powerful ''NATO of the East'' that some observers foresaw.
Some Russians worry that China's population and economic strength could overwhelm the Far East region of their country. It has long suffered in part because of historic neglect from Moscow, which has only recently started to make investments.
Mr. Xi will head to Durban, South Africa, from Moscow, for a conference of leaders from the emerging BRICS economies -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. Mr. Putin will also attend.
Since his appointment as party chief, Mr. Xi has championed the slogans of ''the Chinese dream'' and a ''great revival of the Chinese nation'' to appeal to ordinary citizens who are often angry over official corruption and wealth disparities. Mr. Putin, since his return to the Russian presidency in May, has similarly adopted a nationalist posture as he contends with rising political opposition from urban, middle-class liberals frustrated by the slow pace of political change.
Both China and Russia have made clear that they do not want external nosing into their domestic affairs. In his speech, Mr. Xi said, ''Matters within the scope of sovereignty of each country can be dealt with by that country's government and people.''
Following elaborate welcoming ceremonies on Friday that were broadcast live on Russian television, including an honor guard at the airport and the deployment of a presidential cavalry unit outside the Grand Kremlin Palace, officials signed at least 35 agreements on a wide range of issues. In addition to missile defense, they included a plan for a $2 billion loan by China to Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, which will be repaid in oil over 25 years.
In his speech, Mr. Xi also sought to emphasize other ties, based on ideology and literature. ''China's old generation of revolutionaries were deeply influenced by Russian culture, and my generation read many of the classics of Russian literature,'' he said.
But the site for Mr. Xi's speech, one of Russia's most prestigious schools for international relations, was not an accident, and literature was not his main brief. ''We are living through an era of flux and change,'' he said. ''No country or bloc of countries can again single-handedly dominate world affairs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Xi Jinping of China during an address to students at a Moscow university on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI KARPUKHIN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (72%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (72%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); HUMAN RIGHTS (52%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (93%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) WEST USA (79%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



791 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1902 words

HEADLINE: Outside the Citadel, Art That Nurtures

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
In Detroit a contemporary-art museum is completing a monument to an influential artist that will not feature his work but will instead provide food, haircuts, education programs and other social services to the general public.
In New York an art organization that commissions public installations has been dispatching a journalist to politically precarious places around the world where she enlists artists and activists -- often one and the same -- to write for a Web site that can read more like a policy journal than an art portal. And in St. Louis an art institution known primarily for its monumental Richard Serra sculpture is turning itself into a hub of social activism, recently organizing a town-hall meeting where 350 people crowded in to talk about de facto segregation, one of the city's most intractable problems.
If none of these projects sound much like art -- or the art you are used to seeing in museums -- that is precisely the point. As the commercial art world in America rides a boom unlike any it has ever experienced, another kind of art world growing rapidly in its shadows is beginning to assert itself. And art institutions around the country are grappling with how to bring it within museum walls and make the case that it can be appreciated along with paintings, sculpture and other more tangible works. 
Known primarily as social practice, its practitioners freely blur the lines among object making, performance, political activism, community organizing, environmentalism and investigative journalism, creating a deeply participatory art that often flourishes outside the gallery and museum system. And in so doing, they push an old question -- ''Why is it art?'' -- as close to the breaking point as contemporary art ever has.
Leading museums have largely ignored it. But many smaller art institutions see it as a new frontier for a movement whose roots stretch back to the 1960s but has picked up fervor through Occupy Wall Street and the rise of social activism among young artists.
''Say what you will, this stuff is happening, and you might want to put your head in the sand and say, 'I wish it was 40 years ago and it was different and art was more straightforward,' but it's not,'' said Nato Thompson, the chief curator of Creative Time, a New York nonprofit that is known mostly for temporary public art installations but has been delving deeply into the movement.
Works can be as wildly varied as a community development project in Houston that provides both artists' studios and low-income housing, summer camps and workshops for teenagers run by an artist collective near Los Angeles or a program in San Francisco founded by artists and financed by the city that helps turn yards, vacant lots and rooftops into organic gardens.
Art of this kind has thrived for decades outside the United States, mostly in Europe and South America, but has recently caught fire with a new generation of American artists in what is partly a reaction to the art market's distorting power, fueled by a concentration of international wealth. Many artists, however, say the motivation is much broader: to make a difference in the world that is more than aesthetic.
''The boundary lines about how art is being made are becoming much blurrier,'' said Laura Raicovich, who was hired last year by Creative Time as its director of global initiatives and to run a Web site called Creative Time Reports.
The site's recent pieces include a video by an Egyptian-Lebanese artist about Tahrir Square, the locus of the Egyptian uprising two years ago, and a short film about family debt in America made by a self-described ''debt resistance'' art collective with roots in the Occupy Wall Street movement.
''We're not trying to do what journalism does,'' Ms. Raicovich said. ''But we think artists can supplement and complement it through a different lens. And what they're doing is art.''
Social-practice programs are popping up in academia and seem to thrive in the interdisciplinary world of the campus. (The first dedicated master of fine arts program in the field was founded in 2005 at the California College of the Arts in San Francisco, and today there are more than half a dozen.) But for art institutions the problems are trickier: How can you present art that is rarely conceived with a museum or exhibition in mind, for example community projects, often run by collaboratives, that might go on for years, inviting participation more than traditional art appreciation?
At the Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts, a private institution founded by the collector and philanthropist Emily Rauh Pulitzer that opened in St. Louis in 2001, the staff for many years included two full-time social workers who helped former prison inmates and homeless veterans as part of the curatorial program. And in December the foundation, responding to a 2012 BBC report about racial and economic disparities in St. Louis, held a town-hall meeting on the issue. The goal was to open a dialogue with people who live near the institution, which sits near a stark north-south divide between mostly white and African-American neighborhoods.
''We hoped maybe 100 people would show up, and more than 350 did,'' said Kristina Van Dyke, the foundation's director, who collaborated with the Missouri History Museum in organizing the event. As the foundation approached its 10th anniversary, she said, ''we wanted to start envisioning art more broadly, as a place where ideas can happen and action might be able to take place.''
''The question became: Could we effect social change through art, plain and simple?'' she said, adding that the foundation is now exploring ways to orient its programming toward design projects that would help the poor, for example. ''To me art is elastic. It can respond to many different demands made on it. At the same time I have to say that I don't believe all institutions have to do these kinds of things, or should.''
Some in the art world feel that all institutions (and artists) should resist the urge completely. Maureen Mullarkey, a New York painter, wrote on her blog, Studio Matters, that such work only confirmed her belief ''that art is increasingly not about art at all.'' Instead, she argued, it is ''fast becoming a variant of community organizing by soi-disant promoters of their own notions of the common good.''
But many institutions, especially those in cities and neighborhoods with pressing social problems, see the need to extend their reach.
The Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit, for example, is constructing a final work by the artist Mike Kelley, who committed suicide last year, that will function as a kind of perpetual social-practice experiment. Although Kelley was never identified with the movement, he specified before his death that the work, ''Mobile Homestead'' -- a faithful re-creation of his childhood ranch-style home that will sit in a once-vacant lot behind the museum -- should not be an art location in any traditional sense but a small social-services site, with possible additional roles as space for music and the museum's education programs. Whether visitors will understand that the house is a work of art and a continuing performance is an open question. Smaller institutions like the Hammer Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis and the Queens Museum of Art, which is acknowledged as a pioneer of social-practice programming, have also begun bringing the movement into the spotlight. (Tania Bruguera, a New York artist who is known for helping immigrants and has been supported by the Queens Museum and Creative Time, sometimes explains social-practice art with an anti-Modernist call to arms: ''It's time to restore Marcel Duchamp's urinal to the bathroom.'')
Still, the political nature of the movement propels it into territory that is unfamiliar to many artists and art institutions. Last year, for example, a group of artists boycotted a summit meeting that has been held annually by Creative Time since 2009, saying they objected to the participation of a digital art center supported by the Israeli government. (Creative Time later made clear that the meeting received no funds from the organization or the Israeli government.)
Mr. Thompson of Creative Time said that many of the most dedicated social-practice artists see a huge divide between themselves and the commercial art world. ''There are artists who don't want to be the entertainment,'' he said. ''During a crisis of vast inequity they don't want to be the sideshow, off to the side juggling.''
Caroline Woolard, a 29-year-old Brooklyn artist whose projects include collaborating on temporary ''trade schools'' where classes are paid for through bartering, said she became a social-practice artist not because she objected to the commercial or institutional art sectors but because she felt that the art world was too isolated.
''It was the realization that the types of people who went to cultural institutions -- museums or galleries -- were such a small section of any possible public for the kind of work I was interested in,'' she said. She added, though, that she believed the movement would only broaden, and that museums and even the commercial art world would have to find a way to get involved.
''I do think that there will be ways for new kinds of collectors to emerge who will support these kinds of long-term projects as works of art,'' said Ms. Woolard, who was recently asked by the Museum of Modern Art's education department to take part in a social-practice program, ''Artists as Houseguests: Artists Experiment at MoMA,'' over the next few months.
Pablo Helguera, who is organizing the experiment as the director of adult and academic programs in MoMA's education department, said that departments like his, as opposed to curatorial ones, are often the doors through which social-practice artists enter the museum world.
''There have always been artists working this way, but we started seeing more and more of them,'' Mr. Helguera said. ''My theory is that the shift began happening sometime after 9/11. I think it was the question 'What is the meaning of making art in the world like it is today?' ''
Mr. Helguera, who has written a book on the subject, ''Education for Socially Engaged Art,'' added that galleries and museums are only now beginning to scope out the movement's contours. ''The art world has these expectations,'' he said. ''It's like you're supposed to deliver your fall collection and your spring collection, and then what are you doing for the summer, for the art fairs and the biennials?''
''But this kind of work doesn't operate according to that calendar,'' he said. ''It might mean a connection with some community or group of people for years, maybe some artist's whole life. It's hard to bring to the public. Sometimes it's hard to define.''
Even those who live in the world of socially engaged art sometimes need help defining it. Justin Langlois, a Canadian artist, recently wrote a wry David-Letterman-style list of questions that artists can pose to themselves to determine whether they are indeed practicing social practice. Question No. 19 was ''Can your work be critiqued by a painter?'' Question No. 22: ''If your project was a math equation, did the sum always end up as a critique of capitalism?'' And the final question: ''Were you asked to explain the reason you think your project is art?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Portraits sketched round-robin at a school where classes were paid for through bartering. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WALSH) (AR1)
Left, a town-hall meeting on racial and economic issues at the Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts in St. Louis
below left, Marisa Mazria Katz interviews a musician in Nairobi, Kenya, for Creative Time Reports, run by a New York nonprofit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY REGINA MARTINEZ FOR THE PULITZER FOUNDATION FOR THE ARTS
HASSAN ALI NOOR/CREATIVE TIME REPORTS)
Above, from top, butter making class
living with immigrants in Queens
and a re-creation of the childhood home of the artist Mike Kelley that will be a social-services site at the Museum of Contemporary Art Detroit. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRADE SCHOOL
JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CORINE VERMUELEN) (AR17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PAINTING (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); WRITERS (77%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (68%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); GARDENING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CITADEL (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); NAIROBI, KENYA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); KENYA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



792 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: The Attachment That Still Makes Noise

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
DO you have a stapler?
If you do, maybe it's a little dusty in this age of PDFs. Or maybe it's been missing for a while, after someone borrowed it and never brought it back. Or maybe you've affixed your name to your stapler with a piece of clear tape, so your co-workers know: you take this stapler, you die.
Even as data moves to computers and the cloud, staplers continue to help people keep it together. On the computer, we can file copies in folders and send messages to mailboxes. We can cut, copy and paste text and files. But which computer activity is similar to stapling? Sure, there's the paper-clip icon that attaches documents to e-mail. But nothing, really, comes close to the satisfying ka-chunk of a stapler: it's a sound that means work is getting done.
Paper receipts are supposed to be on their way out, but they continue to flutter their way through restaurants, stores and doctors' offices. Staplers are there, attaching the receipt to the business card, the return receipt to the original receipt, the merchant copy to the bill, the receipt to the takeout bag. 
If you have a stapler, the odds are fairly good that it was made by Swingline. Other companies, including Stanley-Bostitch, along with OfficeMax and Staples, also make staplers. But Swingline, now owned by Acco Brands, has long been the market leader.
Acco, based in suburban Chicago, sounds like the perfect name for a faceless conglomerate from the era of ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit.'' But it actually has a sterling office products pedigree -- it is short for the American Clip Company, a manufacturer of paper clips founded by Fred. J. Kline of Queens at the turn of the 20th century.
Queens was once the center of the paper-fastening universe. In 1925, it was where Jack Linsky founded the Parrot Speed Fastener Company, later renamed Swingline. For years, the bright red sign of his Swingline factory was a beacon to Queens residents as they drove across the Queensboro Bridge from Manhattan.
Stapling devices have existed since at the least the French court of Louis XV. But before Mr. Linsky's time, staples generally had to be laboriously loaded, one by one, into the rear of the stapler. Mr. Linsky helped revolutionize stapling by creating an easy way to fill the devices under a horizontal cap. He found an adhesive that could attach staples in rows so that they stayed together in a metal magazine until they were pushed out and bent individually to grip their paper quarry.
Swingline promised to make office work easy. In a newspaper ad from the 1940s, a young woman -- presumably a secretary -- loads a stapler and says: ''Now we're in the groove, boss! That Swingline Stapler loads quicker, works slicker because of its open, trouble-free channel.''
But Mr. Linsky wasn't satisfied to serve only the office market; he helped increase demand for staplers by emphasizing their handiness in other tasks, like tacking shelf paper, fastening paper around sandwiches and constructing party hats. (''Swingline does the darnedest things!'' another ad boasted.) He also expanded the business by making specialized staplers for carpeting, roofing and auto upholstery.
In 1970, Mr. Linsky sold Swingline to American Brands, and in the next decade Acco merged into Swingline. Amid the manufacturing crisis of the 1990s, American Brands closed the Swingline factory in Queens and moved its manufacturing to Mexico; nearly 500 New York workers lost their jobs, and the Swingline sign came down. Now most staplers are produced in Asia.
Swingline made Mr. Linsky very rich. He and his wife, Belle, were philanthropists and art collectors who once owned one of the largest collections of Fabergé eggs in America. Jack died in 1980, and in 1982 Belle donated a collection of the couple's European art, then worth $60 million, to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Staplers generally don't rise to the level of prized collectibles, which is why a Swingline's role as an object of obsession was so funny in the 1999 cult comedy"Office Space.''
In the film, a mumbling, superwide-eyed character named Milton becomes desperate after his red Swingline stapler is taken away during a frenzy of cost-cutting and downsizing at a soulless I.T. company.
You might assume that this stapler, not only cherished but central to the plot of ''Office Space,'' was a brilliant product placement move. In fact, Swingline had no hand in the story line. It had long stopped making that type of red stapler, and a black Swingline was painted red by the filmmakers.
At first, Swingline executives weren't sure they liked being associated with such a dark parody of corporate life. But in 2002, recognizing the value of its pop-culture star turn, it released its Rio Red collectors edition 747 stapler. The company bills it ''as the star of any office space.''
STAPLERS come in a range of colors, shapes and sizes and can vary in their staple capacity and in the number of sheets they can puncture. The ideal stapler is a perfect melding of heft and lightness that can accommodate either in-the-air or on-the-desk fastening.
Staplers are still such a fact of everyday life that we've lost sight of what a triumph of manufacturing they are. They can bend metal -- no batteries or electricity required. They are similar to guns in that they contain magazines meant to be filled with metal objects that you load and release.
''The engineering of a stapler is not fully appreciated,'' said Mike Parrish, director of product development for Acco Brands. Under the cap of a stapler, a pusher connected to a spring forces the row of staples forward. A special blade drives the first staple through a slot at the front of the magazine. A metal square with indentations at the edge of the open part of the base, called the anvil, helps bend the staple so it can grip the paper. The bottom of the completed staple is known as the clinch, and the top is the crown.
Without just the right alignment in the stapler, and the proper adhesive level and tensile strength in the row of staples, this delicate operation could go awry. You could end up with a jam (as with a gun), or an incomplete clinch (and maybe a bloody finger).
A Swingline stapler is designed to be ''a fusion of form and function,'' said Chris Cunningham, global design director for Acco. The design of a traditional model is meant to look streamlined, he added, and so robust and durable that even if the whole building burned down, one senses that the stapler would still be there.
INDUSTRYWIDE, sales of desktop and hand-held staplers (nonelectric) totaled $80.3 million in 2012, up 3 percent from the previous year, according to NPD, the market research firm. Sales of office products in general rose after a decline amid the recession.
Robert Keller, the departing C.E.O. of Acco Brands (he will remain as executive chairman), started his career at I.B.M. in the 1970s, when experts were predicting that paperless offices were just around the corner. Well, here he is, four decades later, leading a huge office products company with paper and staplers as its core products.
But Mr. Keller knows full well that computers will continue to eat into the business; that's why Acco is aggressively expanding into global markets where technology is not as entrenched.
Time is a big threat to the stapler industry, and to office products in general. More people who grew up with staplers are going to retire and die. And the younger generation just isn't as attached to staplers, said Lora Morsovillo, president of office supplies for NPD.
But there's hope, she said, if stapler makers look at their products as decorative objects. ''The growth is coming from uniqueness and personalization,'' especially in home offices, she said. She puts staplers in the same general category as tape dispensers, and, she noted, there's a tape dispenser out there in the shape of a stiletto heel.
Swingline has yet to produce a stiletto stapler, but it recently introduced a line of fashion staplers with bright colors and decorations. On the whole, though, staplers have been ''drab and dreary,'' maintained Randy Nicolau, the chief executive of Poppin, a new e-commerce company that aims to turn products like staplers, notebooks, pens, pen cups, trays and calculators into jewelry for your desk.
Poppin's open-plan office is bright with the colors of its coordinated products, including white, black, yellow, orange, red, pink, purple, two shades of blue (aqua and ''pool'') and lime green. ''We consider ourselves to be a fashion company before anything else,'' Mr. Nicolau said.
The company also cares about function, said Jeff Miller, vice president of product design. But in addition to making a product that performs well, Mr. Miller said, he seeks to create sleek, concise forms, and modular sizes -- so that the stapler on your desk, for example, matches up with the tape dispenser.
The company's staplers are made overseas, but its headquarters are in Manhattan, across the East River from where Jack Linsky once set up shop. The stylish staplers sold by Poppin look much different from the utilitarian ones Mr. Linsky once made, but some things haven't changed. The staplers still have a magazine, a spring, a pusher and an anvil, and they still make a satisfying metallic sound when you press down on them, signaling that work has been done.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An early Swingline stapler. Despite computer-age visions of paperless offices, stapler sales rose last year, and Swingline, born in 1925, is still the market leader. (BU1)
Swingline staplers, past and present: From left are two past models -- the 13 and 333 -- and three current ones, the Rio Red 747, the Optima 40 and the SmartTouch. The Rio Red was inspired by the film ''Office Space,'' in which a Swingline stapler had a star turn. The low-force Optima 40 and SmartTouch have a cap that rests farther above the magazine, requiring less pressure to get the job done.
Staples once had to be loaded one by one into the back of a stapler. All that changed when an adhesive was found to attach staples in rows, creating an easy way to fill the device -- as shown in a new Swingline stapler, a fashion statement called the Runway, in the two photos at left. Swingline stapler models from the previous century include the 444, the 99 and the Tot 50. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A Swingline stapler is designed to be ''a fusion of form and function,'' says Chris Cunningham, above, global design director at Acco, which owns the brand. The bright colors of Poppin staplers, left, are in sync with Poppin's image as a fashion company. Below left, signs at Swingline's old plant in Queens, once the center of the paper-fastening universe, came down in 1999. And a 1946 ad in The Saturday Evening Post offers another touch of Swingline's past. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE SUPPLIES MFG (90%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (87%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); PAPER MILLS (62%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (52%)

COMPANY: ACCO BRANDS CORP (91%)

TICKER: ACCO (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



793 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; STREETSCAPES | THE BILTMORE HOTEL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: A Rendezvous With 1,000 Rooms

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
Whether you think of them as quotidian, or ''soaring masonry facades enlivened by decorative details,'' as does the New York Landmarks Conservancy, the network of 1910s and 1920s buildings erected over Grand Central's sunken railroad yards was a remarkable development, unlike anything ever done in New York.
But the linchpin of what was called Terminal City, the huge 1913 Biltmore Hotel, is long gone -- with the exception of a clock and a tunnel. 
It was William J. Wilgus, an engineer for the New York Central Railroad, who had the idea of using the air rights above Grand Central's yards to generate revenue, and this idea drove the new terminal, which opened a century ago. One early plan for Park Avenue, which ran over the covered tracks, was for a formal boulevard flanked by grand Washington-style institutions. But the voice of economics prevailed: Park Avenue was developed with apartment houses and office buildings.
The St. Paul architects Charles A. Reed and Allen H. Stem won the initial commission in 1903, but soon the well-connected Whitney Warren and Charles Wetmore insinuated themselves as partners, and work was under way in 1911 when Reed died.
The day after the funeral, Wetmore secretly approached the railroad and got it to void the initial contract, naming Warren & Wetmore sole architects for all future related work.
That was substantial, involving at least a dozen large office buildings and a great hotel right next to Grand Central, from 43rd to 44th Street, between Madison and Vanderbilt Avenues. This was the 26-story Biltmore, the first of Warren & Wetmore's ill-gotten commissions. In early 1914 The Real Estate Record and Guide described the thousand-room hotel, with a terraced sixth-floor setback on the Vanderbilt Avenue side, as having been designed so as ''not to dwarf the monumental effect'' of Grand Central.
This was rather a generous judgment, considering that the hotel was five times as high. Madison Avenue was dominated by its great, uninterrupted bulk. The two tall, gawky wings facing Vanderbilt, separated by a light court, suggest colossal diving boards.
The Biltmore's guests could step off their trains, engage a porter for their luggage, and stroll through Grand Central and into an elevator in the hotel basement. Once checked in, they could retreat to the terrace, which had a roof garden, and in some years skating, and must have been refreshing in the days before air-conditioning. The hotel also custom-built some apartments on request. Dau's New York Blue Book of 1919 gives a Biltmore address for the architect William Rutherford Mead, whose partners Stanford White and Charles McKim had died in 1906 and '09, respectively.
Although the usual narrative is that at this time well-to-do families were shifting from private houses into the new apartment buildings, hotels were obviously a third option.
In October 1914 hotels all over the city dropped their flags to half-staff when word came that the hotel's operator, Gustav Baumann, had fallen from the 22nd floor to his death on the terrace. The New York Times reported that he had lost his balance. A partner with John Bowman in the Biltmore operation, Baumann was one of the best known hotel men in New York. He left an estate appraised at $190,000, which seems a comfortable sum, but two years before it had been valued at $4 million. The Times said he had been losing money on both the Biltmore and the Ansonia, which he also controlled.
Stem had sued Warren and Wetmore when he discovered they had gone to the railroad behind his back. In 1920 the Court of Appeals found in his favor, awarding him about $500,000, including 1 percent of the construction cost of the Biltmore.
According to ''The Architecture of Warren & Wetmore,'' by Peter Pennoyer and Anne Walker, Wilgus wrote that he found their underhandedness ''typical of the moral turpitude which marked the course of Warren & Wetmore in their entire relation to the Grand Central Station architecture.'' The book also says that Warren was expelled from the American Institute of Architects in 1920; Nancy Hadley, the institute's archivist, says that Wetmore was never a member, which was unusual for an architect of his stature.
The Biltmore, and in particular its clock, became almost as much an institution as Grand Central itself. At Christmastime in 1956 McCandlish Phillips wrote in The Times under the headline ''Collegiate Zest Is Added to City'' that vacationing students were meeting ''as they have for decades, under the gold-figured clock.'' That custom extended back at least as far as 1923, when a revue at the Waldorf-Astoria included a skit with a song ''Under the Clock at the Biltmore.''
By the 1980s, Midtown seemed anything but zesty, just a collection of aging structures far out of fashion. In 1981 the Milstein family closed the hotel, which was rumored to be a candidate for landmark designation. Suddenly, demolition began. Preservation groups scrambled to save some of the interiors, including the Palm Court, which held the clock.
But they were not successful, and the brutal red granite 335 Madison Avenue, designed by the firm Environetics, went up in its place. It is hard to imagine, but in another hundred years preservation organizations may promote its preservation, too, just as they are now promoting landmark designation for the Yale Club and other structures in the area.
The Biltmore clock was placed in the lobby of No. 335, but has the pickled aspect common to architectural elements divorced from context. For real old-time Biltmoriana, walk around to the 44th Street side. You'll find a long vehicle ramp, with an arched ceiling of Guastavino tile, that led to the basement of the Biltmore and the connection to Grand Central. You can still drive down, but now it's just a garage.
E-mail: streetscapes@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Biltmore Hotel, shown in 1913, was almost as much a landmark as its sibling Grand Central Terminal. A tile-roofed tunnel on East 44th Street is a remnant of the hotel's glory days. Generations gathered at the Biltmore's clock, which is now in the lobby of the building that replaced it in the 1980s, 335 Madison Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK
 HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



794 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Report Card on Health Care Reform

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Republican leaders in Congress regularly denounce the 2010 Affordable Care Act and vow to block money to carry it out or even to repeal it. Those political attacks ignore the considerable benefits delivered to millions of people since the law's enactment three years ago Saturday. The main elements of the law do not kick in until Jan. 1, 2014, when many millions of uninsured people will gain coverage. Yet it has already thrown a lifeline to people at high risk of losing insurance or being uninsured, including young adults and people with chronic health problems, and it has made a start toward reforming the costly, dysfunctional American health care system.
EXPANDING COVERAGE Starting in 2010, all insurers and employers that offer dependent coverage were required to offer coverage to dependent children up to age 26. An estimated 6.6 million people ages 19 through 25 have been able to stay on or join their parents' plans as result, with more than 3 million previously uninsured young adults getting health insurance. The law requires private health insurers to provide free preventive care, without co-pays or deductibles. Some 71 million Americans have received at least one free preventive service, like a mammogram or a flu shot, and an additional 34 million older Americans got free preventive services in 2012 under Medicare. 
Private insurers are now required to cover children with pre-existing conditions, which means that an estimated 17 million such children have been protected against being uninsured.
And more than 107,000 adults have enrolled in a federally run insurance plan for people with pre-existing conditions. The law also bars insurers from canceling policies on sick people; previously, 10,000 people a year had their policies rescinded.
The law appropriated $11 billion over five years to build and operate community health centers, a major factor in increasing the annual number of patients served to 21 million, a rise of 3 million from previous levels. Some $5 billion has been put into a reinsurance program that has encouraged employers to retain coverage for retirees and their families; 19 million people benefited with reduced premiums or cost-sharing.
SAVING CONSUMERS MONEY Private insurers are required by the law to spend at least 80 to 85 percent of their premium revenues on medical claims or quality improvements, or they must pay a rebate to consumers. In 2012, insurers had to pay $1.1 billion in rebates, an average of $151 per family. Although Republicans contend the law will drive up insurance premiums, thus far it seems to have reduced them. Any insurer that wants to increase its premiums by 10 percent or more for people who buy their own policies must justify the increase to state or federal officials. As a result, the proportion of rate filings that sought increases of 10 percent or more fell from 75 percent in 2010 to 34 percent in 2012, and it is expected to be even lower this year. The average premium increase in 2012 was 30 percent lower than in 2010.
The law also provides for prescription drug discounts to Medicare beneficiaries. More than 6.3 million older or disabled people have already saved more than $6.1 billion on prescription drugs since 2010 and will save even more as a gap in coverage, known as the doughnut hole, is filled in by 2020. And the law ended lifetime dollar limits on services covered by private plans, a matter of great importance to people with very high medical costs. Annual limits on what plans will pay are being phased out.
REINING IN HEALTH CARE COSTS Sharp declines in the annual growth rate in overall health care spending and in Medicare's cost per beneficiary have eased the pressure on federal budgets and on private insurance premiums. The main factor was presumably the recession, which made people reluctant to spend on health care, but it is possible that the focus on reform has led many providers to act more frugally. The law has reduced unjustified overpayments to private Medicare Advantage plans, which enroll more than a fifth of all beneficiaries, and despite fears to the contrary, Medicare Advantage premiums have fallen by 10 percent and enrollment has risen by 28 percent since the law was passed.
BETTER QUALITY OF CARE One of the most promising aspects of the health reform act is its focus on improving quality. The percentage of Medicare patients requiring readmission to the hospital within 30 days of discharge dropped from an average of 19 percent over the past five years to 17.8 percent in the last half of 2012, an improvement due in large part to penalties imposed by Medicare for poor performance and financial incentives paid by Medicare to providers to encourage better coordination of care after a patient leaves the hospital.
A number of pilot programs in Medicare and Medicaid have been started to reward quality, to encourage doctors and hospitals to coordinate care, and to lower costs. If enough of these experiments pan out, they could transform not only Medicare but the entire health care system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (76%); MEDICARE (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (75%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MEDICAL INSURANCE CLAIMS (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); REINSURANCE (75%); FAMILY (75%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); INFLUENZA (66%); SALES REBATES (65%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



795 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL | SUNDAY OBSERVER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: In India, Women's Issues Are Finally Out Front

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Having recently returned to the United States from a four-year assignment in India, I'm often asked about events in that country. And so it was with the brutal rape and murder of a 23-year-old student in New Delhi in December that set off big protests across India and was covered widely around the world. Why has this particular rape inspired so much outrage, people ask, when sexual violence is, sadly, so pervasive and commonplace there?
The savagery of the attack and the young woman's inspiring story as the first in her poor family to pursue an advanced education and a career in medicine made this case deeply affecting. But this kind of crime and public awareness of it should not be seen as exceptional. In fact, outrage about the mistreatment and abuse Indian women suffer on a daily basis has been building over the last two decades. The rape in December may have drawn great public anguish because it came to symbolize the collected grievances of hundreds of millions of women. 
Devesh Kapur, who leads the Center for Advanced Study of India at the University of Pennsylvania, argues that gender violence is coming to the fore as a public issue partly because India is now less divided by other big fault lines: religion and caste. India has not achieved universal communal harmony, but violence between Hindus and Muslims or members of different castes has declined, especially in the last 10 years.
''For 20 years, or at least 15 years, India was obsessed at least in the chattering classes with two cleavages: religion and caste,'' he said. ''The other cleavage, which is gender, was ignored.''
Those communal tensions have subsided thanks in part to two decades of faster economic growth. As that was happening, public attention shifted to issues that had always been below the surface and cut across religious and caste lines, including violence against women. The attention partly reflects the impressive gains Indian women and girls have made in education and health: female literacy jumped to 66 percent in 2011 from 54 percent a decade earlier, and maternal mortality fell by nearly half from 1998 to 2009.
Another big factor is the nation's changing demographics: more than half of the population is 25 years or younger. This group appears to be more socially aware and liberal and is starting to find its voice. College students, for instance, organized many of the protests after the New Delhi rape.
Young people and an increasingly activist news media helped force politicians to respond to the Delhi rape case by quickly bringing suspects to trial and setting up a commission led by a former Supreme Court chief justice. The commission issued a thorough and scathing report on violence against women and last week Parliament passed a law adopting some of its recommendations. The new law is incomplete. It does not, for instance, allow a married woman to file rape charges against her husband. But it did break new ground by defining stalking, a big problem, as a crime for the first time.
India has a notoriously poor record in enforcing laws and this statute is very likely to suffer from that deficiency because it will be enforced by corrupt, poorly trained police officers. But the fact that it was adopted at all is a small step forward.
Another development that some find hope in is that women are reporting more rapes. Experts say this suggests that women are more willing to speak out and are having more success in getting police officers to register their complaints, which they are very reluctant to do.
The number of reported rapes per 100,000 people increased by 28 percent from 2001 to 2011 even as the incidence of other violent crimes like murder and rioting fell. The absolute numbers of rape cases, however, remain tiny for a country of 1.2 billion people: the government recorded just 24,206 rape cases in 2011, or about 2 per 100,000 citizens. By contrast, American authorities recorded 26.8 rape cases per 100,000 people that year (not including statutory rape cases).
''To the extent that reporting has increased because women feel more empowered and willing to come forward rather than suffer in silence, the increased reporting could represent good rather than bad news,'' Rupa Subramanya, a Mumbai-based author and columnist, wrote recently. She and Vivek Dehejia, an economist, highlighted the increased reporting of rapes in their recent book, ''Indianomix: Making Sense of Modern India.''
Real change will happen when norms and mores evolve. Most Indian families, like most Chinese or Vietnamese families, are still patriarchal and strongly prefer boys to girls, a preference they often exercise by aborting female fetuses. That historical preference has left large parts of India with many more young men than women, which partly explains the phenomenon of gang rapes.
Yet, traditional views about women's place in society and the home are changing. The fact that the parents of the Delhi student knew that she was out watching a movie with a male friend the night she was raped is striking. Until about 15 years ago most unmarried couples would rarely venture out alone in public and would certainly not tell their parents about it.
Indian women are not as marginalized as they once were, and the reaction to this senseless death provides hope that bigger changes are coming.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A New Delhi protest last year after a woman was brutally raped. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADNAN ABIDI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (91%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (91%); MURDER (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (89%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (70%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); LEGISLATION (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%); DELHI, INDIA (58%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



796 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Automatic Cuts Are Felt at Nation's Air Shows

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
TITUSVILLE, Fla. -- A screaming comes across the sky. Again and again, all day long.
Here at the 36th annual TiCo Warbird Airshow, fighter jets and vintage planes roar and rumble by as viewers ooh, aah, and then walk over to the line of food stands to buy funnel cakes and gyros, corn dogs and root beer floats.
The undisputed star, of course, is the Air Force Thunderbirds, whose six-plane precision flying team crisscrosses a perfect sky in ever-changing formations and gives an undiluted thrill to the crowd -- at least those who brought earplugs.
But this is likely to be the last appearance by the Thunderbirds until the end of the federal government's fiscal year on Sept. 30, if not longer. A performance this weekend by the Navy and Marine Corps' Blue Angels near Key West, Fla., will also be their last for some time. The Army's parachute demonstration team, the Golden Knights, is also suspending performances. 
The failure of Congress to avoid the automatic spending cuts under what is known as sequestration is being felt in many ways, including the cancellation of White House tours and the loss of some 70,000 slots in Head Start early education programs. Along with less visible cuts, the Defense Department has suspended operation of the demonstration teams starting April 1.
(The Navy is hedging its bets, having simply announced its intent to cancel performances in April while waiting to see if financing problems are resolved, said Cmdr. Kevin Stephens, a Navy spokesman. ''We want these cuts to be implemented at the last possible moment so they can be reversed where possible,'' he said.)
Under sequestration, the Air Force must reduce flying hours by 18 percent, or about 203,000 hours, said Wendy S. Varhegyi, a spokeswoman; the decision to ground air show participation allows the Air Force ''to redistribute their flying hours to support overseas contingency operations and predeployment readiness training.'' It will also save some of the $9.75 million annual Thunderbirds budget.
The cuts make sense, said Maren Leed, a defense policy expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. ''I personally think it would be irresponsible if the Department of Defense did not take cuts like this.''
That does not mean the decision is popular, even within Dr. Leed's own family, she said; her 4-year-old son is wild about the Blue Angels.
''He got a brochure; we read it every night,'' she said. They had planned to see a performance in May in Annapolis, Md. ''I haven't figured out how to tell him yet,'' Dr. Leed said.
The air shows will feel the effects as well. The Blue Angels and the Thunderbirds are ''the biggest draw that makes the biggest noise,'' said John Cudahy, the president of the International Council of Air Shows, the industry trade group. ''The absence of the jet teams leaves a big hole in the air show business.''
Robert Duncan, the chairman of the executive committee for the Indianapolis Air Show, said that ''typically, a Blue Angels show will add 25 percent to your gate.'' This summer's 17th annual show was canceled in February as the uncertainty over sequestration and its effects grew.
''It was getting difficult to attract sponsors and get commitment for financial support,'' Mr. Duncan said. ''Every time they would ask, 'Are the Blue Angels coming?' We had to say, no pun intended, 'It's up in the air.' ''
The ripple effects of just one canceled show can be enormous, Mr. Duncan said. The air show has raised $1.3 million for the Riley Hospital for Children over the years. Many of the workers are volunteers, but the show employs contractors for services like publicity, insurance and entertainment. Money for aviation fuel, hotel rooms and many other things will not be flowing through the local economy. ''We canceled our order for 120 golf carts,'' he said.
Other shows will go on. ''We'll have a fantastic air show this year, with or without the military teams,'' said Jim DiMatteo, an official with EAA AirVenture Oshkosh, a gargantuan weeklong celebration in Wisconsin of aviation of which the air show is only a part. The Wings Over Houston Airshow, which focuses on older military aircraft and will include a re-enactment of the attack on Pearl Harbor, will also proceed in October, said Bill Roach, the executive director.
''We're going to have a great show no matter what,'' he said, acknowledging that he expected a 20 percent drop in attendance without the Blue Angels there.
Lt. Col. Greg Moseley, the commander of the Thunderbirds, said that sequestration was ''unfortunate'' but that the team would do its best to fulfill the mission of spreading good will and inspiring potential recruits.
''Mission execution isn't just about flying airplanes,'' he said. ''We're going to send out a blue uniform with a Thunderbird patch wherever we can.''
At this weekend's air show in Titusville, a banner near a display of camper trailers reads ''Save the Thunderbirds!'' and Larry Groves, the president of Grandsport RV, is gathering signatures from those attending the show. ''These guys fly and risk their life every day they fly,'' he said. ''And we're not treating them right.''
Few here seem to agree about what is going on or who is to blame, but no one is happy with lawmakers. Jerry Trachtman, the air show announcer, tells the crowd that this is likely to be the last Thunderbirds show of the spring and summer season, adding: ''We can thank our friends in Washington. I'm sure there is something we can thank them for -- I just can't think of it.''
At a concession booth, Joe Foley is selling Thunderbirds and Blue Angels T-shirts and hats, along with other aviation and military knickknacks and jewelry. He travels to 30 shows a year -- ''before 'see-frustration,' as we call it,'' he joked grimly.
''Because they can't agree, they want to make everybody hurt,'' Mr. Foley said. ''It's all a dog and pony show.''
Briawna Bailey does not know anything about sequestration. Her parents, Jeff and Rebecca, have taken Briawna and her twin brother, Logan, out of school for a day to see their first air show at age 6.
Briawna said she loved seeing the Thunderbirds and the aerobatic planes, and she looked into the distance when she said: ''I'm thinking about, when I grow up? I might be an airplane driver.''
''Pilot,'' her mother corrected.
''Pilot,'' Briawna said. ''And I'll do all the tricks.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Air Force Thunderbirds on Friday in Titusville, Fla. The team's performance at the air show there will probably be its last for a while. (A17)
 At Friday's show in Titusville, Fla. The Defense Department has suspended operation of its demonstration teams as of April. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH BETH GLICKSTEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ARMIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); BUDGETS (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (71%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (83%); US NAVY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (58%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



797 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Critics of State Bill Say It Would Restrict Abortions

BYLINE: By BECCA AARONSON. 
baaronson@texastribune.org

 BODY:
A bill advancing through the Texas Legislature could drastically decrease the number of legal abortion facilities in the state.
Supporters of Senate Bill 537, which would increase regulations for abortion facilities, say it will improve women's safety. But abortion rights advocates say that the bill is a thinly veiled effort to close 37 of the state's 42 abortion facilities, and that it would reduce women's access to legal abortion.
''I understand the suspicion, but this really is about improving health care for women getting abortions,'' said the bill's author, State Senator Bob Deuell, a Republican from Greenville who is a primary care physician. 
The bill would require abortions, including those induced by drugs, to be performed in so-called ambulatory surgical centers. The regulations for such facilities include specific sizes for rooms and doorways, and additional infrastructure like pipelines for general anesthesia and large sterilization equipment.
The Senate Committee on Health and Human Services approved the bill on Tuesday, sending it to the full Senate for approval.
''There's no recent spike in risk or safety incidents that this regulation is responding to. It's pure politics,'' said Amy Hagstrom Miller, the chief executive of Whole Woman's Health, which operates four abortion clinics throughout the state and an ambulatory surgical center that performs abortions. ''The thing we need to worry about is, when you take away women's access to safe abortion, then what's going to happen?''
Thirty-seven abortion clinics in Texas would not be in compliance under the new regulations. Of the 416 ambulatory surgical centers in Texas, five perform abortions.
Abortion rights advocates say Texas women will be forced to seek dangerous and illegal abortions because they will no longer have ready access to the procedure.
Ambulatory surgical centers cost more to build and operate than abortion clinics, which in turn raises the cost of abortions for patients. Whole Woman's Health, for example, says it spends $40,000 more each month to operate its surgical center than it does for an abortion clinic. Its patients pay $1,277 for an abortion at the surgical center compared with $540 at a clinic.
More than 72,000 abortions are performed annually in Texas. No deaths from complications related to abortion have been reported to the state since 2001. While there are risks associated with the procedure, there is less than one death per 100,000 legal abortions in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Dr. Mayra Thompson, an obstetrician and gynecologist, told senators during a committee hearing on Tuesday that serious complications could arise from surgical abortions.
''It shouldn't matter if you're pro-life or pro-choice,'' Dr. Thompson said. ''The point here is the safety.''
Texas passed a law in 2004 requiring women seeking an abortion after 16 weeks of pregnancy to undergo the procedure in a surgical center. At the time, no abortion facilities met the standards.
A study by Ted Joyce, an economics professor at Baruch College of the City University of New York, on the effects of the 2004 law found that the number of abortions after 16 weeks dropped in Texas to 446 from 3,642 in the first year, and that more women sought abortions out of state. Mr. Joyce said last week that he expected Dr. Deuell's measure would have similar effects.
Although surgical centers would eventually be established to meet the demand for abortion services, Mr. Joyce said, his research showed that, in the short term, existing surgical facilities would be flooded with patients and ''it's going to force women either to go out of state or to carry to term.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An operating room at the Whole Woman's Health Surgical Center in San Antonio. Below, a nurse at the center administers a pill to induce an abortion. Under Senate Bill 537's regulations, 37 of the 42 abortion facilities in Texas would not be in compliance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ABORTION (95%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); OUTPATIENT SURGERY CENTERS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); WOMEN (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



798 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Big Data Is Opening Doors, But Maybe Too Many

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
IN the 1960s, mainframe computers posed a significant technological challenge to common notions of privacy. That's when the federal government started putting tax returns into those giant machines, and consumer credit bureaus began building databases containing the personal financial information of millions of Americans. Many people feared that the new computerized databanks would be put in the service of an intrusive corporate or government Big Brother.
''It really freaked people out,'' says Daniel J. Weitzner, a former senior Internet policy official in the Obama administration. ''The people who cared about privacy were every bit as worried as we are now.''
Along with fueling privacy concerns, of course, the mainframes helped prompt the growth and innovation that we have come to associate with the computer age. Today, many experts predict that the next wave will be driven by technologies that fly under the banner of Big Data -- data including Web pages, browsing habits, sensor signals, smartphone location trails and genomic information, combined with clever software to make sense of it all. 
Proponents of this new technology say it is allowing us to see and measure things as never before -- much as the microscope allowed scientists to examine the mysteries of life at the cellular level. Big Data, they say, will open the door to making smarter decisions in every field from business and biology to public health and energy conservation.
''This data is a new asset,'' says Alex Pentland, a computational social scientist and director of the Human Dynamics Lab at the M.I.T. ''You want it to be liquid and to be used.''
But the latest leaps in data collection are raising new concern about infringements on privacy -- an issue so crucial that it could trump all others and upset the Big Data bandwagon. Dr. Pentland is a champion of the Big Data vision and believes the future will be a data-driven society. Yet the surveillance possibilities of the technology, he acknowledges, could leave George Orwell in the dust.
The World Economic Forum published a report late last month that offered one path -- one that leans heavily on technology to protect privacy. The report grew out of a series of workshops on privacy held over the last year, sponsored by the forum and attended by government officials and privacy advocates, as well as business executives. The corporate members, more than others, shaped the final document.
The report, ''Unlocking the Value of Personal Data: From Collection to Usage,'' recommends a major shift in the focus of regulation toward restricting the use of data. Curbs on the use of personal data, combined with new technological options, can give individuals control of their own information, according to the report, while permitting important data assets to flow relatively freely.
''There's no bad data, only bad uses of data,'' says Craig Mundie, a senior adviser at Microsoft, who worked on the position paper.
The report contains echoes of earlier times. The Fair Credit Reporting Act, passed in 1970, was the main response to the mainframe privacy challenge. The law permitted the collection of personal financial information by the credit bureaus, but restricted its use mainly to three areas: credit, insurance and employment.
The forum report suggests a future in which all collected data would be tagged with software code that included an individual's preferences for how his or her data is used. All uses of data would have to be registered, and there would be penalties for violators. For example, one violation might be a smartphone application that stored more data than is necessary for a registered service like a smartphone game or a restaurant finder.
The corporate members of the forum say they recognize the need to address privacy concerns if useful data is going to keep flowing. George C. Halvorson, chief executive of Kaiser Permanente, the large health care provider, extols the benefits of its growing database on nine million patients, tracking treatments and outcomes to improve care, especially in managing costly chronic and debilitating conditions like heart disease, diabetes and depression. New smartphone applications, he says, promise further gains -- for example, a person with a history of depression whose movement patterns slowed sharply would get a check-in call.
''We're on the cusp of a golden age of medical science and care delivery,'' Mr. Halvorson says. ''But a privacy backlash could cripple progress.''
Corporate executives and privacy experts agree that the best way forward combines new rules and technology tools. But some privacy professionals say the approach in the recent forum report puts way too much faith in the tools and too little emphasis on strong rules, particularly in moving away from curbs on data collection.
''We do need use restrictions, but there is a real problem with getting rid of data collection restrictions,'' says David C. Vladeck, a professor of law at Georgetown University. ''And that's where they are headed.''
''I don't buy the argument that all data is innocuous until it's used improperly,'' adds Mr. Vladeck, former director of the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission.
HE offers this example: Imagine spending a few hours looking online for information on deep fat fryers. You could be looking for a gift for a friend or researching a report for cooking school. But to a data miner, tracking your click stream, this hunt could be read as a telltale signal of an unhealthy habit -- a data-based prediction that could make its way to a health insurer or potential employer.
Dr. Pentland, an academic adviser to the World Economic Forum's initiatives on Big Data and personal data, agrees that limitations on data collection still make sense, as long as they are flexible and not a ''sledgehammer that risks damaging the public good.''
He is leading a group at the M.I.T. Media Lab that is at the forefront of a number of personal data and privacy programs and real-world experiments. He espouses what he calls ''a new deal on data'' with three basic tenets: you have the right to possess your data, to control how it is used, and to destroy or distribute it as you see fit.
Personal data, Dr. Pentland says, is like modern money -- digital packets that move around the planet, traveling rapidly but needing to be controlled. ''You give it to a bank, but there's only so many things the bank can do with it,'' he says.
His M.I.T. group is developing tools for controlling, storing and auditing flows of personal data. Its data store is an open-source version, called openPDS. In theory, this kind of technology would undermine the role of data brokers and, perhaps, mitigate privacy risks. In the search for a deep fat fryer, for example, an audit trail should detect unauthorized use.
Dr. Pentland's group is also collaborating with law experts, like Scott L. David of the University of Washington, to develop innovative contract rules for handling and exchanging data that insures privacy and security and minimizes risk.
The M.I.T. team is also working on living lab projects. One that began recently is in the region around Trento, Italy, in cooperation with Telecom Italia and Telefónica, the Spanish mobile carrier. About 100 young families with young children are participating. The goal is to study how much and what kind of information they share on smartphones with one another, and with social and medical services -- and their privacy concerns.
''Like anything new,'' Dr. Pentland says, ''people make up just-so stories about Big Data, privacy and data sharing,'' often based on their existing beliefs and personal bias. ''We're trying to test and learn,'' he says.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY FREDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); BIG DATA (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (72%); BIOLOGY (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (66%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



799 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Mixing Freedoms In a 32-Ounce Soda

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
ON narrow technical grounds, a New York State court recently rejected Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed curbs on large sodas and other sugary drinks. The ruling is being appealed, but many people who viewed the proposal as a step down a slippery slope to a nanny state were quick to celebrate the court's move.
Beyond questioning the mayor's legal authority to impose a 16-ounce limit on the size of sugary beverages sold in certain places, critics objected on philosophical grounds, arguing that people should be free to make such choices for themselves. 
But while almost everyone celebrates freedom in the abstract, defending one cherished freedom often requires sacrificing another. Whatever the flaws in Mr. Bloomberg's proposal, it sprang from an entirely commendable concern: a desire to protect parents' freedom to raise healthy children.
Being free to do something doesn't just mean being legally permitted to do it. It also means having a reasonable prospect of being able to do it. Parents don't want their children to become obese, or to suffer the grave consequences of diet-induced diabetes. Yet our current social environment encourages heavy consumption of sugary soft drinks, making such outcomes much more likely. So that environment clearly limits parents' freedom to achieve an eminently laudable goal.
The mayor's critics want to protect their own freedom to consume soft drinks in 32-ounce containers. But pro-freedom slogans provide no guidance about what to do when specific freedoms are in conflict, as they are here. Nor do they alert us to the possibility that taxes or other alternative policies often render such tough choices unnecessary. Sensible policy decisions spring less reliably from slogans than from careful assessment of the pros and cons of the relevant alternatives.
Does frequent exposure to supersize sodas really limit parents' freedom to raise healthy children? There's room for skepticism, because people often believe that they're not much influenced by others' opinions and behavior. But believing doesn't make it so.
As an Illinois state legislator in 1842, Abraham Lincoln deftly illustrated the absurdity of this particular conceit: ''Let me ask the man who could maintain this position most stiffly, what compensation he will accept to go to church some Sunday and sit during the sermon with his wife's bonnet upon his head?'' Most men, Lincoln conjectured, would demand a considerable sum -- not because wearing a woman's bonnet would be illegal or immoral, obviously, but just because it would be so unseemly.
Even those who concede the obvious power of the social environment have little reason to worry about how their own choices might alter it. Collectively, however, our choices can profoundly transform the environment, often in ways that cause serious problems. And that makes the social environment an object of legitimate public concern.
Imagine a society like the United States before 1964, where unregulated individual choices produced high percentages of smokers in the population -- more than 50 percent among adult men. Not even the staunchest libertarians should deny that their children would be more likely to become smokers in such an environment.
Smokers harm not only themselves and those who inhale secondhand smoke but also those who simply want their children to grow up to be nonsmokers. People can urge their children to ignore peer influences, of course, but that's often a losing battle.
No rational deliberation about smoking policies can ignore the fact that smoking harms others in this way. Such considerations helped give rise to a variety of policies that discourage smoking. In New York City, for example, smoking is no longer permitted in many public places, and state and city taxes on a pack of cigarettes are now near $6.
Such policies have reduced the national smoking rate by more than half since 1965, making it much easier for parents to raise their children to be nonsmokers. That's an enormous benefit. Opponents of smoking restrictions must be prepared to show that those adversely affected by them suffer harm that outweighs that benefit. Given that the overwhelming majority of smokers themselves regret having taken up the habit, that's a tall order.
Parallel arguments apply to sugary drinks. Unless we're prepared to deny, against all evidence, that the environment powerfully influences children's choices, we're forced to conclude that rejecting Mr. Bloomberg's proposal significantly curtails parents' freedom to achieve the perfectly reasonable goal of raising healthy children. Why should opponents of the mayor's proposal be permitted to limit parents' freedom in this way, merely to spare themselves the trivial inconvenience of having to order a second 16-ounce soda?
Fortunately, society's legitimate interest in the social environment needn't be expressed by means of invasive prohibitions. The public policy goal that prompted the mayor's proposal could also be served in more direct and less intrusive ways.
For example, we could tax sugary soft drinks. In 2010, the mayor himself praised a proposal for a penny-per-ounce tax on soda in New York State; the idea was dropped after heavy opposition from the beverage industry.
The case for reintroducing such a proposal is strong. We have to tax something, after all, and taxing soft drinks would let us reduce taxes now imposed on manifestly useful activities. At the federal level, for example, a tax on soda would permit a reduction in the payroll tax, which would encourage businesses to hire more workers.
Just as few smokers are glad that they smoke, few people go to their graves wishing that they and their loved ones had drunk more sugary soft drinks. Evidence suggests that the current high volume of soft-drink consumption has generated enormous social costs. So to those who have lobbied successfully against a soda tax, I pose a simple question: How do the benefits of your right to drink tax-free sodas outweigh the substantial costs of defending it?

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS (91%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DIABETES (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013



800 of 1015 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 24, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; WORKSTATION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Grand Exits That Never Earn Applause

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
''I QUIT!''
What put-upon worker hasn't fantasized about saying those words and walking out the door? Wisely, most don't go that far, at least not then and there.
It's fairly common to feel a passing urge to quit your job when you've hit a rough patch, says Nancy S. Molitor, a clinical psychologist in Wilmette, Ill., and a public education coordinator for the American Psychological Association. But the idea is surfacing in more employees' minds these days, she said.
Many of her clients have hunkered down at the same company over the last five or six years, just grateful to have a job in an uncertain economy, Dr. Molitor said. Some were promised raises, bonuses or stock once the recession ended, but now that better times have arrived, companies are hanging onto their cash and withholding those promised rewards, she said. One result is employee resentment. 
Sometimes an employee wants to quit because of an untenable working situation: an overbearing boss, a difficult co-worker, a crushing workload. Often, the reasons for feeling upset and wanting to quit are legitimate, Dr. Molitor said.
But because resigning has huge consequences, you never want to make that decision while in the grip of intense emotion, she said. Wait at least a week, and in the meantime discuss your feelings with a close friend, family member or therapist. Colleagues are another option -- they may have a much better grasp of office politics -- but make sure you trust them completely to keep your confidence, she added.
Anytime you cannot concentrate, or find yourself thinking the same thoughts about your job over and over again, ''that's a huge red flag,'' she said. You are reacting to pure adrenaline and emotion. So take some time to calm down, and if necessary seek professional help. If you feel you are in danger of quitting suddenly, take a day off to clear your head, she advised.
Sometimes when we feel unhappy or helpless in our personal lives, we project that onto our jobs -- and onto the boss, who has power over us, Dr. Molitor said.
Personal problems might be at least part of the reason for job dissatisfaction. Consider the 1977 country hit ''Take This Job and Shove It,'' in which Johnny Paycheck sings that the boss is a fool who ''thinks he's cool,'' but also that his ''woman done left'' and took away all his reasons for working.
The song's title still resonates, and for good reason. ''I've been there. We've all been there,'' said Robert I. Sutton, a professor and organizational psychologist at Stanford. In his heart, he's a ''take this job and shove it kind of guy,'' he said, ''but I have people around me who will save me from myself.''
Once you have cleared your head and separated emotion from reality, you may be able to find a way to change your work situation so that it's no longer intolerable, Dr. Molitor said.
Many employees need to work harder at advocating for themselves, she said. If you felt that you deserved a raise and didn't get one, try asking for one and you might succeed, she said. When preparing to talk to your boss about your concerns, it's wise to write down your points in advance, she added: ''That forces you to be coherent.''
After careful consideration, you may determine that your only option is to resign, but do so politely, and with plenty of notice. If you quit in a huff and make a dramatic exit, you can probably forget about using your employer as a reference, and word will most likely get out that you left your company in the lurch.
SUZANNE LUCAS, who writes a blog called the Evil HR Lady, says in a column for CBS News that it's generally a bad idea and ''just darn rude'' to quit a job on the spot. But she notes exceptions that would justify a quick departure -- for example, if staying in a job would put you in some kind of danger (a violent co-worker, say, or a safety violation), or would make you break the law or violate your ethical or religious standards.
In most cases, though, you can give notice. Try to be gracious when resigning, because ''how you end things is incredibly important,'' Professor Sutton said.
According to the ''peak end rule,'' as articulated by the psychologist Daniel Kahneman, the final memory that your co-workers have of you is likely to be much more vivid than most others, Professor Sutton said. If possible, you want that memory to be positive. He said that you, too, would feel better about the experience in retrospect if you quit in a graceful way.
''I'm a big fan of quitting,'' he said, so long as it's done for the right reasons and in the right way.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHANNA GOODMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2013

 
