

401 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; BATS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 5484 words

HEADLINE: Relishing a Glut of Sports

BYLINE: By MIKE TANIER

 BODY:
Many world-class sporting events are scheduled for today, and several of them are in the New York metropolitan area. Mike Tanier is blogging and tweeting at events and locations throughout the region, including the Mets-Yankees game in the Bronx, Game 5 of the Kings-Devils Stanley Cup finals in Newark and the Adidas Grand Prix on Randalls Island. Follow his progress here and on Twitter @FO--MTanier with the hashtag #fanathon.
Join the conversation below about today's landmark sports day. For more details on Tanier's journey, read his preview of the big events.
1:01 AM Bradley? Really? Oh Well, I'm Done 
The crowd at Dempsey's is as confused as we are.
Tim Bradley did not win the fight we watched.
At any rate, my eyes are barely open. This is a job for boxing experts. Or people who have not been awake for 20 hours.
This blog comes to a strange conclusion. That's boxing, folks.
Huh? #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
12:50 AM What????? Bradley Won?
Tim Bradley won?
I am hallucinating, right?
12:24 AM Fight Update
Pacquaio is crushing Bradley. This is like the French Open final, except that Sara Errani never rushed the net and tried to head butt or low blow Maria Sharapova.
Though that would have been quite an event to cover.
This is like rope a dope. Pacquiao keeps his guard up, makes every punch count. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
11:52 PM Reflections
With my journey really done, it is time to reflect. Here is what I will take away from this all-day trek:
Sunburn.
A newfound appreciation of how the music of Gypsy sounds on an arena organ in a Stanley Cup Finals game.
A Strat-O-Matic score sheet signed by game creator Hal Richman.
An understanding that women's distance runners and race organizers are tough enough to shake off a collision with a taxi.
A pair of jeans which, having spent half an hour on the floor of a Bronx basement bar, will have to be chemically washed or burned.
A better sense of who to root for in Olympic track.
A recognition that a race horse can still affect our lives.
A knowledge that the sports world is too big to fully appreciate. Focus on one thing, and five others slip past you.
A reminder that, on a beautiful spring day, there is nothing better than being at the game.
I am picking Bradley #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
11:45 PM Last Legs
Greetings from Jack Dempsey's on 33rd Street. It's a great atmosphere for boxing, and the crowd is glued to the pre-fight. They better be, after paying a $20 cover.
The Devils won, of course. In honor of that accomplishment, here is a transcript of the trash talk a Devils fan used against a small pocket of Kings fans at New York Penn Station:
''You never won a cup. You never, ever won a cup. You NEVER, EVER, won a cup. Never ever. Never ever ever.''
This went on for about two minutes. Then the Kings fans defended themselves. Then the Devils fan started to sound dumb.
Fight coming soon. It is beer o'clock at Dempsey's. Guys, please, no head butts.
11:34 PM Summer Fun at Newark's Penn Station
Newark Penn Station smooth jazz no ventilation madness encroaching. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
Devils fans are heckling Kings fans in Penn Station. How did they find them? #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
11:01 PM Devils Stay Alive
Devils win! Now, off to watch the fight! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
10:08 PM Stanley Cup FInals!
Blister in the Sun sounds like it was written for the hockey organ #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
Greetings from the Stanley Cup Finals at the Prudential Center in Newark.
The Devils are leading 2-1. As I sat down, Bryce Salvador picked up a two-minute high-sticking penalty for what looked like a wicked hit behind the net. The Devils withstood a flurry of Kings shots before time expired. It is the second intermission. The arena organ is jamming, taking us back in time to 1958 or so. ''Everything's Coming Up Roses'' is the song. When I think playoff hockey, I think Gypsy.
My brain is porridge. But I am here.
The atmosphere is electric, despite the music from Gypsy. This is what I need: the jolt of playoff hockey. The rush of an electrified crowd.
Let me entertain you. Or better yet, let the Devils and Kings do it. The third period is about to start. Welcome to the Jungle!
In the arena. Looking down at the ice. Life is good. #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
9:36 PM Made it in, Barely
At the devils game. But media trailer is closed. This calls for stragety. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
The credential person is helping us. Hooray! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
8:37 PM While Waiting for the train to Newark
I ponder...
Why do assistants carry track stars' equipment onto the track in laundry baskets? Isn't there a more dignified container? Should laundry basket downhill bobsled on a long flight of stairs be an Olympic event?
The pace runner in a distance track event has an important job. But if he or she went far too fast, would runners try to keep up and get gassed after 80 meters? If he or she walked, would they all grind to a halt? What if he or she went off course? Practical jokers can never be pace runners.
Do the folks at Yankee Stadium really need to inform us that Francis Scott Key wrote the National Anthem? Do people think it was written by Barry Manilow? Cheap Trick? Who on earth does not know but cares to know? Is there some Key relative collecting royalties?
When will this train arrive?
8:41 PM Heading to Newark
Stuck waiting for a 9 PM train. I WILL make it to the stanley cup finals #blogathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
8:40 PM New Guinness Record for Longest Board Game Marathon
The Strat o Matic guys have broken the record. And they are still playing! #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)10 Jun 12
7:25 PM Seeking a Second Wind
Fatigue is setting in. Looking at a lineup card I could swore it said Tony Lazzeri #fanathon #stratflashback
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
Time to try this mysterious energy packet they were giving away outside the stadium #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
7:15 PM At Yankee Stadium
It is a beautiful night for baseball, but I am only here for an inning or so. There is a bigger sporting event located in the very heart of the New York sports universe. Which is, of course, New Jersey.
There was a happy ending to the Belmont tale. Most of the patrons along the murderer's row of bars outside the stadium were indifferent to the race, but three guys in full Yankees garb kept the flame of horse racing alive. They cheered ''go U'' throughout the race, and when Union Rags won, they raised enough ruckus for a whole crowd.
It goes to show you that even when the stakes are not as high as you would like, a great race is a great race. And any race you have action on has the chance to be a great race.
6:48 PM Union Rags!
Union Rags wins the Belmont #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
6:26 PM A Bronx Trail
The crowd at Stans Sports Bar has Yankees on the mind. Nationals-Red Sox is on the main television, not a horse race.
Seeking a break from the basement floor of the Yankee Bar and Grill, I ventured out in search of better amenities, like a stool. But Stan's, teeming with Yankees fans, has forgotten the Belmont.
What a difference an injured horse makes.
So I returned to the Yankee. It is not like being at the Belmont. But people are drinking, excitement is in the air, and many people are oblivious to the race. So really, it is a lot like being at the Belmont.
All that's missing are crazy hats. But I did just see a guy in an Indians cap.
5:27 PM Live From a Bar Room Floor in the Bronx!
Plan A was to watch Oscar Pistorius run the 400 meters at Icahn Stadium, take a cab or an M35 bus back to 125st Street, take the No. 4 or No. 6 train back to midtown, hoof it to Penn Station, and then, depending on the time, either hop on the last Long Island Railroad train to Belmont or New Jersey Transit to Secaucus Junction, where my Honda Accord chariot could zip us to the Meadowlands, to catch the last few minutes of the Brazil-Argentina soccer friendly, followed by the Belmont simulcast.
Airtight, right?
Well, the M35 meanders along at the speed of Harlem traffic, which is not very swift on the day before the Puerto Rican Day Parade. And cabs don't usually venture out to Randalls Island midway through events. So photographer Ben Norman and I worked on our tans for a while.
Just learned Messi had three goals. Now 2nd to Paul McCartney for accomplishments by a dead guy. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
The woman ahead of us in the cab-hailing line offered to share, but just as she did so, the cab clipped her! Well, grazed her. It was not a Troy Polamalu hit, but Polamalu is not a cab. At any rate, she was fine, and still willing to share. It turns out that she was Mary Wittenberg, President of New York Road Runners, the organizers of this morning's 10K.
Wittenberg told stories from the not-so-good old days of women's distance running, back when Playboy bunnies led the field, then hopped off, to provide a jolt of prurient interest to a skeptical public. We leaped out at 125th Street and into the subway tunnel. The No. 6 train was about to depart. Norman, who was a high school tight end of some note, Gronkowski'd his way through the train doors and wedged us into place.
Unfortunately, we were going uptown to the Bronx, not downtown toward Penn Station.
Some subway interchanging later, we realized that the soccer game was in its waning moments. Since we were touring the Bronx anyway, there was only one place to go: Yankee Stadium.
So here I am, blogging live from the tiled floor of the Yankee Bar and Grill a block from the stadium as it fills up with thirsty Yankee fans. People are looking at me funny. Very funny. It probably has something to do with the fact that I look ridiculous sitting on this floor with a laptop as hip hop plays and people drink giant cans of Pabst Blue Ribbon.
Our Plan B: watch the Belmont here, something we would never do if I'll Have Another were still in the field. The horse is this story's absent center. After the race, an inning or so of Mets-Yankees, then a race to the Stanley Cup game.
Which means to go downtown. I will repeat that until it sinks in. Downtown. Downtown. Dow
(All apologizes to Tom Waits for stealing his next album title for use as the title of this blog post)
4:53 PM Change of Plans
Transit snafu. Gotta call an audible #fanathon.
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
3:40 PM Pistorius Fails to Qualify for London
Luguelin Santos took the men's 400 meter run with a time of 45.24.
Oscar Pistorius finished seventh at 46.14. His target time to make the Olympic team for South Africa was 45.30. The Blade Runner failed to qualify today but will have at least one more chance before London.
Time to leave Randalls Island for the next leg of my run!
3:29 PM More Track Results
T'Erea Brown wins the women's 400 meter hurdles with a meet record time of 54.85 seconds. Brown came from behind to pass Kaliese Spencer, who took a nasty spill at the tape but walked off the track without help.
There was a strange false start in the men's 1500 meter. All 20 runners took off, several seconds elapsed, and then the gun sounded. It was as if the speed of sound was reduced for a construction or school zone. Bernard Lagat overtook Ayanleh Souleiman in the final 200 meters to win at 3:34.63.
Running on her 20th birthday, Fantu Magiso coasted to victory in the women's 800 meters, setting a meet record and Ethiopian national record at 1:57.48.
The sun is shining, a breeze is blowing and records are falling.
If not for the little screen next to me with accurate spellings, covering this event would be the hardest job in the world.
Blade Runner. Coming Soon.
2:35 PM Track Update
Valerie Adams set a meet shot-put record at 20.09 meters. Ten minutes later, she broke it with a throw of 20.60 meters.
Tyson Gay ran the 100 meters in ten seconds flat to win the men's B race.
In the women's triple jump, Olga Rypakova broke the meet record by two feet with a 14.71 meter effort. We don't convert our measurements on this blog. We leave it as an exercise.
Cleopatra Borel was not the best shot putter in today's meet, but she is the loudest competitor of the day, by far. Her shot put scream blows away any noise Maria Sharapova makes. ''Born to Run'' was playing as she threw, and she pierced through Springsteen's ''Whoa-oh'' from a hundred feet away with little difficulty. The only louder thing we may hear tonight is Celtics whining.
Julian Coley is the fastest kid in New York with a 14.60 in the 100 meters. #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
2:01 PM Randalls Island: Its Own World
Icahn Stadium is the kind of place that can only exist in New York.
Randalls Island is essentially a king-sized anchorage for a freeway. The elevated interstate looms over the stadium like a canyon wall. In quiet moments, you become keenly aware of the constant rumble of traffic. In most parts of the world, there would be nothing of consequence on such a narrow, utilitarian strip of land, except perhaps a Mosquito Control Commission substation living under constant siege conditions.
But land is precious here, so Randalls Island hosts not just Icahn Stadium but ball fields, walking trails, a golf facility and several nature preserves. And Icahn Stadium hosts track fans, passionate about a sport most Americans ignore.
Ironically, they are playing Born to Run at one of the few times no one is actually running at this track meet #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
Track fans whoop with knowing astonishment when Sunette Viljoen wins the women's Javelin competition, setting a new American record at 69.35 meters. They break out the thunderbats for their favorite triple-jumpers. Some of them drink soda out of wine glasses.
And then, during the Youth Boys 4X400 meter relay, they cheer for the winning team, the second place team, and the third place team. With one relay team lagging far behind, they cheer louder. And louder. And louder still, until the last-place runner, teeth clenched in determination, hears a cheer louder than the one the winner received, louder than the one Viljoen received.
Icahn Stadium is a unique, beautiful place. The Adidas Grand Prix is a unique, beautiful event.
1:09 PM The Road to Macho
As this marathon marches on, the events get progressively more macho.
The morning began with a women's 10K run in Central Park (won by Edna Kiplagat in what felt like 11 minutes), then the Women's Final of the French Open (won by Maria Sharapova in what felt like 11 minutes). Then came a journey into nebbish neverland with the Strat-o-Matic marathon, still underway.
Now, we are at Icahn Stadium on Randall's Island, watching some junior's javelin and waiting for the main events. The Adidas Grand Prix has men's and women's events, but we are still in the non-contact sporting realm. With men's soccer and horse racing coming later this afternoon, we begin to cross over into the traditionally manly pursuits. Which is not to say Strat-o-Matic is not ''manly.'' It just is not quite ''traditional.''
Later in the evening, we transition from baseball to hockey. Just when you think we have reached the testosterone barrier, it is time for the Pacquiao-Bradley fight. It does not get more macho than boxing, though if there are two guys biting cinder blocks with their teeth in an alleyway somewhere, I will find it and cover it.
The long transition from feminine to ultra-masculine means something, perhaps: it mirrors the progression from dawn to dusk to late night, or from the solemn spirituality of distance running to the cold brutality of getting head-butted by Tim Bradley. It is too early in the day for such philosophizing. But the long journey into sweaty aggression may come to match my state of mind. During the 10K, I made cooing noises at puppies walking through Central Park. By midnight, I may be ready to bludgeon photographer Ben Norman with my laptop bag.
If he does not get me first (eyes darting about suspiciously).
Oscar Pistorius attempts to qualify for the Olympics at 3:32 p.m. Before that, we have the 1500m men, the 800m women, some high jumps, and more. Stay tuned.
Triple jumper Yargelis Savigne has a rowdy 3-person cheering section here, with thundersticks #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
12:38 PM En Route to the Adidas Grand Prix
In a cab, in Harlem, heading for Icahn Stadium #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
11:41 AM The Agony of Defeat
The Strat-o-Matic guys are in the zone. They are no longer munching muffins. They stare down at their cards from their table by the window of Foley's pub. They mumble Strat-speak to one another. Occasionally, they laugh and joke about surprise home runs. They are past hour fifty. They should break the record easily.
Meanwhile, I got to face Strat-o-Matic founder Hal Richman at his own game. Richman does not play Strat-o-Matic much. ''When you live the game 60 or 80 hours a week, you tend to stay away from it when you can,'' he told me. For The Times, he made an exception, grabbing a set of 1927 Yankees cards to battle my 1977 Phillies.
The Yankees won, 8-1. It was a beating. Waite Hoyt pitched a complete game. Babe Ruth homered. Mike Schmidt left five runners on base: proof positive for any Phillies fan that Strat is the most realistic simulation of anything, ever, on the planet.
Richman took time to show me the 1971 Gene Tenace card while thumbing through the A's set. The card, filled with walks, supposedly inspired the young Billy Beane to look at baseball in a different way, valuing on base percentage above batting average. From a little card game to a statistical revolution to a major motion picture: great ideas often have surprising origins.
The sun is out, and there are now patrons at Foley's who are not with the Strat crowd. The bar feels a little more like a bar. But it is time to go: Icahn Stadium and the Adidas Grand Prix awaits. The time for virtual sports has ended. It is time for real sports.
10:42 AM Marathon Men
Strat-o-Matic combines the fast-paced thrills of baseball, the romantic allure of spreadsheet analysis, and the social acceptability of Dungeons and Dragons. Yet somehow it has never caught on.
I kid because I love: Strat-o-Matic baseball is infectious fun, and I have played for 30 years. In the days before photorealistic video games, a Strat-o-Matic card, laden with columns of codes representing a batter or pitchers statistical tendencies, was the truest representation of a major leaguer a fan could possess, touch, and play with.
Strat-o-Matic baseball was developed by Hal Richman when he was a college student in 1961, but Strat was not the first dice-based simulation ever invented. After World War I, legendary Giants pitcher Christy Mathewson worked out the details of a dice game in his mind while recovering from his wartime injuries. Mathewson showed his notes to feisty Giants manager Jon McGraw, who ate them.
Later, the young Jack Kerouac devised his own baseball card game, based on imaginary players and local sandlot heroes. A sample from both cards, however, shows that Richman's concise style gave him a market edge over the would-be competitor:
Sample Strat-o-Matic card reading: SINGLE** (Translation: Single, runners advance two bases)
Sample Ker-ou-Whactic card reading: On the field the rosy reflections of celestial vapor appeared, and the heart-stab sadness of seeing lovers recede toward the horizon of this too-big world filled me, the hot wind off the stadium flags telling me it was time to leave the people of Denver with their well-ordered lives and straightened ties behind and race tumbleweeds along the prairie ribbon roads again. (Translation: Single, runners advance two bases).
Video games slowly killed the tabletop stars, but the Internet also saved Strat-o-Matic, allowing pockets of fans around the country to link up and form a community. An on-line version of the game - little more than the cards themselves and a die-roller program, with minimal graphic gingerbread - allows fans to play cross-country games. There are other board games that might seem more suited for a Guinness World Record marathon, like Monopoly or Risk, but few games arouse such passion and enthusiasm in their players.
Brett Carrow and Sam Henneman are two such players. The Minnesota natives participate in Strat tournaments and marathons. Carrow earned the title Strat-o-Matic Fanatic in a company-sponsored contest. Henneman started playing when he was 11 years old, hand-copying Carrow's Strat cards so he could have his own teams. They have no intention of stopping immediately when they break the world record for Longest Board Game marathon at 3 PM. They have embarked on a full 32 team tournament of historic teams. They have no intention of stopping until they crown a champion, or pass out face-first onto their RP charts.
With Sharapova victorious, a special treat: me versus Strat o Matic founder Hal Richman, in Strat o Matic baseball #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
They started their session at 9 AM on Thursday, replaying World Series rematch between the 1951 Giants and Dodgers. Jackie Robinson singled to lead off the festivities. A rotating team of official witnesses have kept their eyes on Carrow and Henneman around the clock since, making sure they don't drift off for a nap (they are given some carefully controlled break periods) or grab an XBOX controller and nip off for a game of Halo.
Richman was there when the marathon started on Thursday morning. He said he had no idea that Strat-o-Matic would still have a following 51 years later when he started marketing the game out of his home. ''I was just trying to support my family,'' he said. The man who invented the cards picked a clear favorite to win a tournament that includes teams from the 1911 Philadelphia Athletics to the 2008 Angels. ''Oh, the 1927 Yankees,'' he predicted. I said it was a ''clear'' favorite, not a surprising one.
But now, here at Foley's Pub, the 1927 Yankees are long gone. The 1966 Dodgers are locked in a tight series with the 1951 Giants. Richman thinks that there may be a finals series between the 1966 Dodgers and 1966 Orioles, a rematch of one of baseball's more forgettable World Series.
Carrow plays so often that his wife baked him a cake for his 10,000th Strat game. ''She supports his habit,'' Richman joked. Henneman completed a 46-hour marathon in April. ''By the 30th hour, I was sitting back in my couch, totally relaxed,'' he said. ''The euphoria kicked in.''
Richman thinks the 46-hour marathon prepared Henneman well for this record-setting bid. ''He's in pretty good shape,'' he said.
Both Carrow and Henneman are in their early 30s, young enough to have grown up in an era of realistic video games. They prefer dice, cards, and charts. ''You have the thinking aspect,'' Henneman said. ''The video games become mindless, and mind numbing.''
Interviewing Strat players in-game is difficult: players spout numerical code and 1950s baseball play-by-play in mid-sentence. ''We have been playing together for 20 years three-eleven Roy Campenella two-run home run and it's a great hobby.'' Carrow was too busy with pitching changes in the bottom of the eighth inning to speak in the preliminary interview. As of now, he is trying to coach Don Drysdale through the late innings of a close game. Drysdale is a horse. So is Carrow.
While they play, I am in for a special treat. I will be facing Richman himself in a Strat-o-Matic game, his 1927 Yankees against my 1977 Phillies. Gotta run: Steve Carlton needs to warm up.
10:20 AM Errani Service Break Bid Fails
Errani nearly broke service on Sharapova in the fourth game of the second set, but Sharapova rallied back after the second deuce. It is now 6-3, 3-1, and again, this looks like a Sharapova cruise situation.
If you have never been in a bar at 10 a.m., it is quite the experience. A fresh bleach smell wafts from the floor. The decor mocks you. ''What are you doing here?'' it seems to ask. ''Shouldn't you be at home, or out in the sun, or doing something besides sitting in a dark cave while patient waitresses clean glasses and set tables?''
In fact, there is something better to do: play Strat-o-Matic baseball for over 50 hours. More on that a bit later.
10:02 AM Do Not Blink on Sharapova
Having hustled from Central Park, where Edna Kiplagat won the New York Road Runners Mini 10K, to Foley's Pub on 33rd Street, where two guys are close to breaking a Guinness World Record for longest board game marathon, I looked up to find Maria Sharapova leading 6-3 and breaking service against Sara Errani.
Sharapova is cruising, as she has for most of the French Open, and I fear that in the time it takes to write an elaborate blog post, she will win.
So I will enjoy the match, and some eggs, in a bar at 10 a.m.
9:57 AM Next Stop: Foley's Pub for Tennis, and a Board Game Marathon
Sharapova is cruising, again. Knew if i didnt hurry i would miss it. At foley''s pub now #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
8:59 AM Distance Running and Juggling
At the end of the New York Road Runners mini 10K, participants walk a gauntlet. First they get a medal, then a flower, then a drink, then a snack.
That order seems wrong. It should go drink, snack, medal, flower. Or drink, medal, snack, flower.
At the end of the gauntlet there are rows of port-a-potties. At least that order appears to be correct.
There are participants all around the paths of Central Park trying to juggle. Most hold the flower and drink in one hand while munching an apple or bagel with the other. Others, who opted for the Popsicle, ditched the flower altogether so it did not get sticky. The medal goes around the neck, but some are carrying theirs, which is ergonomically all wrong, but dehydration can do funny things to the decision making process.
And the ones still fiddling with their MP3 players risk losing everything.
8:52 AM Mini 10K
Post race, runners get a medal, then a flower, then a drink, then a snack. Somehow, that order seems wrong. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
8:26 AM Kiplagat Winning, MP3 Players Failing
The difference between an Olympic distance runner and a casual distance runner at the New York Road Runners Mini 10K:
The Olympian starts the race with a carefully-practice motion, gracefully gliding through her first few paces until she reaches the proper pace and stride for the early stretch.
The casual distance runner fumbles with her MP3 player for about a hundred yards while trying not to crash into the runner in front of her.
MP3 players have a built-in function that makes them become glitchy at the time you need them most, like before long flights or when you need your motivational music to get through a grueling race. The women in the crowded pre-race field, in unison, looked down at their recalcitrant personal stereos, wondered why they weren't hearing their carefully-chosen cardio playlists, then shrugged their shoulders as if to say, oh well, Neil Diamond will do for a few thousand meters.
The participants did not start their MP3 players early because they had to listen to the pre-race instructions and directions. Yes, directions: a race organizer goes through a Google Maps rundown of the course. Is anyone really relying on those directions? Doesn't everyone follow everyone else except the Olympians and marathon champions, who follow the pickup truck full of photographers, strapped in with bungee cords? Luckily, this race does not hinge on exhausted people remember complex directions given from a loudspeaker: everything is well signed and barricaded.
Still, I fear that later today I will run into some lost runner around 110th Street, wondering where she missed the turn.
And her MP3 player will still not be working.
Edna Kiplagat is about to win the race. More to come.
Lady Marmalade is playing on the speakers. The runners demand more cowbell. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
8:05 AM 10K Mini Marathon Has Begun
The first 200 yards of any 10K are spent getting the recalcitrant mp3 player to cooperate. #fanathon.
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
7:47 AM Our National Pastime
The Saturday morning distance run is America's national pastime.
You may never have visited a major league baseball stadium or picked up a bat since the fifth grade. You may have sacrificed playing basketball to age, football to common sense, golf to the recession. Or maybe you never played them at all. But you have participated in a Saturday morning distance run.
You have run five kilometers or ten. You have run through Municipal Park, around Local Lake, from East Side Fire Station to West Side Fire Station. You have run to raise money or raise awareness or lose weight. You have felt the euphoria of the approaching finish line and the self esteem shrinkage of being passed by a pregnant woman.
Or, if you can't imagine running more than a few feet without zombies-aliens-creditors in pursuit, you have participated by standing behind the tape, clapping and cheering. Spectators are real participants in the Saturday morning distance run. Derek Jeter does not need to hear your cheers. Your wife does.
The New York Road Runners 10K Mini Marathon, now in its 40th year, is not a mini event. There is a $10,000 first-place prize. Running slots sell out weeks in advance. Thousands of women flood Columbus Circle this time every year, stretching and hydrating, alone or in groups, their spouses, children and loved ones offering support while trying not to get in the way. Olympic marathoners compete in the race, including Desiree Davila and Janet Cherobon-Bawcom, who will compete in London this summer. But most of the other runners will arrive by bus or train, from the boroughs or New Jersey. You will see them wearing their numbers on PATH trains and walking up Eighth Avenue. They are us: or our wives, sisters, daughters, mothers and neighbors.
And there are hundreds of thousands of others like them competing in 5K and 10K races around the country on this Saturday morning, or next, or last. There is a 5K run in Philadelphia this morning, another in Granville, Ohio, another in Riverton, Wyoming. There's a 10K in Howell, Michigan. There are many others, their schedules wedged into corners of community bulletin boards, benefiting needy children or anti-drug campaigns. Show up a half-hour early, park in the church lot, get your number in the courthouse basement, start on Elm Street, finish at the middle school, take your kids to a movie afterward.
You run to see if they can do it. You run to beat last year's time. You run because stress and anxiety cannot reach you after your heart rate reaches a certain threshold. You run because you have loved ones who cannot. You run because it is Saturday morning, and the skies are clear, the air fresh, and it is silly not to do something healthful and invigorating and challenging at the start of a promising day.
You run because you love to. I watch because, frankly, I cannot stand to.
7:16 AM A Race to the Starting Line
The New Jersey Turnpike at dawn: a road for truckers, fisherman, and lost souls.
I am neither a trucker nor a fisherman. And as I drove into a dazzling, layered sunrise, my soul hardly felt lost. But then, the Turnpike split, and in my bleariness I forgot that I am on a multi sport quest today, not simply covering the Giants.
So for a few moments I truly was lost. In Seacaucus.
All is well now on the train to Manhattan for the Central Park 10K. Getting there is half the battle, they say.
Made it to the 10K. And i beat some of the participants! #fanathon - Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
6:30 AM Saturday's Sports Odyssey Begins
Saturday's goal is to gorge on sports.
Saturday's goal is to cheer, clap, gasp, laugh, sweat, curse, burp, and maybe cry. It is to be amazed, thrilled, bored, inconvenienced, confused, enervated, exhausted, and inspired. To guzzled iced coffee and diet soda, transfer from subways to buses to cabs, traipse through parking lots, stand in betting lines, sit on bar stools, leap from stadium seats, freeload from press box buffets.
Saturday's goal is to share arenas with champions, occupy the same point on the earth as Olympians, watch winners crowned and records broken. It is to cram as many sports experiences as possible into one day.
Saturday's goal is to be a true fan.
Any transcendence experienced along the way will be purely incidental.
Preparing to shove off. I'll Have Another, if you are reading this, my thoughts are with you today. #fanathon
- Michael Tanier (@FO--MTanier)9 Jun 12
Tanier is en route from New Jersey Turnpike Exit 3 to Manhattan. His odyssey starts sometime around 8 a.m. ET at the Mini 10K in Central Park.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A fan outside MetLife Stadium before an Argentina-Brazil friendly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Competitors at the New York Road Runners Mini 10K in Central Park on Saturday morning. Above right, a marathon session of the game Strat-O-Matic at Foley's Pub approached Hour 50.
At the Adidas Grand Prix, Oscar Pistorius finished seventh in the men's 400 meters.
Filing a post from Yankee Bar and Grill, near where the Yankees played the Mets.
At Jack Demsey's in Manhattan, a fan showed off his Devils-themed beard.
 As shown on television, Manny Pacquiao's family and friends surrounded him before his fight against Timothy Bradley. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BOXING (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ICE HOCKEY (77%); SPORTS FANS (75%); RUNNING (73%); BURN INJURIES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK METS (84%)

PERSON: MANNY PACQUIAO (52%); MARIA SHARAPOVA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



402 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Law's Fate Aside, Hospitals Evolve

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Giant aquariums now soothe pediatric patients at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. It has added welcome signs in 10 languages, a state-of-the-art cardiac operating room and programs to keep chronically ill adults safely at home. But as Pamela S. Brier, the chief executive, was walking to the main entrance last week, she spotted a rain-soaked plastic bag on the front steps.
Millions of dollars in revenue now depend on improving patients' perceptions of the hospital. ''I can't stand it,'' Ms. Brier muttered, and she darted over, her cream chiffon dress fluttering, to scoop up the litter herself.
It was the first Monday in June, counting down to a United States Supreme Court decision that could transform the landscape of American health care. But like hospitals across the country, Maimonides is not waiting around for the verdict. 
Win, lose or draw in court, administrators said, the policies driving the federal health care law are already embedded in big cuts and new payment formulas that hospitals ignore at their peril. And even if the law is repealed after the next election, the economic pressure to care differently for more people at lower cost is irreversible.
''If the Supreme Court overturns this law -- I pray it won't -- the world will go on changing,'' Ms. Brier said. ''In some ways, we've changed ahead of it.'' But she added, ''Trying to manage all these different aspects of the health care system as they are changing does make you crazy.''
The century-old hospital, at the Borough Park crossroads of Hasidic, Asian, Caribbean and Hispanic neighborhoods, is often cited by state regulators as an example of good management and community service.
It has been in the black since 1996, after Ms. Brier took charge of operations, and has increased patient volume every year while achieving some of the nation's best clinical outcomes, including exceptionally low mortality rates for pneumonia, heart failure and heart attacks.
Yet even in a city with notoriously cranky consumers and cramped spaces, Maimonides's patient satisfaction scores are abysmal -- especially in its maternity units, which deliver 8,000 babies a year. And starting next year, under ''value-based purchasing'' contracts mandated by the health care law and already entrenched in Medicaid and Medicare rules, failure to improve the satisfaction of surveyed patients will cost hospitals.
Some hospitals have resorted to hiring outside consultants who coach nurses to recite a script praising the care -- a strategy resented by short-handed staff members and denounced by their unions. Maimonides (pronounced my-MON-eh-deez), a 711-bed hospital that recently added valet parking and free Wi-Fi, instead asked labor-management teams in every unit to invent their own improvement projects. In one initiative, nurses are making hourly rounds to offer patients extra help.
Last Monday, a new father spoke with heartfelt gratitude of the night nurse who had explained that the chair where he was dozing upright opened into a bed.
''They treated us like family,'' said the father, Iftekhar Aslam, 23, an American citizen born in Pakistan, beaming under his baseball cap at his wife, Sobia Khanum, and their newborn son.
He had not minded sharing the room, divided by a curtain, with another pair of new parents -- ''Israel people,'' he said, adding joyfully, ''That's New York -- it's freedom here!''
Ms. Khanum, 26, was pleased, too, but mentioned that her husband had been so ill with fever before her due date that she had feared he would miss the birth. As a contractor without insurance, she said, ''he didn't go to the hospital because they send a huge bill.''
In theory, if the health care law works as intended, Mr. Aslam could become part of an influx of newly insured patients, offsetting government cuts in payments to hospitals that treat a disproportionate share of the poor and uninsured. But no one at Maimonides is counting on it.
''Quite frankly, if everything goes perfectly and everything is upheld, there's a lot of confusion and a lot of uncertainty here,'' said Dominick Stanzione, the hospital's chief operating officer. ''We also have an election coming up.''
The cuts, on the other hand, seem inexorable, and not only because Medicaid and Medicare budgets are strapped. The policy thrust in health care financing, private as well as public, is to abandon reimbursements to hospitals according to the number of days patients spend in a bed, in favor of models that use a fixed sum per patient or set of patients over time, regardless of where care is delivered or how little it costs.
Maimonides's own successes have helped sell policy makers on the idea. Its collaboration with a state psychiatric hospital a few years ago, for example, put medical-mental health teams in storefront offices to manage the care of low-income patients with serious mental illness. Such patients, who are eligible for both Medicaid and Medicare, are among the health system's most expensive and tend to have the worst outcomes. The program cut hospitalizations in half and reduced emergency-room use by 30 percent.
''When the State Health Department people saw our data, the little dollar signs danced in their heads,'' Ms. Brier said.
Now, under a government contract, Maimonides is gambling on a bigger version of that program in partnership with 50 community agencies and Lutheran Medical Center, its closest competitor, to care for 15,000 mentally-ill people in what policy makers call a Health Home.
Such models immediately mean fewer visits to the emergency room, which is still a hospital's ''cash cow,'' said Dr. Karen R. Nelson, executive director of the Health Home consortium. But ways for hospitals to reap part of the government savings are still in development, and patients excluded from the Affordable Care Act as illegal immigrants will still require costly emergency care.
''For a hospital to undertake this when A.C.A. is uncertain is very scary,'' Dr. Nelson said.
At the same time, Maimonides is competing on the old fee-for-service turf by recruiting surgical and cancer specialists, partly to woo more commercially insured patients.
There, too, pitfalls abound: a growing share of the hospital's unpaid medical bills are for patients who have private insurance but have been pushed into high-deductible plans, administrators said. Moreover, such plans typically do not reimburse care in the collaborative models the hospital is working so hard to develop -- a problem that could intensify, they said, if the court rejects the individual insurance mandate but lets the rest of the health care law stand.
The gulf between model and reality was evident last week in the emergency room, which had more than 114,000 visits last year, up from 83,000 eight years ago.
In a section where triaged patients are seated to save space for more stretchers, one of those known as ''frequent fliers'' was back for the seventh time in six months, covered by Medicare.
The man, Lewis Rosen, 62, who said he had to come in for a psychiatric visit anyway, was unhappy with the rate of healing of an incision in his leg, despite treatment at an outpatient wound care center and home visits by a nurse.
''We're our own worst enemy,'' said Dr. Kenneth Sable, head of the emergency department, scrolling through Mr. Rosen's electronic medical record. ''Instant gratification is what people have come to expect.''
An older man hunched on a stretcher began to cry. It was his third visit in three days with a complicated story about a dental problem that he said had affected his mobility. After tests, he had been referred to a neurologist, but had not gone.
''I don't want pain medication,'' cried the man, Salvador Monduori, 68. ''I don't want to go home.''
Seven hours later, when doctors concluded that there was nothing more to do, they had to call security to make him leave, Dr. Sable said.
On a gurney at the other end of the room, Luis Velecela, 36, a construction worker, was confused but stoic after a diagnosis of stomach cancer. He had no insurance, he said, and had been treating his pain and nausea with antacid pills until an endoscopy at Maimonides revealed the tumor.
''All hospitals in the country are facing the same changes,'' Dr. Howard L. Minkoff, head of obstetrics, said later. ''We are doing it without a net.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Iftekhar Aslam with his wife and their newborn son, above. Pamela S. Brier, left, chief executive of Maimonides Medical Center, is trying to raise the hospital's patient satisfaction rate. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PEDIATRICS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); HEART DISEASE (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); MEDICAID (73%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); PNEUMONIA (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); APPEALS (69%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (58%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



403 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Radio Royalty Deal Offers Hope for Industrywide Pact

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
For decades, the recording industry has lobbied Congress to change how radio stations pay royalties. The broadcasters have lobbied just as hard to preserve the status quo, making an agreement look all but impossible.
But last week, a groundbreaking deal by Clear Channel Communications, the country's largest radio broadcaster, raised the possibility of a solution to the standoff through marketplace negotiations instead of political head-butting. It also put the spotlight on how federal copyright law keeps up with digital media.
The agreement, between Clear Channel and Big Machine, the record label behind Taylor Swift and other country acts, will for the first time allow a label to collect a royalty when its songs are played on the radio. 
In the United States -- and almost nowhere else -- radio companies pay only songwriters and music publishers, not record companies. The system, dating back almost a century, is based on the idea that radio play has enough promotional value for performers that they do not also need to be paid royalties.
The arrangement has long irritated labels and performers; Frank Sinatra was a vocal opponent. But with record sales plummeting over the last decade, the labels have pursued royalties more urgently as an additional revenue stream.
''Terrestrial broadcasters have an inexplicable 'free ride' when it comes to performance royalties,'' Ben Allison, a jazz musician and the governor of the New York chapter of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, the organization that produces the Grammys, told a House subcommittee last Wednesday at a hearing with music and technology executives called ''The Future of Audio.''
''They are exempt from paying performers any royalties when they use our recordings to fuel their multibillion-dollar industry,'' Mr. Allison continued. ''This makes corporate radio the only business in America that can legally use another's intellectual property without permission or compensation.''
So why did Clear Channel change its position, breaking ranks with its powerful lobbying group, the National Association of Broadcasters?
The answer apparently has nothing to do with politics; with Republicans expected to retain control of the House in this year's elections, few in the industry predict a new Washington battle is likely. Rather, it has to do with digital music, and Clear Channel's desire to reshape its business in anticipation of rapid changes in the marketplace.
When the first webcasting laws were passed in the 1990s, labels and artists gained the right to performance royalties for online streams. But webcasters have long complained about the size and structure of these royalties, which are set by federal statute. The more people listen, the more the companies have to pay -- unlike on radio, where stations pay a set percentage of revenue to music publishers. Pandora Media pays more than half its revenue in music royalties.
For Clear Channel, digital royalties are a looming problem. Today, 98 percent of listening to its stations is through its 850 terrestrial radio stations, and 2 percent is online, the company said. But that is expected to change, which would leave Clear Channel and other broadcasters exposed to expanding royalty payments. To limit those expenses, Clear Channel struck its deal with Big Machine, bypassing the federal ''penny rate'' for a share of advertising revenue, both online and over the air.
As various forms of digital music proliferate, the distribution of royalties has become a crucial issue throughout the industry, with efforts to reach new agreements, expand existing systems or bypass those systems entirely.
Last week, SoundExchange, a nonprofit group in the United States that processes online royalties, made five deals, bringing the number of foreign countries from which it collects royalties to 22. Yet Sirius XM Radio recently has sought ways to avoid SoundExchange through direct licensing agreements with record labels, an effort that has proved contentious.
For Clear Channel, the Big Machine deal is likely to be a money loser in the short run, because it will be paying the label far more for terrestrial radio play than it will save online. But if the deal takes hold, it could save Clear Channel a great deal of money in the long run and change the economics -- and politics -- of radio.
The Clear Channel deal came up several times at the Congressional hearing on Wednesday, and was often characterized as a positive sign that the marketplace could solve a problem that high-powered lobbying had been unable to settle again and again.
''We're obviously delighted that the biggest radio group acknowledged that something should be done,'' said Cary Sherman, the chairman of the Recording Industry Association of America.
Media executives used the hearing to air some of their familiar concerns and requests, including the need for the government to be tough on piracy and the broadcasters' wish to have radio chips placed in mobile phones.
Tim Westergren, the founder of Pandora, called for lower rates for streaming services and for equivalent royalty systems across media, because Pandora must pay labels millions of dollars in royalties that broadcast radio companies are not required to pay.
''It is time for Congress to level the playing field and to approach radio royalties in a technology-neutral manner,'' Mr. Westergren said. ''The current rate-setting law is unfair to performing artists, unfair to record labels, and unfair to Pandora and Internet radio as we compete every day with broadcast radio and satellite radio for listener loyalty and advertising and subscription revenue.''
Few companies have the negotiating leverage of Clear Channel to change an entrenched royalty system. But its Big Machine agreement at least suggests that changes can be made in the industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stations get a ''free ride'' on royalties, Ben Allison, a musician, told Congress. Clear Channel made a deal with Big Machine, Taylor Swift's label. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 PAUL KANE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROYALTIES (92%); LOBBYING (91%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (91%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (76%); POLITICS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); JAZZ & BLUES (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (74%); COPYRIGHT (73%); SALES FIGURES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SONG WRITING (69%)

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); PANDORA MEDIA INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF RECORDING ARTS & SCIENCES (54%)

TICKER: P (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: TAYLOR SWIFT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



404 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 292 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be reported this week will include import prices for May (Tuesday); retail sales for May, the Producer Price Index for May and business inventories for April (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, the Consumer Price Index for May and the current account deficit for the first quarter (Thursday); and industrial production for May and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for June (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Kroger and Smithfield Foods (Thursday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday through Friday, Apple will conduct its annual worldwide developers conference in San Francisco.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council will meet in Washington (Monday). The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's board will meet to consider proposals for enacting the Basel III accords on bank capital requirements, and the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee will conduct a hearing about the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (Tuesday). Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, will testify before the Senate Banking Committee about risk management and the bank's huge trading loss (Wednesday).
IN EUROPE George Osborne, the British chancellor of the Exchequer, and Gordon Brown, a former prime minister, are scheduled to testify at the media ethics inquiry set up in response to News Corporation's phone-hacking scandal; and Olli Rehn, the European economic and monetary affairs commissioner, will speak before the European Parliament (Monday). The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet in Vienna (Thursday).
IN ASIA The Bank of Japan will conclude a two-day policy meeting, and Toyota Motor will have its annual meeting (Friday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCER PRICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ETHICS (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); RISK MANAGEMENT (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); NEWS CORP PHONE HACKING SCANDAL (65%); SCANDALS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (70%); NEWS CORP (67%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (54%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); NWS (NASDAQ) (67%); NWS (ASX) (67%); SFD (NYSE) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); TYT (LSE) (53%); TM (NYSE) (53%); 7203 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (70%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (67%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (51%); GORDON BROWN (50%); GEORGE OSBORNE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



405 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: At Meeting of Left's Online Activists, Weighing Impact of Attack Ads

BYLINE: By SARAH WHEATON

 BODY:
PROVIDENCE, R.I. -- Internet-savvy members of the political left have found the root of their problem -- the ''super PACs'' unleashed by the Supreme Court's Citizens United ruling. They just do not know how to solve it.
This year's Netroots Nation conference fell just days after Tuesday's failed effort to recall a union-busting Republican governor in Wisconsin. The liberal activists and bloggers who gathered here for the four-day event were clearly upset that their highly refined ground game could not overcome the huge financial advantage held by the governor, Scott Walker, and his forces. 
Mr. Walker's victory was attributable only in part to the Supreme Court case that paved the way for unlimited donations to outside political groups. Still, the conference attendees feared that especially in races further down the ballot, super PACs would hit their candidates with a barrage of attack ads that they could not match.
''The reality is we're not going to change the system overnight,'' said Daniel Mintz, campaign director at MoveOn.org. ''This is a new world, and if we don't figure it out, we're going to have a lot more losses than wins.''
Others suggested that voters would get weary and cynical.
''In the long run, people are going to stop believing the ads,'' said Alan Grayson, a former congressman from Florida who lost his seat in 2010 but is running again in a more favorably drawn district. ''Everybody's campaign is going to be different because of the effect of Citizens United.''
Success, Interrupted
By some measures, the left has had a successful year. There was Occupy Wall Street and the defeat of anti-union legislation in Ohio.
Social media campaigns restored financing to Planned Parenthood from the Susan G. Komen Foundation and eliminated much corporate money going to the American Legislative Exchange Council, a conservative organization behind policies like the Stand Your Ground law at the center of the Trayvon Martin case in Florida.
An apparently improving economy combined with a hard-fought Republican primary race to ease worries about President Obama's re-election.
But things have changed in the last few weeks.
''I fear Mitt Romney, I fear a Republican Senate, and I fear a Republican House,'' said Paul Baker, 62, who co-founded a company based in Chicago that makes apps to promote government transparency.
Last year's conference was marked by the left's frustration with the president. But this year, his name simply did not come up much -- and when it did, it was invariably paired with a favorable comparison to Mr. Romney. As Van Jones, a former Obama administration official, said, they are ''no longer comparing Obama to the Almighty and instead are comparing him to the alternative.''
The president addressed the conference via a video emphasizing promises he has kept and featuring a family that relies on the health care overhaul to pay for their son's hemophilia medication. But his campaign did not send a senior aide or a surrogate.
An Obama-Biden booth in the exhibition hall attracted a steady stream of people signing up to volunteer or discuss blogging about the election, and his digital outreach team hosted nuts-and-bolts sessions about online training and using Microsoft Excel.
The Left's New Star
Elizabeth Warren, on the other hand, received standing ovations both before and after her speech on Friday. Though she is running for Senate in Massachusetts, Ms. Warren, a consumer watchdog and Harvard law professor, has become a national star of the left.
''The Republican nominee said corporations are people,'' Ms. Warren said. ''No, Mitt, corporations are not people. People have hearts, they have kids, they get jobs, they get sick, they love, cry, they dance, they live and they die. Learn the difference.''
Just hours later, at a party hosted by the A.F.L.-C.I.O., attendees were bemoaning the influence of big money in politics but were at a loss on what to do about it, barring changing campaign finance laws. Many were resigned to ceding the ad war to the right.
Strategists are considering ways to ''inoculate'' candidates against negative advertising through an improved ground game and an emphasis on using social media for personal interaction and persuasion, rather than blasting messages indiscriminately. Some expressed a heightened sense of urgency behind frequently discussed aspirations of financing a liberal message machine, including bloggers and radio stations.
''Donors are getting increasingly frustrated with funding TV ads, which might win an election but don't create lasting value,'' said Kari Chisholm, an Internet campaign strategist from Portland, Ore.
While Netroots Nation is perhaps the most prominent gathering of left-wing critics of the Democratic establishment, they were nonetheless reminded of the left's fractious nature. Across the street, Occupy Wall Street protesters camped out, calling for taxes on the wealthiest 1 percent and drawing attention to a state bailout of 38 Studios, the video game company of the retired baseball star Curt Schilling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); LEGISLATION (68%); STAND YOUR GROUND LAWS (67%); TRAYVON MARTIN SHOOTING (61%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); SCOTT WALKER (70%); ALAN GRAYSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



406 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: An N.R.C. Nomination Is Shining a Spotlight On the Disposal of Waste

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee meets on Wednesday to consider President Obama's choice to head the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, three themes are likely to dominate the questioning: waste, waste and earthquakes.
Collegiality and diplomacy may also be mentioned, given that the commission's current chairman, Gregory B. Jaczko, has drawn criticism for his aggressive management style. 
The nuclear industry would, no doubt, prefer more uplifting confirmation hearing topics, like new reactor construction or progress on radical new designs that would make nuclear plants more useful or economical.
But for the first time, the president has chosen a geologist for the post, Allison M. Macfarlane of George Mason University, and her expertise aligns with the pressing concerns facing Congress and the nuclear industry. She is a longtime critic of the idea of burying waste at Yucca Mountain, a volcanic structure about 100 miles from Las Vegas chosen by Congress in the late 1980s, considering its geology too unpredictable. With little new plant construction, the commission's main responsibility these days is assuring the safety of the 104 plants now operating, and what to do with the decades-old problem of waste.
On Friday, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that the commission had not paid enough attention to the problems of long-term waste storage or the possibility that there will never be a repository.
The industry, its opponents, Congress and the courts are all focused on whether a disposal site can be found for the nation's nuclear waste, and whether waste should be moved out of fuel pools and into sturdy dry casks to better protect them from earthquakes and terrorism. Quakes that struck reactors in Japan and in Virginia last year also raise questions about the safety of today's reactors.
When the president picks a geologist, ''it's a new day and a new age and a new way of looking at things,'' said Robert R. Loux, a former director of the Nevada Nuclear Waste Project Office, which opposed construction of a waste repository in that state.
Dr. Macfarlane, who declined to be interviewed before her confirmation hearing, does not seem to have said much in public about the desirability of nuclear power as opposed to other electricity sources. But she has opposed Yucca Mountain, which was ruled out by Mr. Obama but is still favored by most Republican lawmakers and some Democrats.
''It is almost impossible to decipher the detailed history of a rock, let alone predict reactions into the geologic future,'' Dr. Macfarlane wrote in ''Uncertainty Underground: Yucca Mountain and the Nation's High-Level Nuclear Waste,'' a collection of scholarly articles published in 2006 that she jointly edited.
She wrote the concluding chapter, in which she said, ''Geology has not advanced far enough yet to expect that it can do this for the rocks at Yucca Mountain.'' The Department of Energy's analysis tries to establish that Yucca would entomb the wastes for a million years, but no one should have confidence in the science behind such predictions, Dr. Macfarlane wrote. In 2010, she was appointed to the 15-member Blue Ribbon Commission assigned to look into alternatives to Yucca.
The industry and the commission are still debating what should be done with the waste until a permanent repository is found. Dr. Macfarlane is already on record as favoring reducing the amount in the pools and moving more into dry cask storage. While the spent fuel in pools at Japan's damaged Fukushima Daiichi plant is still causing worries, the waste in the casks is secure even though a tsunami rolled through the area.
An earthquake last August centered in Mineral, Va., hit the twin-unit North Anna plants there with greater force than its reactors were designed to withstand. They were shut down for weeks for inspection, yet no significant damage was found.
As a geologist, Dr. Macfarlane would be likely to take an active role in the commission's re-evaluation of earthquake safety east of the Rockies, prompted by a United States Geological Survey reassessment of earthquake probabilities.
Her confirmation is considered highly likely, mainly because of the Senate's practice of confirming members to multimember agencies in pairs, one Democrat and one Republican. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader, and other Republicans called for the reappointment of Kristine L. Svinicki, whose term expires at the end of this month. Ms. Svinicki, a nuclear engineer, is one of the few women to serve on the commission. She was previously on the staff of the Senate Armed Services Committee and has dealt with military and civilian nuclear issues.
Dr. Svinicki would be confirmed to a full five-year term. But if confirmed, Dr. Macfarlane would serve out the remainder of Dr. Jaczko's term, which runs to June 30, 2013. Because the chairman is designated by the president, however, she could lose that role if the White House changes hands in January.
And while the Republicans on the committee may not like Dr. Macfarlane's position on Yucca, they have acknowledged publicly that Dr. Jaczko, who announced last month that he would step down, has been far too divisive as chairman.
Dr. Macfarlane, 48, who has taught environmental science at George Mason University since 2006, does not have experience running a government regulatory panel. Fellow members of the Blue Ribbon Commission and others who have dealt with her in an academic context said she frequently tried to build consensus among colleagues on technical issues. Commission votes are often divided, like Supreme Court justices' opinions, but nuclear industry executives say the relentless discord at the commission has slowed the agency's decision-making.
Edwin Lyman, a nuclear expert at the Union of Concerned Scientists, said: ''The chairman doesn't have that much additional authority; when it comes to policy issues, it's just one vote out of five. The chairman's power is based partly on the ability to persuade.''
Dr. Jaczko has frequently been outvoted 4 to 1 on decisions like April's vote to approve a construction and operating license for two new reactors near Augusta, Ga. The chairman has a bigger role in administrative decisions, which Dr. Jackzo used to slow down consideration of Yucca Mountain; if Yucca questions reached her desk in the next few months, Dr. Macfarlane is expected to do the same.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Allison M. Macfarlane, nominated to succeed Gregory B. Jaczko, has been described as having a collegial approach. Mr. Jaczko has been criticized for his management style. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN CANTWELL/GEORGE MASON UNIVERSITY
 MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NUCLEAR WASTE (89%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (71%); APPEALS COURTS (66%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%); TERRORISM (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



407 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
MYANMAR DECLARES STATE OF EMERGENCY
Myanmar declared a state of emergency in a western state where at least 17 people have been killed this month in violence between Buddhists and Muslims. The violence poses another obstacle to the government of President Thein Sein as he tries to open up the country after years of isolation. PAGE A4
FIGHT OVER MILITARY HOSPITAL 
With scant public notice, the Defense Department is closing and relocating the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany, the only top-level military trauma center outside the United States. A debate between the Pentagon and Congress is simmering over the size of its replacement. PAGE A5
PROTESTS OVER PINOCHET FILM
Hundreds of people protested in Santiago, Chile, near a theater where supporters of the former dictator Gen. Augusto Pinochet attended the screening of a pro-Pinochet documentary, reflecting the divisions that still exist in Chile almost 40 years after he seized power in a bloody coup. PAGE A7
FRENCH SOCIALISTS FARE WELL
President Francois Hollande's Socialist Party appears to be on course for a majority in the French National Assembly in the first round of voting for the lower house. Final results will be clear only after another round of voting next Sunday, since few candidates got more than the 50 percent of the vote required to win their seats outright. PAGE A8
LIBYA DELAYS ELECTION
Libya's transitional government postponed the first national election since the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi to July 7. PAGE A8
NATIONAL
HEARINGS MAY FOCUS ON NUCLEAR WASTE
When the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee meets to consider President Obama's choice to head the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the themes likely to dominate the questioning will be waste and earthquakes. The president has chosen a geologist for the post whose expertise aligns with the pressing concerns facing Congress and the nuclear industry. PAGE A11
RACE FOR GIFFORDS'S SEAT
The contest to fill the Congressional seat vacated by Gabrielle Giffords, the Democrat who survived an assassination attempt last year, has been widely referred to as the race for ''Gabby's seat.'' Her chosen successor, Ron Barber, has tried to step out from her shadow, though, saying that the race is, in fact, for ''the people's seat.'' PAGE A13
NEW YORK
BLOOMBERG DEFENDS STOP-AND-FRISK POLICY
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg took to the pulpit of a church in Brooklyn to argue that the Police Department's so-called stop-and-frisk policy policy had helped make New York the safest big city in the country, while acknowledging that the police needed to treat those whom they stopped with greater respect. PAGE A14
OBITUARIES
FRIEDRICH HIRZEBRUCH, 84
A scholar who helped revive the German mathematical community after World War II and whose work in unifying disparate parts of mathematics gave birth to new tools and fields of research. PAGE B10
BUSINESS
APPLE KEEPS LOYALTYOF MOBILE APP DEVELOPERS
Smartphones running Google's Android operating system outsell iPhones more than two to one. But Apple has held onto one critical advantage -- the loyalty of mobile app developers, who have continued to make applications first, and sometimes only, for iPhones. PAGE B1
WALL STREET GOES GREEN
Facing bad publicity on practically every front, big banks like Bank of America are highlighting what has quietly become a hot growth area in recent years -- backing projects and companies in sectors like renewable energy, emissions reduction and reduced-carbon transportation. PAGE B2
AN EXPANSION AT POLITICO
Just as print publications across North America are cutting newsroom staff and daily publication schedules, Politico is expanding. The news outlet is hiring 20 more reporters and editors to help increase its coverage on the economy and military. PAGE B4
SPORTS
OPEN FINAL SUSPENDED WITH NADAL AHEAD
Bad weather and darkness conspired to suspend the French Open final between Raphael Nadal and Novak Djokovic. PAGE D5
ARTS
EXPO OFFERS A PEEK AT GAMES OF THE FUTURE
At the annual Electronic Entertainment Expo, one of the world's most important video game conventions, the talk of the show was Nintendo's Wii U, expected later this year as the successor to the revolutionary Wii system. Much of that talk was unimpressed. Critic's Notebook, Seth Schiesel. PAGE C1
JEWISH ART FESTIVAL PLANNED
Kulturfest: The First Chana Mlotek International Festival of Jewish Performing Arts in 2015 will be a weeklong festival in New York with 100 events including concerts, film screenings and theater focused on an exploration of Jewish identity. PAGE C1
OP-ED
PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); RELIGION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); COUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRAUMA CENTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ASSASSINATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); NUCLEAR WASTE (69%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (64%); ENERGY REGULATION (64%); POLICE FORCES (63%); MATHEMATICS (50%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%); THEIN SEIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (54%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHILE (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



408 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: While Seeking Support, Obama Faces a Frustrated Hispanic Electorate

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
As President Obama heads into the main stretch of his re-election campaign, his immigration policies have produced few gains among Latinos, whose votes could be crucial for him in November.
The Department of Homeland Security reported last week that only about 4,400 deportations of illegal immigrants had been halted nationwide under a major initiative started a year ago.
In a strategic shift, immigration authorities had said they would focus on deporting criminals and people who cheated the visa system, while sparing illegal immigrants with clean records. But after an administration review of more than 288,000 deportation cases before the immigration courts, the total suspended by prosecutors so far is less than 2 percent. 
That is not the only policy that has been a jarring disappointment for Latinos. Mr. Obama, who easily won a majority of their votes in 2008, promised to move in his first year to overhaul the immigration system and to give legal status to illegal immigrants.
As it becomes clear that Mr. Obama faces a tight race against the presumed Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, pressure is building for him to do something more for Latinos.
Early in his term, Mr. Obama put a stop to raids in factories and fields that snared many illegal immigrants who were working to support families. But quiet inspections of employers' hiring records have accelerated, forcing many thousands of unauthorized workers to leave their jobs.
The Department of Homeland Security has aggressively expanded a fingerprinting program, which vastly increases the chances for an illegal immigrant to be detained, even for minor offenses like traffic violations.
In January, administration officials announced a measure that would make it easier for Americans who are married to illegal immigrants to gain legal residence for their spouses. Although it awakened great hopes -- there are hundreds of thousands of couples in that situation -- the measure is making its way through the bureaucracy and will probably not take effect before November.
At the same time, Mr. Obama's record on deportations has not been matched since the 1950s, with nearly 400,000 foreigners removed in each year of his term.
''People are saying, 'What gives?' '' said Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director of immigration issues for the National Council of La Raza, or N.C.L.R., the nation's largest Latino civil rights organization. ''Immigration is deeply personal for many of our voters, and there is disillusionment out there.''
Hispanics tend to have low rates of voter registration. Polls show that they place a higher priority on jobs and education than on immigration. But many Hispanic immigrants have family or friends who are here illegally.
Despite his immigration results, Mr. Obama enjoys a wide lead over Mr. Romney among Hispanics. A recent Gallup poll, based on nationwide telephone interviews conducted from May 14 to June 3, found that Hispanic voters favored Mr. Obama over Mr. Romney by 67 percent to 26 percent. In the 2008 and 2010 elections, Latinos mobilized late but in large numbers against Republicans who took a hard line against immigration, handing victories to Mr. Obama and other Democrats in closely contested states.
This year, Mr. Obama's supporters are warning, it may be much harder to prompt that late turnout, even though many Latinos have been dismayed by attacks on illegal immigrants by Mr. Romney and other candidates in the Republican presidential primary race.
''There is ambivalence about the president, where there really should be none,'' said Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.
During Mr. Obama's first two years, he leaned hard on enforcement, seeking to build credibility with Republicans to attract their votes for an immigration overhaul. But with the economy lagging and millions of Americans out of jobs, Republicans backed away from proposals that would aid illegal immigrants. In 2010, they rebuffed a bid by Mr. Obama to pass the Dream Act, a bill to give legal status to students who are illegal immigrants.
Since then, the administration has tried to soften the impact of deportations on communities by focusing on expelling criminals. But the effect has been limited.
''I do believe the administration has the right intention, prioritizing deportations,'' Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, a leading Democrat on immigration issues, said after seeing the low figures from the deportations review. ''But these abysmal numbers raise serious questions about whether the Department of Homeland Security is making that vision a reality.''
The White House defends its programs for Latinos, saying they go far beyond immigration. On Saturday, senior administration officials gathered in Arlington, Va., for the latest in a series of town-hall-style meetings the White House organized with local Hispanic leaders to discuss jobs, education and health, as well as immigration. Also, Cecilia Munoz, the White House domestic policy council director, has made it clear that the administration will try to blame Republicans for Mr. Obama's failure to pass his immigration overhaul.
Democratic leaders are saying that is not enough. Mr. Menendez called on the administration to expand the reviews to stop deportations of many more immigrants who are close relatives of citizens. Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat who is the chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, said prosecutors should give work permits to immigrants who are allowed to remain here under their case reviews.
Students who would be eligible for legal status under the Dream Act are demanding that Mr. Obama grant them a general reprieve from deportation. One group of students staged a sit-in protest last week at the Obama campaign office in Denver.
Latino leaders are worried. Ms. Martinez de Castro said, ''Our immigration policy cannot continue to be at war with our beliefs and our needs.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Audience members listened to President Obama speak in El Paso last year about his push for an immigration overhaul. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FINGERPRINTING (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); FAMILY (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



409 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Allies Restrict Airstrikes Against Taliban in Homes

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The senior allied commander in Afghanistan has ordered new restrictions on airstrikes against Taliban fighters who hide in residential homes, coalition officials said Sunday, a move in response to a NATO attack in the eastern part of the country last week that Afghan officials say killed 18 civilians.
''Given our commitment to protect Afghan civilians, restricting the use of air-delivered munitions against insurgents within civilian dwellings is a prudent and logical step in the progression in the campaign,'' Jamie Graybeal, a NATO spokesman in Afghanistan, said in an e-mail on Sunday. 
Officials said the directive from Gen. John R. Allen, the commander for international and United States forces in Afghanistan, underscores NATO's existing commitment to protecting civilians. It also marks a triumph for President Hamid Karzai, who has repeatedly stressed that civilian casualties undermine relations between the countries. Mr. Karzai has frequently pushed for a less confrontational approach in dealing with the Taliban.
After a meeting on Saturday between Mr. Karzai, General Allen and Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker of the United States to discuss the issue, aides to Mr. Karzai released a statement saying that General Allen had pledged to halt attacks altogether on residential areas and homes.
On Sunday, however, American officials said General Allen's order did not necessarily go that far and sought to describe it in more nuanced terms, saying that NATO would continue to conduct operations against insurgents who use civilian dwellings for shelter.
''When there is concern over the presence of civilians, air-delivered munitions will not be employed while other means are available,'' said a senior United States defense official who was not authorized to speak publicly on the policy deliberations.
Militants often hide in civilian homes, so a complete ban on airstrikes could hinder the ability of American forces to pursue the Taliban. General Allen's order does not affect ground operations against insurgents. An agreement between the two countries in April gave lead authority for night raids to the Afghans, although missions are to be conducted jointly and targets selected by consensus. Allied officials still retain control over dropping bombs in these operations, and Afghan officials say they were not involved in the decision to carry out the fatal airstrike last week.
That attack marked a setback to an encouraging trend: Civilian casualties in Afghanistan dropped significantly in the first four months of 2012, and a smaller proportion of the deaths was attributed to coalition and Afghan forces compared with a year earlier, the United Nations director in the country said last month.
The joint Afghan-NATO raid last week was hunting a Taliban commander and some of his fighters who had holed up in a home in Logar Province where a wedding had taken place, according to local residents. An early-morning firefight broke out between the coalition troops and the insurgents, with the civilians trapped inside. The coalition decided to call in an airstrike, which killed the insurgents but also 18 civilians, including 9 children, Afghan officials said.
On Friday, General Allen apologized for the civilian deaths and took the unusual step of meeting with the relatives of some of those killed.
At the high-level meeting the next day, Mr. Karzai said that conducting airstrikes against insurgents near residential areas and homes would not only hurt the two countries' often tense relationship, but could also jeopardize a newly signed strategic partnership agreement, said the American defense official, who was briefed on the meeting.
That pact, which President Obama and Mr. Karzai signed in Kabul last month, addresses a broad range of issues, including security and social and economic development. It pledges American support for Afghanistan for 10 years after the withdrawal of combat troops at the end of 2014.
General Allen did not disagree with Mr. Karzai, and said that the allied campaign was at a stage where an agreement to cease airstrikes near civilian dwellings was reasonable, the American official recounted.
''This was less a demand than it was an appeal to ensure that the agreements made between the two countries cannot be put into jeopardy by other actors,'' the American official said. ''But make no mistake, we are going to preserve our flexibility to protect our troops and our partners.''
General Allen's directive comes nearly two years after Gen. David H. Petraeus, upon assuming command of international forces in Afghanistan, issued new guidelines on the use of force in Afghanistan that expanded restrictions on artillery strikes and aerial bombardment, but clarified that troops had the right to self-defense.
Troops widely complained that restrictions put in place by General Petraeus's predecessor, Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, exposed them to excessive risk by tying their hands when they sought to attack people suspected of being militants or destroy buildings used to harbor insurgents.
But General McChrystal's rules were popular with Afghan officials, including President Karzai, and human rights advocates, who said the restrictions had significantly reduced Afghan civilian deaths.
On Sunday, human rights advocates expressed wariness about whether General Allen's orders would have an immediate impact. ''We've seen improvements in detention-related abuses and excessive force at checkpoints, but when it comes to civilian casualties, we're still seeing tragic incidents, even today,'' said John Sifton, Human Rights Watch's advocacy director for Asia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); TRENDS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



410 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Obama Campaign Seeks to Move On After Tough Week

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
The task forPresident Obama's campaign this week: turn things around.
All presidential campaigns have bad weeks, and when they come in early June, it is hardly a disaster. But it is also important for campaigns to clean things up after they have gotten a bit messy, and that is what Mr. Obama's team will have to do after the week that ended with Friday's problematic news conference on the economy.
As usual, Mr. Obama has his presidential week planned out for him. But the official schedule of events will be the backdrop for getting back on message. 
Here is how Mr. Obama will most likely try to recover:
FUND-RAISING Last week, Jim Messina, Mr. Obama's campaign manager, tried to use the bad news about the money wars. ''We got beat!'' he wrote in an e-mail to supporters afterMitt Romney raised almost $17 million more than Mr. Obama in May.
If that reverse psychology works, June could be a better month.
For most of the past year, liberals had assumed that Mr. Obama would outraise the Republican candidate, a blase attitude that may no longer be common among Mr. Obama's most ardent supporters.
Mr. Obama will start this week with another fund-raiser in New York City. The dinner withAnna Wintour, the editor of Vogue magazine, and the actressSarah Jessica Parker is sure to generate plenty of cash, as well as headlines good and bad.
COUNTERPUNCH It took only a few hours after the news conference on Friday for Mr. Obama's campaign to return to the offensive, and it is likely to continue attacking this week as the president travels to Maryland, Pennsylvania and Ohio to try to to regain momentum.
Campaigning in Iowa on Friday, Mr. Romney mocked Mr. Obama's assertion that more federal money should be spent to help states pay for teachers, firefighters and police officers. Mr. Obama's campaign quickly pounced, accusing him of not supporting those professions.
Campaign surrogates took to Twitter, blogs, cable TV and newspapers, seeing an opportunity to raise questions about Mr. Romney. It was part of an effort to deflect attention from Mr. Obama's assertion at the news conference - later reversed - that the ''private economy is doing fine.'' That message continued on Sunday.
''He said we don't need any more teachers,''David Axelrod, the president's senior campaign adviser, said of Mr. Romney on CNN's ''State of the Union'' on Sunday. ''We don't need any more teachers?''
He continued, ''What planet is he living on where he thinks we can take these kinds of hits in our education system and move on as a country?''
CHANGE OF SUBJECT One of the best ways to recover from a bad week is to talk about something else, and for that, there is no better job in the world than to be president of the United States.
On Wednesday, Mr. Obama will present the Presidential Medal of Freedom toShimon Peres, the president of Israel, at a dinner at the White House.
The next day, he will travel to New York City for a visit to ground zero. It is designed to coincide with a milestone in the construction of One World Trade Center, a ''topping off'' ceremony that will commemorate the completion of the framework. But it will also provide a way to shift coverage toward a different and safer conversation.
THE UNKNOWN Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign was particularly good at deftly reacting to events; his handling of the economy's collapse in September of that year may have cemented his election. There is no reason to think that his current campaign will not be just as effective in that area.
What will the president have to confront in the coming week? Europe's leaders will be grappling with the debt crises in Greece, Italy and Spain. The investigation into national security leaks may pick up steam. The situation in Syria could turn even worse.
How the president handles those events - and others that might arise - could help redirect his campaign, for better or for worse.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Axelrod
 The ''private economy is doing fine,'' President Obama said Friday. He reversed that assertion later in the day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); LIBERALISM (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (62%)

COMPANY: VOGUE MAGAZINE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); JIM MESSINA (58%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



411 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Banks Look to Burnish Their Images by Backing Green Technology Firms

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Diane Cardwell contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Call it the greening of Wall Street.
In the wake of a $30 billion commitment to new environmental investments by Wells Fargo in April and a $40 billion promise from Goldman Sachs this month, Bank of America will announce a 10-year, $50 billion initiative of its own on Monday.
Facing bad publicity on practically every front, the big banks are highlighting what has quietly become a hot growth area in recent years -- backing projects and companies in sectors like renewable energy, emissions reduction and reduced-carbon transportation. 
Bank of America officials said the initiative encompassed steps including underwriting initial public offerings for so-called green companies, making loans to consumers who buy hybrid vehicles and helping developers to retrofit old factories as well as investing in renewable energy.
In addition, the bank is promising to make specific reductions in its own consumption of energy, paper and water. By 2015, Bank of America's goal is to reduce energy consumption by 25 percent from 2004 levels, along with a 20 percent reduction in paper and water use from 2010 levels. The company is also pledging $100 million in grants and low-interest loans as part of the program.
Environmental advocates said the timing of the announcement was not coincidental.
The financial services industry is looking for ways to burnish its image, but Bank of America in particular has been criticized for lending to the coal industry, with activists calling attention to the issue at its annual meeting in April. What is more, the public promises by the banks cover activities they would probably undertake otherwise as part of their ordinary lending and capital-raising business.
Bank of America's announcement comes nine days before a United Nations meeting in Rio de Janeiro on the environment and sustainable development. Bank of America's chairman, Charles O. Holliday Jr., plans to attend the conference and is co-chairman of a United Nations panel on sustainable energy.
''We're glad to be able to share it in Rio, but we timed this to when we were ready,'' said Catherine P. Bessant, who heads global technology and operations for Bank of America. The bank announced a 10-year, $20 billion initiative in 2007 and will hit that goal by the end of 2012, Ms. Bessant said.
''The market is really vibrant, with lots of transaction potential,'' she said. ''If no one ever wrote about it, we'd be doing it anyway. It is absolutely core to the success of the company.''
There is a new hunger for capital among green companies, as well as new interest on the part of investors. At the same time, new regulations are requiring companies to raise money and invest in new technologies that reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. In addition, the banks are capitalizing on federal tax credits being offered to encourage investment in renewable energy.
Solar and wind power projects, often financed with a mix of private equity, debt and tax credits, have been viewed as attractive investments because they create long-lived assets with reliable cash flows.
Investors are also growing increasingly comfortable with a cluster of companies that finance smaller-scale solar installations for homes and businesses and then collect payments for the electricity the panels produce.
Bank of America's initiative focuses on four sectors for new investment and financing -- energy efficiency, renewable energy and energy infrastructure, transportation, and water and waste.
Of the $17.9 billion that has been financed under Bank of America's 2007 program, about $8.4 billion has gone for energy efficiency. An additional $5 billion was aimed at renewable energy projects like installing solar power systems for the San Jose, Calif., public schools and replacing charcoal-burning stoves in Africa with ones that burn bioethanol. The $17.9 billion figure also includes nearly $1 billion in consumer loans for hybrid cars.
''We've acknowledged the impact of climate change and the role that fuel plays,'' Ms. Bessant said. ''You aren't going to find a company that's more serious than we are.''
Environmental advocates who have been critical of Bank of America in the past praised the company's latest initiative but said it should not obscure the bank's record on coal.
''I am not knocking any bank that chooses to fund renewable energy and it's great to be reducing your own emissions,'' said Amanda Starbuck, energy and finance program director of the Rainforest Action Network, which protested loans to the coal industry at Bank of America's annual meeting in April.
''But they're setting the wrong target,'' Ms. Starbuck added. ''Until Bank of America addresses coal and other carbon-intensive fuels they're financing, this is like green-washing.''
Still, Bank of America's new goal would put it ahead of Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo, as well as Citigroup, which announced a 10-year, $50 billion environmental investment program in 2007. Of that $50 billion, $36.4 billion has already been allocated, said Bruce Schlein, Citigroup's director of corporate sustainability.
Goldman's $40 billion program, announced last month, covers areas as varied as solar and wind power generation, energy storage and green transportation. In April, Wells Fargo announced an eight-year, $30 billion program aimed at increasing green investment by 2020.
Both Wells Fargo and Bank of America say they have not made any decision to back away from coal as part of the new initiatives. But Kyung-Ah Park, who heads the environmental markets group at Goldman Sachs, said her bank had turned down coal-related projects in the past. ''We haven't financed new coal-generation projects in the United States in a few years,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Big banks have contributed financing for solar panel installation projects like this one in Hawaii. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEND LEASE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (77%); CONSUMPTION (76%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); HYBRID VEHICLES (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX LAW (60%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (54%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CHARLES O HOLLIDAY JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (77%) HAWAII, USA (79%) BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2012



412 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Push for a Fiscal Pact Picks Up Speed, and Power

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In an ornate room in the Capitol last Wednesday night, the Democratic senators who could hold the key to preventing a fiscal train wreck gathered for dinner and a talk with economists about their options for dealing with nearly $8 trillion in combined tax increases and spending cuts that are to be put in place automatically in January.
For two years, backbench senators -- some of them freshmen like Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, and some of them iconoclasts like Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma -- have been meeting off and on to try to find a bipartisan solution to the nation's fiscal woes.
What separated the unannounced Wednesday session, organized by Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, from the earlier ones was the collective weight of the participants: the Senate's No. 2 and No. 3 Democrats, Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Charles E. Schumer of New York; the chairman of the Finance Committee, Max Baucus; and the chairman of the Budget Committee, Kent Conrad. 
The hunt for a way to avert a crisis appears to be quickening -- and, significantly, it now includes the people who might be able to make it happen. Senators who have been working fruitlessly on a budget deal since 2010, as the so-called Gang of Eight, say their efforts will get nowhere without help from Congressional leaders, especially the committee chairmen with the expertise to draft legislation.
Those people are starting to come on board.
''We're making headway,'' Mr. Baucus said cautiously on Thursday, confirming the Wednesday dinner, ''but it's important the Senate does not box itself out with legislation on the floor too quickly.''
Republican leaders remain largely on the sideline. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican, applauded what he called ''grass roots'' negotiations, but conceded that neither he nor other party leaders had been directly involved, aside from efforts to stave off automatic defense cuts. Still, even he is making conciliatory comments on raising taxes, the issue that has kept Republican leaders from the table.
The automatic tax increases and spending cuts are products of Washington's failure to resolve its fiscal straits. Because Republicans could not win enough votes for permanent tax changes in 2001 and 2003, they used parliamentary maneuvers to enact the tax cuts, with an expiration date at the 2010. Rather than reach a permanent resolution then, President Obama and Congressional leaders punted the issue in December 2010 for two more years.
The automatic spending cuts were mandated last August as a backup plan if negotiations in Congress on long-term deficit reduction failed. They did.
About $100 billion needs to be found to cancel the first round of defense cuts, Mr. Kyl said. ''Democrats want taxes to be a part of that,'' he said in an interview. ''Well, we think that's a bad idea, but let's sit down and talk.''
With what the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, calls the ''fiscal cliff'' less than six months away, concern is growing.
Last Tuesday, about 35 senators from both parties discussed the problem with the departing president of the World Bank, Robert B. Zoellick, and the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, William C. Dudley, in a meeting previously reported by Politico. The dinner on Wednesday featured Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody's Analytics, and Robert D. Reischauer, a former Congressional Budget Office director and past president of the Urban Institute.
On Monday, Mr. Baucus will deliver a speech to the Bipartisan Policy Center in Washington on the path toward a simpler tax code that could generate more revenue. Later in the week, the Senate Finance Committee will meet on a host of tax issues.
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, has begun drafting legislation on entitlements and tax policy that he hopes will be a template for talks in the coming weeks.
''There's broad agreement on platitudes, but we haven't seen any legislative language,'' he said. ''What we need now is to start talking about a tangible piece of legislation that people can read, that people can amend, that people can negotiate with.''
But senators involved in the negotiations cautioned that a deal remained a ways away. Even as some lawmakers spoke of compromise, Senate Democrats gathered on Thursday with Andrew Kohut, president of the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press, to look over polling on their political strength defending entitlements like Medicare and Social Security. If Democrats head to the ramparts to defend entitlements, Republicans are likely to dig in against revenue increases.
''We've got a lot of talking to do in the next few months,'' said Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia. He would not divulge the contents of the talks, saying that even discussing the efforts in public could set them back.
The stakes are only now beginning to dawn on lawmakers, several senators said. Critical to the new push was a report last month by the Congressional Budget Office that predicted a recession if Congress allowed all of the Bush-era tax cuts to expire at the same time a host of other tax breaks lapsed and automatic spending cuts went into force.
''That's a big deal,'' Mr. Kyl said. ''Everybody's starting to get worried about this, Democrat and Republican.''
Mr. Zandi has run numbers on options for heading off a plunge over the cliff while beginning to address the trillion-dollar budget deficit. If nothing is done, several measures taken together would slow economic growth by 4.6 percentage points and thus set off a recession, according to Moody's Analytics.
They include the end of the Bush-era tax cuts, the beginning of the automatic spending cuts, plus an expansion of the alternative minimum tax. They also include the expiration of Mr. Obama's payroll tax cut and emergency unemployment insurance and cuts to Medicare provider payments.
But if the tax cuts are extended for households with incomes below $250,000, Medicare payments remain the same, the alternative minimum tax is kept at bay and the automatic spending cuts are cut in half, the economic hit could be held to 1.5 percentage points.
Deficit reduction would be substantial and build confidence, Mr. Zandi said, and if Congress could reach a ''grand bargain'' on a long-term fiscal path forward, the impact on economic growth would be ''huge'' because a burst of business confidence in Washington could set off a wave of investment and hiring.
Democratic leadership aides said top Democrats like Mr. Schumer had been wary about the negotiations of the Gang of Eight for more than a year, fearing that in their zeal for a deal, freshman Democrats would give away too much on Medicare and Social Security without getting real concessions from Republicans on revenues. But in recent weeks, enough Republicans have shifted their tone to give hope that a true compromise can be found.
Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has said he has ''crossed the Rubicon'' on a tax-code overhaul that would yield more revenue. Other Republicans have quietly suggested that all of the Bush-era tax cuts would have to lapse temporarily. That way, reinstating most -- but not all -- of them would be scored as a tax cut, both by the Congressional Budget Office and by Americans for Tax Reform, a group led by Grover Norquist that is the keeper of the ''no new taxes'' pledge virtually every Republican has signed.
One senior Republican, speaking on the condition of anonymity to avoid crossing Mr. Norquist, said that as the deadline approached, the ''pledge'' would be dwarfed by the ''cliff.''
''You look at what's getting ready to happen, a $5 trillion tax increase, nobody wants that to happen,'' the senator said. ''The pledge becomes irrelevant on Dec. 31.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sen. Max Baucus, right, was among the Democratic leaders who met with economists last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%)

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (78%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%); TOM COBURN (58%); JON KYL (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); KENT CONRAD (58%); MARK WARNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



413 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Latvia and the Romney Record

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Emigrate expectations. 

 BODY:
OK, not a connection you expected anyone to make. But there's something there.
You see, there has been some back and forth over Romney's job creation record as governor of Massachusetts. The truth is that governors don't have much impact on such things, but for what it's worth, MA job creation was lousy. The response of the Romney people has been to cite the state's low unemployment rate when he left office; the response to the response is that this was due to people leaving the state.
Now, there's nothing wrong with labor mobility; but driving down unemployment by getting people to move someplace else isn't exactly a recipe for national recovery.
Which brings us to Latvia, where unemployment, though still very high, has come down. But this has a lot to do with a huge fall in the labor force, driven to an important extent by emigration. From Eurostat:
Again, nothing wrong with labor mobility -- but if Latvia is supposed to be a role model, somehow having all of Europe move to someplace else in Europe doesn't quite seem like a sustainable proposition ...

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); LATVIA (90%); EUROPE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



414 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Panel Finds U.S. and Europe Behind Schedule on Financial Rules

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: In a report to Group of 20 leaders, regulators and central bankers found that the United States, the European Union and Japan are behind schedule on measures that were adopted as part of an effort to avert future banking crises. 

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Despite fresh reminders of the fragility of the financial system, the United States, the European Union and Japan are behind schedule on implementing measures that were adopted as part of an international effort to avert future banking crises, a high-level panel said Monday.
In a report to Group of 20 leaders ahead of their summit meeting in Mexico next week, regulators and central bankers from the world's largest countries gave poor marks to the regions that have been most vulnerable to banking crises in recent years.
The United States ranked behind China, India and Italy, among other countries, in the progress made to implement rules known as Basel 2.5, which are intended to prevent banks from underestimating the riskiness of their activities, according to the report by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision. The United States, as well as Japan and Europe, also received poor grades for the efforts they had made toward implementing rules known as Basel III, which stem from the financial crisis that engulfed developed countries after the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers in 2008.
The rules are designed to improve the ability of banks to absorb losses and avoid the need for a taxpayer bailout. They are ''essential for restoring confidence in the regulatory framework for banks and to help ensure a safe and stable global banking system,'' the committee said.
The committee, based in Basel, Switzerland, is made up of representatives of central banks and bank regulatory agencies from the world's largest nations, including the United States, China and Germany. Countries represented on the committee have agreed in principle to apply its findings.
The report comes as tension in the European financial system again raises questions about whether banks remain prone to crises that can ripple through society.
While American banks are generally considered healthier than European banks, the $2 billion trading loss disclosed by JPMorgan Chase last month illustrated that risks are still lurking.
In Europe, the common currency has been threatened by a crisis in Spanish banks that will require a bailout of up to 100 billion euros, or $125 billion. Banks in many other countries, including Germany and Italy, remain in a weakened state and are struggling to reduce risk and raise fresh capital.
The Basel Committee has been empowered by G-20 leaders to draw up standards for banks, but it is up to individual countries to put them into force. Banking industry representatives, who say the rules will lead them to curtail lending, have been able to water down the rules or slow their implementation in many countries.
The report Monday was part of an effort to put pressure on countries that are lagging behind.
While the European Union and Japan have made more progress than the United States in drafting the latest rules, the Basel Committee report said, they have deviated from some of the standards.
For example, the proposed European Union and Japanese rules allow a broader definition of what qualifies as loss-absorbing capital. One lesson of the financial crisis was that banks sometimes padded their capital with risky assets that didn't help protect against losses.
In a response to the report, United States regulatory agencies noted that they applied a more stringent measure of capital. In fact, American banks may have emerged from the crisis more quickly in part because regulators were slow to apply earlier standards that proved faulty.
United States requirements ''are both demanding and effective relative to Basel standards,'' the United States officials said in a statement.
The Japanese and European authorities also disputed the findings of the committee, saying that their deviations from the Basel standards were not significant.

        
Basel Committee Agrees Bank Buffer Strategy
        
Derivatives Without Borders vs. Dodd-Frank

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EURO (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (70%); CURRENCIES (69%) Basel Committee; Group of 20; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (95%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (96%); JAPAN (95%); SWITZERLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); GERMANY (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



415 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Why the Bailout in Spain Won't Work

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: It now appears that the $125 billion bailout of Spain's banks could make things there worse, not better. And market indicators for the next domino in line for a bailout, Italy, point in the wrong direction. 

 BODY:
It was not enough. And it may never be enough.
The euro zone's offer of $125 billion to bail out Spanish banks over the weekend was hailed by finance ministers and officials across Europe as a masterstroke. Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Schuble, suggested no further bailouts would be needed, saying, "Spain is on the right track." On Sunday, some analysts and investors even applauded, with David R. Kotok, co-founder and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors, proclaiming: "Euro zone leaders rose to the occasion." How wrong they were.
By now, it should be apparent that the bailout has failed - or is at least on its way to failing.
After a brief rally Monday morning, stock markets in Spain swooned. The 10-year Spanish bond - perhaps the greatest indicator of confidence, or in this case a lack of confidence - jumped higher, to about 6.5 percent, demonstrating that investors were now even more anxious about the country's ability to pay back its debts than they were the day before the bailout was announced. Seven percent was the threshold that preceded the government bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal in 2010 and 2011. The cost on Monday of buying credit-default swaps - or insurance - on Spanish debt spiked, too.
Indeed, it now appears that the bailout could make things in Spain worse, not better. And market indicators for the next domino in line for a bailout, Italy, point in the wrong direction.
This was bound to happen. That's because bailing out the banks in each European country individually is a fool's errand.
Experts often note - wrongly - that TARP, the Troubled Asset Relief Program that pumped $700 billion into the banking system in the United States, arrested the financial crisis in 2008. TARP, to some degree, has become the model for Europe.
But we forget history: TARP was only one component of the bailout. Perhaps more important - consider it the unsung hero of ending the crisis - was the government's unilateral move to raise the amount of money the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation could insure, increasing the account limit to $250,000 from $100,000 and fully backstopping the entire money-market industry.
Investors and bank customers who were considering taking their deposits and running in 2008 no longer had reason to do so once deposits and money-market funds had been guaranteed. Keeping your money at Citigroup or Bank of America was relatively indistinguishable from a safety standpoint.
That is not the case in Europe. Customers of Spanish banks still have reason to worry about the solvency of their banks - and their country - making it reasonable for them to take their money from Spanish banks and send it to banks in safer countries like Germany. Indeed, the bailout makes it less likely Spain can pay back its debts because the new loan of up to $125 billion was just added to its huge debt pile. Worse, Spanish banks had been the biggest buyers of Spanish debt (a farce of a way to prop up the economy) and that most likely won't continue.
As a result, it could be argued that it would be irresponsible for an individual or company, which has a fiduciary duty to its shareholders, not to move its money out of Spanish banks. Of course, money leaving the banks can become a self-fulfilling vicious cycle that virtually no amount of bank bailouts can plug. (By the way, countries like Spain have their own version of F.D.I.C., but it is all but worthless if you believe the country could collapse under its own debt.)
Ultimately, the only real way to begin to ensure the safety of the banks in Spain - and all of Europe - is to create a euro zone deposit guarantee system so that there would be no reason for a depositor to withdraw money. European leaders are expected to address the idea, along with regional banking regulation and a way to recapitalize ailing euro zone institutions, at a summit meeting at the end of the month. Oddly enough, such a deposit guarantee would probably be pretty cheap. The psychological effect of such a guarantee would most likely ensure the solvency of more banks than the guarantee would ever have to pay out. That was the experience in the United States.
Of course, there's a catch. A euro zone deposit guarantee would require agreement from all the countries that use the euro, which is something that the leaders there seem incapable of reaching because ultimately it would mean tighter integration and, yes, a loss of sovereignty.
And here's another problem with a euro zone deposit guarantee: Unless you believe the euro is going to remain the standard - that countries like Greece or Spain won't be forced out or secede from the currency - even the guarantee might not be enough, unless the guarantee holds for all currencies. For example, if a Spanish bank customer is worried that his euros might one day turn into pesetas - even with a deposit guarantee in place - he may well move his money.
In the meantime, this piecemeal approach is bound to fail. Kicking the can down the road, to use again an overused phrase, at some point will fail - and that's what may have just happened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (94%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%) DealBook Column; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CUMBERLAND ADVISORS (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); SPAIN (97%); GERMANY (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



416 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1523 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Change Your Password

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: rude waiters, why freemiums don't work, start-up financing and Twitter tweets of the week. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: Will the Fed Step In (Again)?
Federal Reserve officials debate another stimulus but the chairman remains mum. The Congressional Budget Office projects that national debt will be double gross domestic product by 2037. Paul Krugman says the government still is not spending enough. Lawrence Summers says that with rates so low the government should be borrowing more but Philipp Bagus says external debts are dangerous: "High public (external) debts and persisting import surpluses are signs of a weak currency. The government may well have to default or to print its way out of its problems. Low public (external) debts and persisting export surpluses, in contrast, strengthen a currency." The rating bureau Fitch says that the United States risks a 2013 rating downgrade without a credible deficit plan.
Economy: The Oracle Speaks
Angad Guglani says inflation is the next crisis. The Oracle of Omaha says the odds of a recession are very low. SurePayroll sees a dip in small-business hiring as employers wait and watch. Many small businesses aren't hiring because of the economy, budget cuts and a lack of qualified applicants. But Citibank says small businesses continue to report improving conditions, and a Gallup poll says economic confidence was up in May. KPMG reports that manufacturing executives are optimistic about the next two years, and Alan Beaulieu says healthy activity in consumer durable goods is providing positive economic signals. General Motors plans to slash $26 billion in pensions. FedEx retires 24 jets to cut costs in the wake of falling shipments.
The Data: Gains and Declines 
The Fed says the economy grew at a moderate pace in April and May. Factory orders fell in April but economic activity in the nonmanufacturing sector grew in May for the 29th consecutive month. Transportation indexes show gains. The Conference Board's Employment Trends Index (pdf) rises. Nonfarm productivity (pdf) declined at a 0.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter.
Management: Learning From Rude Waiters
This chart shows that education matters. This infographic shows how much obesity costs employers. This slide show explains how to build a high performance culture. Kevin Leahy weighs the pros and cons of buying a franchise. Russell Emmerson says the success of any business relies on three relationships. Steve Noel says there is a lot to be learned from rude French waiters. Nellie Akalp lists seven "rockin' resources" to help female owners, some of whom say their sales remain lower than when the recession started. Shashi Bellamkonda shares small-business thoughts while having a pedicure, including: "a sign outside the window that says 'pedicure for men available' may make shy men come in confidently." Karl Stark and Bill Stewart say there are three ways to visualize profits. Andy Sernovitz explains the difference between good and awesome. Rick Wartzman says businesses should stop whining. Eric T. Wagner says leadership acumen is one of the seven traits of highly successful entrepreneurs.
Marketing: Freemiums Don't Work
Delivering an exceptional customer experience can be a challenge for most organizations. Most customer service posts on Twitter go unanswered. Drew McLellan lists some of the most common mistakes that set off e-mail spam filters. Mark Luterman laments the lost art of face-to-face networking: "Most small-business owners I speak with find it intimidating, and when they do attend an event, they spend most of the time speaking with other business owners or people they already know. This is a major mistake." Facebook introduces its first mobile-only ad product, and Andrea Vahl lists these four ways to use Facebook for your business. Dmitri Leonov says the freemium model doesn't work: "by charging nothing for your service, you're actually anchoring that value in your customer's mind, making it harder to raise the price later." Karen E. Klein reports on the latest domain-name gold rush.
Red Tape Update: Certainty in the Tax Code
Chief financial officers say that certainty in the tax code has become even more important than reducing corporate tax rates. Ami Kassar explains why small-business lending is a confusing mess. The top 400 taxpayers paid almost as much in federal income taxes in 2009 as the bottom 50 percent. Small-business owners say Congress and the administration don't understand them. Mitt Romney promises a small-business policy role. Health and Human Services has missed nearly half of its legal deadlines while putting the health care law into effect.
Start-Ups: Make Sure You Have Friends
A founder of Y Combinator warns start-ups that financing will be tougher to get. According to Adam Toren, one of the many things to consider before quitting your day job is your support system: "Working for yourself can be lonely and challenging. Make sure you have friends and mentors to draw on for support and advice." A design firm reports that start-ups and other small businesses expect design to become increasingly important to their success. Keep an eye on these next-generation nuclear start-ups.
Around the Country: $25,000 Makeovers
Hotel rates for business travelers near pre-recession levels but you can still get a good seat on Southwest Airlines. Five entrepreneurs win $25,000 makeovers. New Hampshire introduces a $500,000 technology start-up competition. Nearly two years after Maryland's first casino opened, the state has yet to dole out any of the $3.6 million in slots revenue that has accumulated for small businesses. Keota, in southeast Iowa, is America's "most extroverted" city. A resource recovery company in San Francisco uses analytics to help the city reach its goal of zero waste by 2020. Olive oil franchisers are tapping foodies for growth.
Around the World: Worsening Fast
Queen Elizabeth and some British entrepreneurs celebrate 60th anniversaries. Thanks to Iraq, oil output soars. Japanese stocks hit a 28-year low. The French economy is "worsening fast." German industrial production fell in April. Service activity in France, Italy and Spain continues to decrease sharply. China cuts interest rates and commodity prices drop on economic woes in Europe, China and the United States. But here's a special report on the opportunities in Africa. Ian Bremmer asks which countries will rise to the top in a leaderless world.
Technology: Change Your Password
David Murphy says these consumer software products are good for business. Mike McKay reminds us that tech is an investment, not an expense. Tasha Cunningham suggests low-cost online tools to help businesses. These are the most popular app categories. Intel aims to introduce a sub-$200 smartphone later this year. A new type of flexible, ultra-thin glass has been unveiled, and here are seven other futuristic materials. Google acquires a messaging service, continues its hunt for the elusive small- and midsize business market and lists 15 children who are way smarter than mine. Here's how women are changing the tech world. LinkedIn is the No. 1 social site for finding a new employee - and this is a good time to change your password (here's how to see if your password is compromised?) Is your password this sad? An acoustics system helps control the atmosphere in bars and restaurants. Some small-business owners are already planning to upgrade to Windows 8. Leslie Horn says there's never been a worse time to buy a laptop.
Tweets of the Week
@borowitzReport: 1969: USA Sends Man to Moon. 2012: USA Sends Space Shuttle To Manhattan.
@CEB_ECSB: 45% of boomers who started a business in the last 3 years were previously employed by a large corporation.
@petershankman: Unless the place you're checking into has celebs, free drinks, or is on fire, Twitter doesn't need to know about it.
The Week's Bests
Mark Lengnick-Hall says business people should emulate the San Antonio Spurs: "The Spurs frequently bench their starters, creating opportunities for other players to develop their skills and learn the system. Businesses can do this too. Rotate employees into new job assignments. Create temporary assignments to build particular skills. Use naturally occurring absences (e.g., illnesses and vacations) by key employees as opportunities for developing other employees."
Mary Schmidt says it's hard to make something simple: "For example, I'm in the last throes of putting together the cells for my upcoming social media workshop. Very few words. Lots of graphics. Simple ... . Lots of research, analysis and thinking went into getting to that look. With more work on the soundtrack that goes with the images. So, I get than a wee bit irked with the gazillion social media experts who promote that social media is free, easy, simple ... quick (in only 60 minutes a day!) ... "
This Week's Question: Have you changed your LinkedIn password? (I did!)
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: Blame the S.B.A.
        
This Week in Small Business: It's Small Business Week!
        
This Week in Small Business: Twenty-Five Signs
        
This Week in Small Business: Richard Branson's Head
        
This Week in Small Business: Where Is the Recovery?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); RECESSION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); STATISTICS (76%); DURABLE GOODS (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); TRENDS (74%); FRANCHISING (73%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); OBESITY (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); LABOR SHORTAGES (66%); STARTUPS (60%) economy; Small Business; Dashboard

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



417 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Gay Parents and the Marriage Debate

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: A new study compares same-sex parenting to two-parent biological families. 

 BODY:
Slate is out with two pieces today on an attention-getting new study that looks at adult outcomes for children raised by parents in same-sex relationships - one by the study's author, the University of Texas sociologist Mark Regnerus (who co-authored the excellent survey "Premarital Sex in America"), and a response by Will Saletan that tries to tease out some of the study's implications for the gay marriage debate. The background to the study is the striking fact that even as traditional marriage has declined in the United States - marriage rates tumbling, out-of-wedlock childbirth climbing, and cohabitation becoming as respectable as wedlock - the evidence has mounted for the institution's importance to the well-being of children. A happy childhood is possible in many different environments, of course. But a growing body of research indicates that no other parental arrangement, from single motherhood to cohabitation to shared custody, affords as many social, economic and emotional advantages as being raised by two biological parents joined in a lifelong commitment. (Isabel Sawhill from the Brookings Institution and Kay Hymowitzfrom the Manhattan Institute have both had good recent pieces elaborating on some of these themes.)
As the cause of same-sex marriage has advanced, however, a number of studies have suggested that gay parenting may be an exception to this rule, and that the outcomes of children raised by homosexual couples may be identical to children raised by married biological parents. Identical, or even better: One high-profile recent study marshaled evidence that children of lesbian households, in particular, may have advantages over the children of straight couples.
Many of these studies, though, compared relatively small and self-selected samples of gay couples to a larger range of heterosexuals. Many relied on the parents' own assessments of their children's well-being; few followed the children into adulthood. (Another just-published paper surveys some of the limits of the prior research.) This is where Regnerus's study comes in: It's more comprehensive than many of its predecessors, drawing on a large survey of Americans between the ages of 18-39 and comparing young adults who reported having a parent in a same-sex relationship to young adults who grew up in other family structures (married, single-parent, step-parents, etc.).
For this population, Regnerus's findings basically confirm the two-parent biological family's advantages. Across a range of variables, from mental health to material prosperity, intact heterosexual households showed different and generally better long-term outcomes for children than other family structures - gay parents included. (These differences were actually larger with lesbian mothers than with gay fathers, though this may reflect the fact that children with dads in gay relationships were less likely to be living with them.) The same patterns held, too, when the study controlled for particular challenges facing children from same-sex households, like whether they faced bullying and lived in a more conservative part of the country. Children do not "need a married mother and father to turn out well as adults," Regnerus cautions. But neither does there appear to be a gay and lesbian exception to the general pattern that "children appear most apt to succeed well as adults when they spend their entire childhood with their married mother and father."
Or at least, there wasn't such an exception in the recent past. Because it focuses on adult outcomes, Regnerus's study is necessarily a look backward. No matter where they lived or how they were treated by their peers, many of his subjects came of age when homosexuality was still marginalized and despised and gay marriage barely on the radar screen. The majority were born to male-female couples in which one partner later came out as gay (adding an extra layer of complexity and heartbreak), rather than being planned via adoption, sperm donation or in vitro fertilization. Almost none were raised in a single same-sex household for their entire childhood. Today the models of gay parenting have presumably shifted, the stability of gay households has presumably increased, and the outcomes for children may be shifting as well.
For the purposes of the gay marriage debate, then, any past disadvantages associated with being raised in same-sex households could easily be cited as evidence for why gay couples need full marriage rights now - the better to guarantee their children, existing or potential, the stability and continuity the institution provides. If a similar study a generation hence shows significant convergence between children raised in married same-sex households and children in intact biological families, it would vindicate one part of the case for same-sex marriage.
This is basically the argument that Saletan makes in his remarks:
What the study shows, then, is that kids from broken homes headed by gay people develop the same problems as kids from broken homes headed by straight people. But that finding isn't meaningless. It tells us something important: We need fewer broken homes among gays, just as we do among straights. We need to study Regnerus' sample and fix the mistakes we made 20 or 40 years ago. No more sham heterosexual marriages. No more post-parenthood self-discoveries. No more deceptions. No more affairs. And no more polarization between homosexuality and marriage. Gay parents owe their kids the same stability as straight parents. That means less talk about marriage as a right, and more about marriage as an expectation.
To the extent that Regnerus's findings make a case for skepticism about gay marriage, on the other hand, it's mostly a case for federalism and patience. Same-sex marriage is a social experiment, and like most experiments it will take time to understand its consequences. We don't know how relationship norms and expectations will evolve in the gay community - where the ongoing Dan Savage-style debates about monogamy and fidelity will lead, for instance, or how closely same-sex marriage will be associated with childrearing. We don't know how plausible Saletan's vision of wedlock and parenting running on parallel tracks for gays and straights really is. And the near-universal liberal optimism on the subject notwithstanding, we don't really know how straight culture will be influenced on the long run by the final, formal severing of marriage from procreation. If gay marriage gains ground on its current trajectory - state by state, steadily but still somewhat gradually, driven mostly by generational change - then there will be time to watch these trends and debate their implications. But if the Supreme Court (that is, Anthony Kennedy) simple nationalizes gay marriage, there will be no room for debate and no chance for any reconsiderations.
If gay marriage is simply a basic natural right, of course - the formal legal expression of our right to love as we wish - it shouldn't be up for reconsideration under any circumstances. This is a widespread view of wedlock, and it may already be the dominant one. But Regnerus's study is a reminder of why marriage has traditionally been regarded as something other than just a celebration of love and a signifier of civic equality, and why the rationale for the institution has involved a child's rights to his or her biological parents as well as in two lovers' rights to one another. Marriage's purpose, in this sense, has not been just to validate the consenting adults who enter into it, but to provide support and recognition for a particular way of bearing and rearing children - one whose distinctive advantages remain apparent, even as that recognition declines and disappears.

        
Marriage in Thick and Thin
        
The Success of the Gay Marriage Movement
        
Straussian Social Conservatives?
        
Marriage, Self-Interest and Happiness
        
Why We Can't All Get Along

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAY PARENTING (93%); MARRIAGE (93%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); PARENTING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (78%); MARRIAGES & MARRIAGE RATES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); WRITERS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (67%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Culture Wars; gay marriage; Sex and Marriage; social conservatism

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



418 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: America's Hidden Austerity Program

BYLINE: BEN POLAK and PETER K. SCHOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Why is the recovery from the most recent recession different? Local government employment has fallen by 3 percent from its peak, and is still falling, two economists note. 

 BODY:
Why is the recovery from this recession different from recoveries from past recessions? In the previous two recessions, it took 32 months for nonfarm employment to reattain its June 1990 peak, and 48 months for it to reattain its January 2001 peak. Assuming the economy keeps adding nonfarm employment at the current rate, it will have taken 88 months to reattain its January 2008 peak. The explanation most often heard is that "financial crises are different": after a debt crisis, shaken consumers are reluctant to spend and shaken firms are reluctant to hire, slowing private-sector job growth even after the recession has bottomed out. 
 There is some truth in this, but it is not the whole story. In fact, while the latest recession was particularly deep, the recovery in private-sector employment, once it finally started, has not been particularly slow by recent historical standards. In the 27 months since the start of the current employment recovery, the private sector has added 4.3 million jobs, fewer than the 5.0 million it added in the 27 months after February 1992 but not many fewer than the 4.5 million it added in the equivalent period after August 2003. 
But there is something historically different about this recession and its aftermath: in the past, local government employment has been almost recession-proof. This time it's not. Going back as long as the data have been collected (1955), with the one exception of the 1981 recession, local government employment continued to grow almost every month regardless of what the economy threw at it. But since the latest recession began, local government employment has fallen by 3 percent, and is still falling. In the equivalent period following the 1990 and 2001 recessions, local government employment grew 7.7 and 5.2 percent. Even following the 1981 recession, by this stage local government employment was up by 1.4 percent. 
Who is losing these local government jobs? In 1981 it was mostly teachers. Now, the losses are shared by teachers and other local government workers alike.
State government is much less important than local because it is a much smaller share of total nonfarm employment: 4 percent versus 10 percent. Nevertheless, a similar story can be told there. This far into each recession since 1955, state government employment had grown. Since the start of the latest recession, state government employment is still down 1.2 percent. 
Without this hidden austerity program, the economy would look very different. If state and local governments had followed the pattern of the previous two recessions, they would have added 1.4 million to 1.9 million jobs and overall unemployment would be 7.0 to 7.3 percent instead of 8.2 percent. 
 Why is this happening? One possibility is that we are witnessing a secular change in state and local politics, with voters no longer willing to pay for an ever-larger work force. An alternative explanation is that even though many state and local governments are constrained not to run deficits, they can muddle through a standard recession without cutting jobs. But when hit by a huge recession like that of 1981 or the latest one, the usual mix of creative accounting and shifting in capital expenditures cannot absorb the shock, and jobs have to go.
It has become commonplace to contrast the American and European responses to the Great Recession, with stimulus in the former and austerity in the latter. European austerity has been at the level of member states and local governments - there is no meaningful federal government of Europe to provide either stimulus or austerity. But the United States has also seen unprecedented austerity at the level of state and local governments, and this austerity has slowed the job recovery.

        
The Asymmetric Recovery
        
Marital Status and the Recession
        
Mean-Spirited, Bad Economics
        
With Unemployment Insurance, Is 99 Weeks the Magic Number?
        
The Recession in Pink and Blue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (94%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%) Great Recession; local governments; recession; state and local government; state governments; Unemployment; Government Employees; Local Government; Recession and Depression; Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



419 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Where Wealth Declined Most (and an Income Riddle)

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The Fed's latest figures on wealth show the middle class sustaining the biggest decline since the housing boom ended. And they show an odd finding on a group whose income rose. 

 BODY:
The bleak portrait of the financial health of American families that the Federal Reserve published Monday shows that the impact of the economic crisis has fallen with disproportionate weight on the middle class.
The middle 60 percent of American families had a larger decline in wealth and income on a percentage basis than the very wealthy or the very poor.
The explanation for the disproportionate loss of wealth is relatively straightforward. As I wrote in my article about the new data, the middle class puts wealth in housing, and the median amount of home equity dropped to $75,000 in 2010 from $110,000 in 2007. While other investments have recovered much of the value lost in the depths of the crisis, housing prices have hardly budged.
Why there should be a disproportionate loss of income is harder to explain. In part, more affluent families tend to derive a larger share of income from other kinds of investments, which have rebounded more strongly in value.
But that's hardly a complete explanation, and in particular it tells us nothing about the relative strength of reported income for the least affluent families. In the paper introducing the new data, Fed economists note: "Decreases in incomes were much larger for the higher education groups, and mean income actually rose for the no-high-school-diploma group," a finding that seems at odds with the vast majority of recent research on the economic importance of education.
I'm afraid this isn't the kind of post where I now proceed to explicate the puzzle. Maybe we'll have one of those later today, after the lights come on. In the meantime, please share your thoughts and possible explanations. 

        
How the Fed Presidents' Assets Stack Up
        
Who Counts as 'Rich'? Continued
        
The Lasting Financial Impact of a Layoff
        
Behind a Surprising Income Trend
        
Still Playing Catch-Up, Across the Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); RECESSION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); TRENDS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%) Federal Reserve; Great Recession; Income; wealth; Economic Conditions and Trends; Recession and Depression; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



420 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Pensions Under Stress, Worldwide

BYLINE: MOTOKO RICH


HIGHLIGHT: Because of the financial crisis and an aging population, many countries have changed the terms of government pension systems, possibly ending a "golden age," a report says. 

 BODY:
In Sunday's newspaper, I wrote about the risks for older workers who have been forced to claim Social Security early because of job loss.
Even as more workers are delaying retirement to extend their earning years and build up their savings, those who were laid off during the recession and afterward have had a particularly difficult time finding new work. To get by, many have started collecting Social Security retirement benefits at 62, four years before the current full retirement age. As a result, their monthly payments are 20 to 30 percent lower than they would have been had they waited until they were 66 to start drawing benefits.
A new report from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development underscores why it is so important for people to work longer, not just for their own financial well-being but for the fiscal health of their countries.
Because of the financial crisis, as well as the aging of the populations in many of the 34 O.E.C.D. countries, public pension funds are under intense stress. Many countries have changed the terms of their pension systems, including increasing the full retirement age, cutting benefits and giving people more incentives to work longer. Half of the O.E.C.D. countries, for example, will raise the full retirement age to 67 in the medium term, or have already done so.

From September 2007 to February 2012, the report notes, most of the O.E.C.D. countries carried out changes in their pension systems, although the United States, along with Iceland, the Netherlands, New Zealand and Slovenia, introduced only minor changes. Luxembourg was the only country to make no changes in its pension system.
In some countries, however, the changes have already been rolled back under public pressure. The most recent example is France, where the newly elected president, Franois Hollande, announced that he was reversing a change by his predecessor, Nicolas Sarkozy, by lowering the legal retirement age to 60 from 62 for a small class or workers.
To cover the likely shortfall of public pensions, 13 countries now have mandatory private pension systems, in which workers are required to contribute a portion of their income to privately managed pension funds to supplement their public benefits.
Other countries have instituted systems where workers are automatically enrolled in retirement plans like 401(k)'s unless they explicitly ask not to. The Obama administration encourages automatic enrollment in retirement plans and has proposed that any employer with 10 or more workers should enroll workers in one variety of Individual Retirement Account, known as a Roth I.R.A., if the employer does not itself have a retirement plan.
Private pensions are under the same economic pressures as public funds. From 2007 to 2011, inflation-adjusted rates of return in the O.E.C.D. countries averaged negative 1.6 percent on private pension funds. Some of these investment losses have hit the retirees of today, but the report noted that because of coming changes, "today's retirees are living through what might prove to have been a golden age for pensions and pensioners."

        
What We're Reading: Restaurant Mapping
        
And You Thought Americans Were Angry About Their Retirement Security
        
Pensions, 1980 vs. Today
        
Will You Have Enough Money to Retire 'Comfortably'?
        
How Older Workers Weather Layoffs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (94%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (93%); AGING (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); RETIREMENT AGE (90%); OLDER WORKERS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AGING TRENDS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); US 401K PLANS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); RECESSION (77%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (69%) pensions; Retirement; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (91%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

PERSON: FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ICELAND (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); LUXEMBOURG (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



421 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: On Not Reaching Carbon Goals

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: The technology needed to arrest global warming is there, but the world is not harnessing it, the International Energy Agency says. 

 BODY:
 Reducing carbon dioxide emissions by enough to prevent global temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit) is "still within reach,'' the International Energy Agency reported on Monday, but at the moment, trends in energy use are running in the wrong direction.
 In the latest version of Energy Technology Perspectives, a report issued biennially by the agency, it said the technology to achieve that goal is available. But as Maria van der Hoeven, executive director of the agency, put it, "we're not using it.'' Since the agency published its first Energy Technology Perspectives in 2006, the evidence of climate change has only grown stronger, she said, but "if anything, it has fallen further down the political agenda.'' 
Coal consumption, for example, is still rising around the world, and that is "the single most problematic trend in the relationship between energy and climate change," the report said. Building more efficient coal-fired plants operating at higher temperatures could cut emissions by 30 percent per kilowatt-hour. But to reduce global carbon dioxide emissions by 2050, coal use would have to fall by 45 percent from 2009 levels, the report said. 
Natural gas is not the answer to this problem, the report points out. Gas-fired plants may emit only half as much carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour generated than coal-fired plants, but by 2025 the amount emitted will be higher than the average for the entire electric system, it said. 
The United States and some other countries are feverishly building new natural-gas-fired generating equipment, the report adds, but the level of emissions from gas raises "questions around the long-term viability of some gas infrastructure investment if climate objectives are to be met." Such plants may eventually have to install carbon capture equipment if the world is to meet carbon goals, the report said.

The International Energy Agency, comprising 28 countries, is a branch of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Energy, especially oil, is a major focus of the group.
The agency's analysts say that progress is being made in lowering the costs of two carbon-free energy sources, photovoltaic cells and onshore wind generators, but it called the lack of progress in offshore wind and in solar thermal power, in which the sun's energy is captured as heat, "particularly worrisome." It put carbon capture and storage in the same troubling category, along with the slow adoption of energy efficiency. 
The report recommended policies that would build "confidence in the long-term potential of clean energy technologies." Those technologies cost more, it said, but will provide returns that more than pay for the additional investment, partly by lowering fuel bills. The level of added investment between now and 2050 comes to $36 trillion, or about $130 a person a year, the agency calculated, but it would result in savings of $5 trillion from lower fuel bills. Whether the agency has correctly projected price for fossil fuels for the next four decades is not so clear.
Bo Diczfalusy, the agency's director of sustainable policy and technology, acknowledged that all of the policy recommendations in this year's report could just as easily have been made years ago. But he said the progress of solar photovoltaic power, which he said had posted a 42 percent annual growth rate for 10 years, and wind power, which he said grew at a 27 percent annual rate, showed that government policy could help nurture the technologies that would be needed to solve the problem. 
One of the technologies described as lagging behind was nuclear power, which could play a role in eliminating coal and - if electric cars were to become popular -- oil as well. The report said global electricity use would double by 2050 and that nuclear power should meet 20 percent of demand. But at the moment, the future of nuclear power in Japan and Germany is cloudy because of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident of March 2011, it noted.
"Let's be honest," Ms. van der Hoeven said. "If governments want to phase out nuclear power, they have to replace it with something else. If they're going to replace it with renewables, that's fine. If they are replacing it with coal, that's not fine."

        
Whose Subsidies Trump Whose?
        
Q. and A.: Hastening the Energy Revolution
        
Natural Gas Is on a Roll, Executive Declares
        
For Earth Day, a Bit of Perspective
        
European Commission Disputes Opinion on Biofuels Emissions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); GLOBAL WARMING (92%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); TRENDS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (89%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); WIND POWER PLANTS (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%) climate change; Coal; Emissions Reduction; fossil fuels; International Energy Agency; Natural Gas; nuclear power; renewable energy; Air Pollution; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Carbon Capture and Sequestration; Carbon Dioxide; Electric Light and Power; Fuel Efficiency; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Nuclear Energy; Solar Energy; Wind; Wind Power; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; Politics and Policy; Research/Studies; Science

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (94%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (84%) International Energy Agency; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



422 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Soot Rules Expected This Week

BYLINE: MIREYA NAVARRO


HIGHLIGHT: Under an agreement with 11 states that sued over delays, the agency is expected to announce proposed rules on fine particulates on Thursday. 

 BODY:
The federal Environmental Protection Agency plans to propose new air quality standards for soot by Thursday and issue final standards by Dec. 14 under a tentative agreement with 11 states that sued the agency earlier this year.
The states, including New York and California, blame fine particulate matter from diesel tricks, buses, power plants and other sources for respiratory illnesses and other public health problems. After the E.P.A. postponed tightening soot standards last fall, deferring a periodic update mandated by the Clean Air Act, the states sued in February in United States District Court in Manhattan.
 Judge Robert L. Wilkins issued an order on June 2 giving the agency until June 7 to propose new rules but did not impose a deadline for finalizing the standards. The parties later agreed in principle to extend the deadline until Thursday and to have the agency issue final standards six months later, according to the office of Eric Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general.

The E.P.A. had initially sought to delay the rule-making until next year. In court papers, officials cited "the abundance of new scientific evidence concerning the potential health and welfare effects of P.M. pollution" that they had to address as one reason for the delay.
The Obama administration has also faced intense opposition to stricter air quality regulations from Congressional Republicans and industry critics who argue that tightening the rules would hurt economic growth. The E.P.A. last revised the standards in 2006.

        
States Sue E.P.A. Over Delayed Soot Rules
        
E.P.A. Limits Coal-Plant Emissions
        
For California, a Rebuff on 2 Pollution Plans
        
Imagine a Pollution Monitor That Checks Your Vital Signs
        
On Our Radar: BP to Tame Refinery Flares

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (95%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); AIR QUALITY (91%); PARTICULATE MATTER (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY MONITORING (89%); EMISSIONS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); POLLUTION MONITORING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (57%) Air Pollution; Environmental Protection Agency; fine particulates; New York State; soot; Obama, Barack; Schneiderman, Eric T; Clean Air Act; Suits and Litigation; Politics and Policy

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%) Obama, Barack; Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



423 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 3245 words

HEADLINE: Updates From Apple's Conference Keynote

BYLINE: BRIAN X. CHEN


HIGHLIGHT: In a keynote presentation on Monday at its Worldwide Developers Conference, Apple announced new Mac notebooks and updates to its Mac and mobile operating systems, including a new mobile map service that does not rely on Google for the underlying data. 

 BODY:
 Apple made a keynote presentation on Monday at its Worldwide Developers Conference, held at the Moscone Center in San Francisco. It announced new Mac notebooks and updates to its Mac and mobile operating systems, including a new mobile map service that does not rely on Google for the underlying data. Our updates from the event are below.
2:51 P.M. | Tim Cook Wraps Up
Tim Cook is back on stage summarizing the announcements of the event: new Macs, Mountain Lion, iOS 6. "Only Apple could make such amazing hardware, software and services," he says. "We are so proud of these products, as they're perfect examples of what Apple does best. Ultimately it's why people choose to come work at Apple and work with Apple." Mr. Cook is more confident as a speaker now than he was at the iPhone 4S event.
He wishes everybody a fantastic week. And that's a wrap. Thanks for reading.
2:41 P.M. | A New Maps App for iOS
On to the new Maps app. It looks clearer and more saturated. These are obviously not Google's maps. There is local search for more than 100 million business listings, Mr. Forstall says, so you can search for nearby things within the Maps app. There's a traffic view to see where traffic is - dotted red lines. There's anonymous crowd-sourced real-time tracking of iOS users to generate the traffic data. And built-in turn-by-turn navigation.
Tap a button and you'll see the map in a 3-D view. (Android has had this for ages.) There's also Siri integration, so you can ask Siri to show you the way. And there's a feature called FlyOver. Apple has been building a 3-D photographic model of some places using planes. 
Mr. Forstall is giving a demonstration of the maps. They're vector-based, and you can rotate the map. It looks a lot faster than the Google maps. There is very smooth motion as you tap around. You can zoom in and show the buildings in 3-D. Now he's showing FlyOver. It shows a 3-D view of the Transamerica pyramid in San Francisco. It just looks like a tiny 3-D model of an entire city. It reminds me of Google Earth.
A demonstration of turn-by-turn directions. Choosing Coit Tower and tapping on the QuickRoute option gives you some choices. Siri tells you where to turn.
What's funny is the Siri voice sounds exactly like the TomTom GPS app's default voice, so this doesn't look new at all.
I wonder how much battery the iPhone wastes to show the maps in 3-D.
In wrapping up iOS 6, Mr. Forstall is highlighting the features for China again. There is a lot of emphasis on China in this event. It shows how important that market is to Apple now.
A beta version of iOS 6 will be available to developers today. It will ship this fall and will support the iPhone 3GS and later, along with the second and third iPad. Not the first iPad! Isn't the first iPad just as fast as the 3GS?
Nick Bilton adds: The new maps feature is stunning. In a very Apple-integrated way, you can tell that it has been designed to work directly with Siri, and the user interface has been created specifically for multitouch, allowing you to sweep and zoom through different views on the iPad and iPhone.
2:39 P.M. | Apps for Children
Mr. Forstall is talking about apps specifically for children with autism. There are some guided access features so the child can't accidentally tap certain areas. There's a single-app mode so teachers can lock an iPad into a test so students can't go look up the answers in Safari. (This could also be good for parents who don't want their children buying stupid games with their credit cards.)
2:37 P.M. | Passbook App Stores Tickets
Passbook, a new iOS app, is a way to get all of your passes, like boarding passes and movie tickets, in one place. Apple has created templates for developers to create passes. If you set a reminder about a ticket, you can swipe from the lock screen and it opens the ticket automatically.
Mr. Forstall is showing a Starbucks card, a Target gift card, an Apple Store ticket, an Amtrak boarding pass and a United Airways ticket. Each of these has a QR code with your ticket info. If you go near your local Starbucks, the Passbook will show a notification and you can slide to unlock and display the code. Is Apple trying to take on Square?
2:27 P.M. | New Features in iOS
Moving on to enhancements to the Phone app. (Phone? What's that?) In iOS 6, there are more options when you get a call: you can reply with a message or set a reminder to call back later. If you hit the "remind me later" button, you can have the phone remind you to call someone back when you leave work, for example. The phone will note when you leave the office using its location function and give you an alert.
There's a switch called "Do Not Disturb." You can toggle it on so you don't hear some alerts. You can also choose not to get phone calls or to allow calls from only certain people.
Next is FaceTime, which now works over cellular networks and not just Wi-Fi. If someone tries to call you on your phone number using FaceTime, you can answer it on iPad or Mac. 
Next is Safari. About two-thirds of all mobile Web traffic comes from Safari or iOS, says Mr. Forstall. They're adding a reading list. You can download and cache a story to read later. You can upload your photos right to a Web site. There are also smart app banners. You can put up a banner on your mobile Web site notifying people about the native app in the App Store.
Next up is Photo Stream, Apple's cloud storage for photos. Now it's adding shared Photo Streams with friends. Choose the photos you would like to share, then choose the friends with whom you would like to share them. Friends will get a push notification, and they can comment on the photos. 
Some enhancements to Mail. If someone sends you an e-mail, you get a notification in the lock screen, just like a text message. There's a V.I.P. mailbox for messages from your favorite people, and a new inbox for flagged messages as well. You can open password-protected documents inside e-mails. 
2:24 P.M. | Facebook Comes to iOS
Next is Facebook integration. Apple has been working with Facebook to weave its service into iOS 6. You don't have to log into Facebook multiple times to use your account in different apps. You can post about things like your favorite apps or iTunes songs on Facebook. (R.I.P., Ping.) And Facebook has been integrated with Siri - you talk to post on Facebook. There is a public A.P.I. so third-party apps can work with Facebook, too.
Your Facebook events will now appear in the Calendar app. (It's about time.)
2:15 P.M. | Here Comes iOS 6, and a Siri Upgrade
Mr. Forstall is announcing iOS 6, the latest version of the operating system for iPhones, iPads and iPod Touches. It has more than 200 new features, he says, starting with significant enhancements to Siri.
Siri has learned about sports. You can ask questions like, "What was the score of the last Giants game?" Siri says: "The Giants were downed by the Rangers yesterday. The final score was 5 to 0." 
You can ask, "What is Buster Posey's batting average?" You can ask, "What are the National League standings?" And Siri knows about basketball. You can ask, "Who is taller, LeBron or Kobe?" "LeBron James appears to be slightly taller."
You can ask, "When is the 49ers' first game of the season?" Siri shows an entire schedule.
You can say, "Find a great place to eat for dinner." There's more info about restaurants now: price, type of restaurant, maps inside the restaurant listings. Apple has teamed up with OpenTable for reservations. Siri takes you to the OpenTable app to make one. 
Siri is also a movie buff. You can ask, "What movies are playing at the Metreon?" Siri displays the showtimes. You can tap to see the trailer. You can also ask questions about directors and actors, like "Show me movies starring Scarlett Johansson."
Siri has also learned how to launch apps. Say "Play Temple Run," and it opens the game. 
There's also a new feature called Eyes Free. Apple is working with car manufacturers to have a button placed in the steering wheel to bring up Siri. A number of auto manufacturers have already committed to it, including General Motors and BMW, Mercedes, Land Rover, Honda and Toyota. 
Siri will speak more languages, including French, Spanish, Italian, German, Korean, Mandarin for Taiwan, and Cantonese. Apple is taking Siri's local search, which has been United States only, around the world. 
Nick Bilton notes: You can tell it's a room full of nerds here. When Apple demoed the new Game Center with a car racing game for the Mac, there were loud cheers from the audience. When Scott Forstall showed off the new iOS 6 and Siri's ability to share sports scores and sports statistics, there was dead silence.
2:09 P.M. | Talking About iOS
Next up is Scott Forstall, who is in charge of iOS. He says 365 million iOS devices have been sold. More than 80 percent of customers are running the latest version, iOS 5. He presents a pie chart showing how most Android users have an older version of that operating system. A jab at Google.
Apple is now sending seven billion push notifications through iOS every day, 1.5 trillion push notifications altogether. There are 140 million iMessage users, with 150 billion messages sent, one billion a day. Twitter integration with iOS has spawned 10 billion tweets. 
Next is Game Center, which has 130 million users and records five billion scores a week. 
Mr. Forstall says 75 percent of iOS users say in surveys that they are "very satisfied," compared to less than 50 percent for the competition, like Android.
2:01 P.M. | Power Nap and AirPlay
Next, a new technology in OS X called Power Nap. It keeps your Mac up to date while it sleeps. It fetches your e-mail and reminder updates, and even fetches your photo stream. It will also back itself up to your Time Capsule and download software updates automatically. It operates silently and will supposedly be power efficient. 
Next is AirPlay. It's the easiest way to get whatever is on your Mac to your TV, Mr. Federighi says. It's an icon in the upper right corner. Select "Apple TV," and what's on your Mac screen will show up on the television. 
Then there's Game Center for Mac. It's the same Game Center account you use on iOS devices. Apple is supporting cross-platform games between Macs and iOS devices. 
It's demo time. Mr. Federighi presses a button and instantly his Mac display is showing on a TV. He opens Game Center. There's a man on stage wearing a racecar driver's outfit and helmet. Mr. Federighi invites him to play CSR Racing on Game Center. They're playing the game over AirPlay on the projector. 
He's wrapping up Mountain Lion. First, he wants to highlight the features Apple is adding in China: improving the input method for Chinese characters, and a new Chinese dictionary. And they're making it easier to set up the Mac for Chinese e-mail. "Get your apps ready for China," Mr. Federighi says.
Mountain Lion will ship in July via the Mac App store, at $19.99. That's $10 cheaper than the previous version. 
1:54 P.M. | More on Mountain Lion
Moving on to Notification Center, which works like the one on the iPhone and iPad. Alerts show up in the upper-right corner. Notifications show up there too.
The next topic: voice dictation on the Mac. Anywhere you can type, you can now talk. You can talk into your Facebook page in the browser if you want. Or even in third-party apps like Microsoft Word.
Next, sharing, which is built into more apps. There's a share button that can be embedded in a tool bar, and you can share to Twitter or Flickr. No sign of Facebook yet...
The new Safari in Mountain Lion has a unified "smart search" field. You type in it and Safari will choose a top hit from bookmarks, browsing history and other data. There's an iCloud Tabs feature, where you can see the tabs you have open on other Macs. There's a new feature called tabbed view. He's demonstrating it in a video. First he's showing faster scrolling and iCloud tabs. The tabbed view displays Web pages similar to the way Cover Flow does in iTunes, which lets you flip through albums. You get a tiled view of all your open pages and can swipe between them.
Now he's showing the share feature. In iPhoto he presses the share button and shares a photo with a friend via Messages. If a friend replies it shows up in the notification box in the upper right.
Nick Bilton notes: Apple's updates to its desktop operating system continue to look more and more like iOS. Integration with iCloud, mobile-style dictation, multitouch and the ability to send Twitter messages directly from the operating system, all continue to blur the line between mobile and desktop.
1:46 P.M. | Updates on the Mac Operating System
Craig Federighi is on stage to talk about Mac OS X. Apple has 66 million Mac users now. Lion was the first Mac OS that was distributed electronically, not on discs. Now 40 percent of OS X users are running Lion. Windows 7 took 27 months to get to that same level, Mr. Federighi says. 
Now moving on to Mountain Lion. It has 200 new features. He's going over eight new features starting with iCloud, which he says has 125 million registered users. Apps have been configured to work with iCloud: Mail, Calendar, etc. With Mountain Lion there will be iCloud in Messages, Reminders, Notes, Pages, Numbers and Keynote. And there's a software developer kit so outside programmers can add iCloud to their apps too. He's showing the new Reminders app, which has location-based reminders. 
A closer look at the Messages app: you can send a message to people's phones, or to other chat services. It can also transmit HD video. The Numbers app shows all of Mr. Federighi's documents in the cloud. Now he's opening a poster in Pages. He makes a change on his iPhone and that change appears automatically in the poster on the Mac. 
1:36 P.M. | The New MacBook Pro's Guts
Now he's talking about the inside of the new MacBook Pro, which is dominated by a battery pack to handle the power needs of the retina display. Quad-core processors up to 2.7 gigahertz, and up to 16 gigabytes of RAM, with Nvidia Kepler graphics. Up to 768 gigabytes of flash storage, up to 7 hours of battery life, 30 days of standby.
It has a new version of the MagSafe adapter, thinner than the current one. A Thunderbolt port as well. A glass multitouch trackpad, a backlit keyboard, Bluetooth 4.0, a FaceTime HD camera, dual microphones, stereo speakers. Now they're showing a video of it.
Jonathan Ive, Apple's chief designer, opens the video. He says the new MacBook Pro is the best notebook Apple has ever built, and that Apple knew flash storage was crucial for speed. "It's built for extreme levels of performance, but at the same time it's remarkably portable," says Mr. Ive. They're introducing a new asymmetrical design for the fan blades to keep the machine quiet and cool. 
Now the video is showing Aperture, the photo-editing software, and Final Cut Pro X. The notebook can handle 1080p high-definition video. 
The new machine begins at $2,200 for the 15.4-inch model with 256 gigabytes of storage and a 2.3-gigahertz quad-core processor. It starts shipping today. 
Nick Bilton notes: As I predicted in late 2010, Apple is slowly eliminating the DVD and CD drives in its laptops. This is likely to help Apple promote iCloud, the company's cloud-based service. 
1:32 P.M. | More on the Retina MacBook Pro
 The new MacBook Pro has the same type of higher-resolution retina display that was first introduced on the iPhone 4, and then the new iPad. This is a trend that you will see with other laptops soon. You can see the company is focusing on photography and video-editing by introducing these screens.
Final Cut Pro 10, the video-editing software, is being updated to handle the retina display as well. Lots of applications will need updating. Apple has been working with some key developers, including Adobe. There's a version of Photoshop that will be "jaw-dropping," Mr. Schiller says. Autodesk too. Diablo 3.
1:24 P.M. | A 'Next Generation' Notebook
But there's one more notebook. A mysterious silhouette is on the big screen. "What would make a next-generation MacBook Pro? You'd want it to have a killer new display," Mr. Schiller says. "You want it to be radically thin and light. And of course you want it to be bold and embracing the newest technologies."
It's a new MacBook Pro, thinner, with a new display. It's thinner than Mr. Schiller's finger - 0.71 inch. He calls it "a true breakthrough in engineering." One-quarter thinner than the previous model, weighing in at 4.46 pounds. Oh, and here's the retina display. 
1:22 P.M. | New MacBook Pros
Now Mr. Schiller is moving on to upgrades for the MacBook Pro. Ivy Bridge processors again, with speeds up to 2.7 gigahertz. Up to 60 percent faster graphics, and also updating the ports to USB 3.
With 1280-by-800 pixel displays for the 13-inch, it doesn't look like we're seeing retina display MacBooks, as was widely rumored. But the new MacBook Pros are shipping today.
1:17 P.M. | New Mac Notebooks
Philip W. Schiller, Apple's marketing chief, is coming on stage to talk about new notebooks. The MacBook Air is a breakthrough, he says, "and everyone is trying to copy it." 
The Air is getting an upgrade with Intel Ivy Bridge processors. These go up to 2.0 gigahertz, dual-core i7. Translation: They are faster.
The Air can now have up to 512 gigabytes of flash storage, which it can access more quickly. "It is faster than any hard drive we can put in a notebook today." They're adding USB 3 ports, too. The FaceTime camera now has 720p resolution. The 11-inch starts at $1,000, the 13-inch starts at $1,200.
1:06 P.M. | An iTunes Update, and Life-Changing Apps
There are now 400 million accounts on the iTunes Store, Mr. Cook says. There are 650,000 apps in the store, 225,000 designed specifically for the iPad. Customers have downloaded 30 billion apps. "We've written checks for over $5 billion for you guys," he tells developers. "It's become an economy in itself."
Now we're going to see a video highlighting apps that have changed people's lives. A blind man walks through the forest using an app that gives him information about his position and tells him when he's approaching certain places. Now we see a teacher in India giving anatomy lessons with the iPad.
Airbnb executives are talking about their app in the video. "We don't think of it as a business; it's more like meeting new friends." 
Now there's an app showing a child with a learning disability, interacting with a game from Toca Boca on the iPad. The video is ending with a montage of people thanking Apple. Group hug.
1:04 P.M. | Tim Cook on Stage
Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, takes the stage and notes that this is Apple's 23rd Worldwide Developers Conference. "It's older than many of us are. It sold out in 1 hour and 43 minutes." There are over a thousand Apple engineers here to help developers. "Apple is closed this week," says Mr. Cook.
1:00 P.M. | Getting Started at the Keynote
Siri is opening the keynote. She says she's warming up the crowd. A Siri joke: How many developers does it take to change a light bulb? None, that's a hardware problem. A GarageBand drumroll plays after each joke. Siri says it's hard for her to be emotional.

        
Apple Aims to Tie the Mac More Tightly to iPad and iPhone
        
Apple Fights App Makers Who Try to Game the System
        
Rounding Up Apple Conference Chatter, From Maps to TV Apps
        
Smule, Early Apple App Star, Finally Tries Android
        
Parents' Fight With Apple Over 'Bait Apps' Moves Forward

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (77%); TABLET COMPUTERS (77%); MODELING & SIMULATION (77%); CROWDSOURCING (64%) app store; apple; Apps; Developers; ios; iPad; iPhone; Mac OS X; Macintosh; Mountain Lion; Operating Systems; Tim Cook; WWDC; WWDC 2012; Computers and the Internet; Apple Incorporated; Google Inc; Apple Incorporated|AAPL|NASDAQ; Google Inc|GOOG|NASDAQ; Devices; Internet; Mobile

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); GOOGLE INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Incorporated; Google Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (85%) Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Apple Incorporated; AAPL; NASDAQ; Google Inc; GOOG; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (85%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



424 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Apax and JMI Equity to Buy Paradigm for $1 Billion

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The acquisition of Paradigm, a software company focused on the oil and natural gas industry, will allow Apax Partners and JMI Equity to take advantage of a push by energy companies to find new resources. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The private equity firms Apax Partners and JMI Equity agreed on Monday to buy Paradigm, a software company focused on the oil and natural gas industry, for $1 billion.
The acquisition will allow the two firms to take advantage of a push by energy companies to find new resources, as demand from emerging economies for both oil and natural gas continues to rise.
Paradigm, which has more than 700 clients across Europe, the Americas and the developing world, provides software that helps energy companies analyze seismic and other drilling data.
As energy companies have continued the search for new energy sources, attention has focused on so-called unconventional fossil fuels, like shale gas, which has attracted billions of dollars of investment in the United States, Asia and Africa.
Paradigm "is well-placed to benefit from strong tailwinds in the coming years as energy companies look to drill in more challenging locations," Ian Jones, a senior Apax partner in London, said in a statement. 
Apax, based in London, and JMI Equity are buying Paradigm from the private equity firm Fox Paine & Company, which acquired Paradigm for about $100 million in 2002.
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Simmons & Company and the law firm Kirkland & Ellis advised Apax on the deal, while Jefferies and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom advised Paradigm.

        
Apax Chief Sees Opportunities in Euro Zone Crisis
        
Renewed Europe Worries Sap Deal-Makers Confidence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); DIVESTITURES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EURO ZONE (71%); MONETARY UNIONS (69%) Apax; Fox Paine; JMI Equity; Paradigm; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Apax Partners; Energy; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (91%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); FOX PAINE & CO LLC (69%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Apax Partners

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (91%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (76%); AFRICA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



425 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 992 words

HEADLINE: Viewing Financial Crimes as Economic Homicide

BYLINE: PETER J. HENNING


HIGHLIGHT: Judges have piled on punishments to reach sentences of 100 years or more in response to the perception that those who engage in financial fraud causing significant investor losses should not be treated any differently than murderers. 

 BODY:
R. Allen Stanford, who was found guilty of operating a multibillion-dollar Ponzi scheme, is likely to receive a sentence later this week that will require him to spend the rest of his life behind bars. If that happens, it will continue a pattern in which white-collar defendants convicted of committing large-scale fraud have received long prison terms, far longer than what has been meted out in the past.
In March, Mr. Stanford, a Texas tycoon, was convicted on 13 counts of fraud and money laundering related to the collapse of Stanford International Bank, based in Antigua. Investors lost billions of dollars in what were billed as high-yield certificates of deposit but turned out to be largely worthless. Thousands of victims throughout the United States and the Caribbean were affected.
In a sentencing recommendation filed in the Federal District Court in Houston, prosecutors asked Judge David Hittner for 230 years in prison, the maximum permitted by federal law for the convictions. Not surprising, Mr. Stanford is seeking a much lower punishment that would effectively result in a sentence of time served since he was jailed after being charged in 2009.
I'm not really going out on a limb by predicting that the actual sentence will be somewhere in between those two recommendations. But how high is the sentence likely to be?
Under the federal sentencing guidelines, the recommended term for the convictions is 360 months to life in prison. The guidelines are driven in large part by the amount of the losses caused by the fraud, which can easily drive the potential punishment to what is doled out to major drug dealers and serial killers. Although the guidelines are only a recommendation, federal judges have to justify any sentence that falls outside the recommended range, and many are reluctant to be too lenient in order to avoid a government appeal.
One reason prosecutors have asked for such a startlingly high amount for Mr. Stanford is that a court can only sentence a defendant to the maximum permitted under the statute. Thus, prosecutors have asked the judge to impose separate sentences for each violation, totaling 230 years in prison.
If Judge Hittner follows the government's recommendation, the sentence would exceed the 150-year sentence imposed on Bernard L. Madoff for perpetrating the greatest Ponzi scheme in history. Such a long sentence could never be completely served, so it would be largely symbolic, intended to reflect the impact of Mr. Stanford's crimes.
While it is unlikely that Judge Hitter will impose the statutory maximum term the government is seeking, it would not be surprising to see a sentence of at least 30 years - and perhaps as much as 100 years. That would fit in the pattern in recent financial fraud cases in which federal prosecutors sought long prison terms and judges have agreed to punishments that put white-collar defendants in jail for the rest of their lives.
Other defendants found guilty of financial frauds have received stiff sentences. Edward Okun, who was convicted of defrauding customers of $126 million through his tax-deferral service, received a 100-year prison term in August 2009 after prosecutors recommended a sentence of 400 years. Thomas J. Petters received a 50-year prison sentence in April 2010 for defrauding investors of approximately $3.7 billion after prosecutors recommended he receive the maximum term of 335 years. Lee B. Farkas was sentenced to 30 years in June 2011 for his role as an executive at the mortgage lender Taylor, Bean & Whitaker after prosecutors urged a sentence of 385 years for a fraud that resulted in the collapse of Colonial Bank.
Mr. Stanford faces two significant hurdles in seeking a shorter sentence. First, he has not exhibited any contrition or remorse that can sway a judge. He has maintained his innocence at trial, and he plans to appeal the convictions.
A second, greater problem is the attitude of many judges after the financial crisis. Many have come to view financial frauds as crimes worthy of the type of sentences that was once reserved for violent offenders. White-collar defendants are no longer given light sentences because they were not viewed as threats to society.
The financial harm inflicted on small investors is the type of evidence that prosecutors often marshal to show a judge that a defendant who has no previous criminal convictions or history of violence should be incarcerated for the rest of his life. At Mr. Madoff's sentencing, many investors testified to the devastating effect of his Ponzi scheme on their lives. It was persuasive evidence in leading to his 150-year sentence.
Similarly, Mr. Stanford's bank had thousands of investors who plowed their life savings into the high-interest C.D.'s.
Prosecutors often speak of the deterrent value that a long sentence will have on other financial executives who will be chastened to avoid defrauding investors and clients. As I discussed last yearin a piece on Mr. Farkas's sentencing, that is a message likely to be lost on other corporate executives because they do not view themselves as engaging in the type of misconduct that can lead to convictions, or life sentences.
Sentencing a white-collar defendant to a substantial prison term is really more about expressing society's outrage at a misconduct that took advantage of investors and destroyed their financial well-being. These types of fraud are akin to economic homicide, and courts are treating them more and more as such.
Whether punishment should be used this way is a much more difficult question to answer. For Mr. Stanford, his sentencing comes at a time when lengthy prison terms for white-collar offenders have become more commonplace as a financial fraud's harm to society is measured in the millions, or billions, of dollars.
US v Stanford Government Sentencing Recommendation June 6 2012

        
Stanford Joins Madoff at North Carolina Prison
        
Mortgage Executive Receives 30-Year Sentence

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PONZI SCHEMES (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); VERDICTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); JUDGES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); PYRAMID SCHEMES (78%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (76%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%) Bernard L. Madoff; Lee B. Farkas; Ponzi Schemes; R. Allen Stanford; Stanford Financial Group; Taylor Bean & Whitaker Mortgage; Stanford, Robert Allen; Courts and the Judiciary; Frauds and Swindling; Ponzi and Pyramid Schemes; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1; White Collar Watch

ORGANIZATION: US SENTENCING COMMISSION (54%) Stanford Financial Group

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (94%); BERNARD MADOFF (58%) Stanford, Robert Allen

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (77%) TEXAS, USA (79%) ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



426 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: Companies Born in Europe, but Based on the Planet

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: European Internet entrepreneurs are hoping their experience in foreign markets will help them compete with better-financed American rivals. 

 BODY:
LONDON - When Alex Ljung, a multilingual entrepreneur, co-founded the audio-sharing Web service SoundCloud in Stockholm in 2007, he knew the company needed an international expansion strategy right away. The company didn't have a big domestic market or access to a large pool of world-class developers.
A few months after the company was started, Mr. Ljung and his business partner, Eric Wahlforss, moved to Berlin to be closer to many of the region's largest markets and tap into the city's booming start-up community. Earlier this year, he started breaking into the American market, securing $50 million of financing from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the Silicon Valley venture capital giant, and other firms.
Mr. Ljung, who was born in London and grew up in Sweden, now splits his time between Germany and the United States.
"It was obvious that our business had to be global from the start," he said. "We're more like citizens of the Internet than citizens of a country."
With Europe's market spread across more than 50 countries and the Continent's economy struggling under the weight of its debt crisis, local start-ups are forced to become global from the outset. As international markets, particularly fast-growing emerging economies, become ever more important to start-ups' growth, European entrepreneurs are hoping their experience in foreign markets will help them compete with more-established and better-financed American rivals.
"An international mind-set is baked into the DNA of Europeans," said Saul Klein, a partner of the Geneva-based venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has backed some well-known European start-ups, including Skype and the Internet radio station Last.fm. "Great entrepreneurs can come from anywhere. Even start-ups from small countries can compete on the global stage."
While Silicon Valley continues to dominate the venture capital industry, other cities like London, Paris and Berlin are attracting large numbers of investors and start-ups in the technology industry and other sectors like financial services and fashion. The east end of London, which has become home to the city's young entrepreneurs, recorded a 40 percent rise in start-ups last year, according to British government statistics.
The young companies in big European capitals are able to draw upon a global, multilingual work force accustomed to moving between different languages and cultures. Well-educated graduates are also more willing to work for fledging businesses, since large companies aren't aggressively hiring in the current economic malaise. Since 2008, Criteo, a French company that helps businesses market to consumers online, has grown from 20 employees to a 500-person staff comprising more than 15 nationalities in its 15 offices around the world.
"We've become a global company," said Jean-Baptiste Rudelle, a co-founder of Criteo, who has moved to the West Coast to run the company's operations in the United States. "We are still a European company, but with an international footprint."
The new generation of European start-ups still faces a tough slog in the region's current economic environment. The volatile capital markets make it hard for new companies to go public, and many large businesses are reluctant to spend their large cash reserves to acquire start-ups.
Venture capitalists also have reduced their investments. Start-ups based in Europe raised a combined 762 million euros, or $958 million, through fund-raising in the first quarter of the year, a 41 percent drop from the same period last year, according to data from Dow Jones VentureSource, which tracks the venture capital industry. Fund-raising for start-ups in the United States fell 18 percent over the same period.
Despite the economic weakness, Kristjan Hiiemaa, the founder of the e-commerce software company Erply, continues to push ahead. Started in Talinn, Estonia, in 2009, the company now has offices in London and New York, and expects to more than double its client base to 100,000 customers by the end of the year. Erply counts a number of Fortune 500 companies, including eBay's PayPal and the cosmetics company Elizabeth Arden, as clients.
"In New York or Chicago, no one cares that we're from Estonia," said Mr. Hiiemaa, who takes chocolates from his home country to help break the ice. "We have an international team and our clients are all around the world."
The ability to win new business in far-flung places is likely to become more important as start-ups focus on growth in emerging markets. Western countries still attract the majority of entrepreneurs' attention. But analysts say the rise of a free-spending middle class in countries like China and Brazil is forcing companies to develop strategies before local competitors, which often mimic the Western start-ups' business ideas, beat them to market.
To compete in these developing economies, start-ups must be willing to quickly alter their businesses in line with the local cultures and languages. After successfully expanding into new markets and navigating the complexities of winning over foreign customers, European start-ups like SoundCloud and Erply think they're well placed to take advantage.
"The appeal of products has become international from the get-go," said Danny Rimer, a Silicon Valley-based partner at Index Ventures, which has invested in both the companies. "Europe's advantage is that companies already know how to adapt to new countries."

        
Drug Giants Back New Venture Capital Fund
        
Index Ventures Raises $700 Million Growth Fund

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); STATISTICS (60%) Criteo; Erply; Index Ventures; SoundCloud; Technology; Venture Capital

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SoundCloud

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWEDEN (93%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



427 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America's Moszkowski to Join a Research Boutique

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Autonomous Research, a London-based boutique research firm, has hired Guy Moszkowski from Bank of America Merrill Lynch as the chief executive of its United States operations. 

 BODY:
Autonomous Research, a London-based boutique research firm, has decided to expand in the United States in a big way -- by hiring one of the top banking analysts around.
The firm announced on Monday that it had hired Guy Moszkowski from Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch as the chief executive of its United States operations. It has also hired Brian Foran from Nomura to lead its coverage of regional banks in the country.
The hirings will reunite Mr. Moszkowski with Stuart Graham, a former colleague from Merrill Lynch who is now Autonomous's chief executive. And it is an effort by the nearly three-year-old firm to take its boutique research model -- Autonomous provides no investment-banking functions, only research and sales and trading for its clients -- to a global scale.
The firm focuses on just 100 clients around the world, largely asset-management firms, and employs about 31 people. 
"There are no conflicts in terms of research," Mr. Graham told DealBook in a telephone interview on Monday. "It's what people like us love, research, focusing on very knowledgeable clients."
He said that the firm approached Mr. Moszkowski and Mr. Foran early this spring, pitching them on the opportunities they would miss out on by remaining at bigger firms. (Mr. Moszkowski previously worked for Citigroup and Sanford C. Bernstein, and as a banker at J.P. Morgan and Bankers Trust. Mr. Foran was previously an analyst at Goldman Sachs and a consultant at Oliver Wyman.)
"Being a part of a bulge-bracket firm, you're part of a big machine," Mr. Graham said. "They'll be building something from the grass-roots."
It's a big step for Mr. Moszkowski, who is one of the more widely followed analysts covering American banks and alternative-asset firms like the Blackstone Group.
Sell-side research remains somewhat under a cloud of mistrust, dating back to the bursting of the dot-com bubble. Bank analysts recently were criticized for lowering their earnings forecasts for Facebook, after having been briefed by the company, without disclosing their moves more publicly. (They were permitted to do so under initial public offering regulations.)
But Mr. Graham said that if a firm could provide quality offerings, it could survive or even thrive as a standalone research shop. The expansion effort was born from prodding by Autonomous's own clients, he said.
"This model works very well if you offer true excellence," he said. "Our experience is if you aspire to be the best and hire top-quality people, then clients are willing to pay for that."
Autonomous hopes to add about 16 employees in the United States, including traders, sales representatives and support staff, by the time the division opens in early December. 

        
Bank of America Hires 3 Power Specialists From Credit Suisse
        
Credit Suisse Hires Veteran Tech Banker From Merrill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); BULGE BRACKET (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); SALES & SELLING (74%) Autonomous Research; Bank of America-Merrill Lynch; Brian Foran; Guy Moszkowski; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (85%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (56%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (85%); BAC (LSE) (85%); 8648 (TSE) (85%); BX (NYSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



428 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Insider Trading Case Focuses on Defendant's Character

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The judge overseeing the trial of Rajat K. Gupta adhered to his restrictions on evidence related to Mr. Gupta's charitable works. 

 BODY:
The federal judge overseeing the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta made it clear from the outset that he would limit evidence related to the defendant's extensive charitable works and humanitarian acts.
"If Mother Teresa were here and charged with bank robbery, the jury would still have to determine whether or not she committed bank robbery," said Judge Jed S. Rakoff, the presiding judge, during a pretrial hearing last month.
Judge Rakoff has followed through on his promise to curb such testimony. On Monday, the defense was restricted in what it could elicit from three character witnesses for Mr. Gupta, who ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Company and played a leadership role in various global health initiatives.
The government has accused Mr. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, with leaking boardroom secrets about those two companies to Raj Rajaratnam, a former hedge fund manager convicted last year of insider trading. The jury trial is now in its fourth and final week in Federal District Court in Manhattan. If found guilty, Mr. Gupta, a 63-year-old resident of Westport, Conn., faces up to 20 years in prison.
Among the witnesses who took the stand on Monday was Suprotik Basu, an executive at the United Nations working on a project to eradicate malaria. After being asked how he met Mr. Gupta, Mr. Basu, 34, began to recall in detail their first encounter, in January 2008.
"I got an urgent call that a businessman wanted to end all childhood deaths from malaria by 2025," Mr. Basu said.
A prosecutor jumped out of his chair and objected to the testimony. Judge Rakoff sustained the objection.
Two other witnesses took the stand, one who had traveled from India, to testify about Mr. Gupta's character: Ashok Alexander, the director of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in India and a former McKinsey colleague, and Anil Sood, a childhood friend and a former executive at the World Bank. Their brief testimonies were an effort to show the jury that Mr. Gupta was a person of high integrity.
On cross-examination, Reed Brodsky, the prosecutor, asked them if they had knowledge of any investments or business dealings that Mr. Gupta had had with Mr. Rajaratnam, who ran the now-defunct Galleon Group hedge fund. They said that they had not.
Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta, used Mr. Basu to walk the jury through Mr. Gupta's busy calendar on Sept. 23, 2008 - a day, prosecutors say, that Mr. Gupta tipped off Mr. Rajaratnam to Berkshire Hathaway's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the depths of the financial crisis.
The calendar showed that Mr. Gupta listened to the Goldman board call for about a half-hour beginning at 3:15 p.m. On that call, he and his fellow directors approved the Berkshire investment. Prosecutors say that Mr. Gupta immediately phoned Mr. Rajaratnam after the call and told him the news, enabling Mr. Rajaratnam to buy Goldman stock before its public announcement later that evening.
Mr. Naftalis highlighted meetings that Mr. Basu had had with Mr. Gupta after the Goldman call, including a conference with Julian Schweitzer, the World Bank's head of health nutrition, and Raymond G. Chambers, the United Nations special envoy for malaria. Mr. Basu then accompanied Mr. Gupta to a dinner honoring the health minister of Ethiopia at Django, the now-closed Midtown Manhattan brasserie.
Had Mr. Gupta brought up either Goldman Sachs or Warren E. Buffett, the head of Berkshire, at those meetings, Mr. Naftalis asked. Mr. Basu said that he hadn't.
Mr. Basu's testimony opened the door for the government to revisit phone records showing at least six telephone calls between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam on Sept. 23, including a 56-second conversation that occurred just moments after the Goldman board call.
Mr. Brodsky asked Mr. Basu if he was present for that call. Mr. Basu said that he wasn't.
Toward the end of Monday's session, Mr. Gupta's oldest daughter, Geetanjali Gupta, took the stand. Nearly every day of the trial, Ms. Gupta and her three sisters have flanked Mr. Gupta's wife in the front row of the spectators' gallery.
Ms. Gupta, 33, told the jury that she had degrees from Harvard College, Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School. She said that she was the mother of 2 1/2-year-old twins and worked for the Harvard Management Company, a firm that oversees the investment of the university's endowment.
Mr. Naftalis began to ask Ms. Gupta about a conversation that she had with her father relating to a fallout he had with Mr. Rajaratnam in 2008. The defense contends that Mr. Gupta had no incentive to tip off Mr. Rajaratnam during that period because he had lost his entire $10 million investment in a Galleon fund.
The prosecution objected to the line of questioning, leading to a private conference between the two sides that ended the day. Ms. Gupta is expected to resume her testimony on Tuesday morning, with the defense resting its case later in the day. Summations are scheduled for Wednesday.
An earlier version of this post misspelled the surname an executive at the United Nations. He is Suprotik Basu, not Vasu.

        
Prosecutors Present E-Mail Evidence in Insider Trading Case
        
Prosecutors Seek to Show Gupta's Close Ties to Rajaratnam

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JUDGES (93%); INSIDER TRADING (91%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANK ROBBERY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MALARIA (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs; Insider Trading; Procter & Gamble; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat Gupta; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



429 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 440 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The Guardian: A very tense interview with Gordon Ramsay (right), a man whose life appears to be more of a complicated mess than we even realized. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Fork in the Road: Robert Sietsema's high points of the weekend's stellar Big Apple Barbecue. Agreed: next year, less pulled pork, more mutton. -- Julia Moskin
Nation's Restaurant News: Tracking all those burgers and fries has resulted in an alarming global economic judgment. A sales slump in the key worldwide markets of the McDonald's Corporation (especially Japan, China and Germany) is raising concern among financial analysts about a global general consumer slowdown, and the president of McDonald's has warned investors that the chain of 33,500 restaurants will face ebbing consumer confidence over the near term, in most of its worldwide markets. -- Glenn Collins
Decanter: Andrew Jefford offers grim details on the source of acidity in wine, plus a discussion with the French soil scientists Claude and Lydia Bourguignon. -- Eric Asimov 
The New York Times Magazine: French women, it turns out, do get fat -- and turn to American diet plans for help. Aidez-moi, Jenny Craig! -- Patrick Farrell 
SF Weekly: Ramen with butter? Why not? -- Jeff Gordinier 
The New York Times: This week, food fanatics in search of the intense and exotic will descend on Aspen, Colo., for the annual Food & Wine Classic -- sponsored by the white and bland: Hellmann's mayonnaise. The company wants to burnish its bona fides as "real food." -- Patrick Farrell
Specialty Food: The run-up to next weekend's Fancy Food Show in Washington (with 2,400 exhibitors from 80 countries) has prompted this decade-by-decade timeline highlighting the recent history of the introduction of "specialty" foods to the United States, from the return of World War II veterans whose expanded palates created a demand for more disparate cuisines, cheeses and spices, to the widespread introduction of Evian (1988), the acai berry (2000) and truffled and wasabi-ed popcorns (2011). -- Glenn Collins 
The Daily Beast: Alice Feiring on a movement toward more restrained wines in California. -- Eric Asimov 
Details: Got corn and tomatoes? Here's how to grill a summer pizza, according to Jim Lahey. ...
Los Angeles Magazine: ... And speaking of summer, just in case you're still not sure how to eat an artichoke, seek out guidance from a Californian. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Palate Press: White wines get all the attention in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, but Talia Baiocchi has a thing for its reds. -- Eric Asimov 
: A little Scotch on that sno-cone? The pre-summer lurch toward alcoholic popsicles and other treats. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); WINE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); PROFIT WARNINGS (74%); CHEESE (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); AGRONOMY (67%); WORLD WAR II (61%); VETERANS (50%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (92%); FRIULI-VENEZIA GIULIA ASSICURAZIONI (50%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (92%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



430 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 291 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Obama Ads Target Hispanics in Swing States

BYLINE: MICHAEL SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Obama supporters court Hispanics by using Mitt Romney's words against him. 

 BODY:
Priorities USA Action, a "super PAC" backing President Obama, is starting a $4 million ad campaign aimed at Hispanic voters in three swing states, thegroup plans to announce Monday morning.
The ads - to run in Colorado, Florida and Nevada throughout the summer - accuse Mr. Romney of not worrying about Hispanic families who are unemployed and workers who don't have much money.
The ads are being produced in cooperation with the Service Employees International Union and use Mr. Romney's own words as evidence of what the groups call his "devastating policies" for Hispanic families.
"You can focus on the very poor, that's not my focus," Mr. Romney says in the ad. The comment is part of an interview Mr. Romney gave during the primary campaign.
Several Hispanic workers react to his comments.
Speaking in Spanish, one says: "What about us? He's not thinking about us." 
Another says: "It's easy for him to say that since he doesn't have the same necessities as us."
And a third says "He is just thinking about those that have made money already."
Priorities USA Action and S.E.I.U. have focused on three states both campaigns have said they are eager to win. And all three states have growing Hispanic populations.
As The Times reported on Sunday, Hispanic voters are more likely than other minorities to stay home on Election Day, prompting concern among Democrats that their influence on the campaign will be muted.
Officials with S.E.I.U said the ads are an attempt to change that dynamic.
"This ad is part of a broader effort to ensure Latino voters know the stakes in this election and who has been on the side of Latino Families and who will continue to stand with them in the coming years," said Brandon Davis, the group's national political director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%) Davis, Brandon; Obama, Barack; Advertising and Marketing; Building Service Employees; Hispanic-Americans; Organized Labor; Political Action Committees; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Priorities USA Action; Service Employees International Union; Florida; Nevada; Ad Watch

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (91%) Democratic Party; Priorities USA Action; Service Employees International Union

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Davis, Brandon; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) Florida; Nevada

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



431 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Positive Ad Push in Massachusetts Senate Race

BYLINE: JESS BIDGOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Both candidates in the fierce Senate race in Massachusetts released positive, family-themed ads this week, with incumbent Senator Scott P. Brown looking to reach out to women voters and his Democratic challenger Elizabeth Warren attempting to move on from weeks of controversy over her heritage. 

 BODY:

BOSTON - Both candidates locked in the fierce Senate race in Massachusetts released positive, family-themed advertisements this week, with incumbent Senator Scott P. Brown looking to reach out to women voters and his Democratic challenger, Elizabeth Warren, attempting to move on from weeks of controversy over her heritage.
Mr. Brown makes breakfast, folds laundry and kisses his wife in two ads that present the incumbent Republican senator as a consummate family man; while Ms. Warren makes the case that Washington's priorities aren't helping working families.
Mr. Brown's 30-second ads, called "Dad" and "Husband," come after sharp criticism last week from women and Democrats, including Ms. Warren, for voting against the Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill meant to curb pay disparities between men and women.
Both spots feature Mr. Brown's wife, Gail Huff, a former television news reporter in Boston, describing her husband over video footage of him doing household chores and stills of Mr. Brown with his two daughters. "I don't know how many husbands would want their wives getting up at 1:30 in the morning to go to work," Ms. Huff says in the ad called "Dad." "Scott did all the morning routine: get the girls up, get them fed, get them dressed, get them off to school."
The second ad, "Husband," focuses on the relationship between Mr. Brown and Ms. Huff. "Scott's always been the one that encouraged me professionally, encouraged me to have my own life, to have my own identity," Ms. Huff says as the ad shows photographs of the couple's wedding and footage of the two talking affectionately. "He's always been very, very sure about the women in his life to have their own lives. He is by far the most understanding of women probably of any man I know."
Both ads are slated to air starting on Tuesday in the Springfield, Boston, Albany and Providence markets, as well as on statewide cable channels. 
Mr. Brown's campaign has made a concerted effort to appeal to women as he runs against one, highlighting endorsements from female lawmakers like Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins, both of Maine, and touting his support for the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act earlier this year. Ms. Huff often appears at events with Mr. Brown, citing the fact that he has lived in an all-female household as evidence of Mr. Brown's support of strong women. 
But some of Mr. Brown's votes, including the one against the Paycheck Fairness Act and his January support of the Blunt amendment, which would have exempted employers with moral objections from including contraception in employees' health plans, have been criticized by Democrats and women's groups, including Ms. Warren on MSNBC last week.
Ms. Warren's new 30-second ad, called "Heart," returns to her familiar campaign theme of middle class families and their struggle to survive in today's economic and political climate. The Democratic challenger is working to move beyond weeks of controversy, stoked by the Brown campaign, that she claimed Native American heritage during her career as a law professor. 
"You work your heart out to buy a house, then watch its value disappear," Ms. Warren says. "You save to put your kids through school, then the debt just about crushes you. Families are getting hammered and Washington's got it all wrong."
"They give out billions to oil companies, the most profitable corporations on earth, then try to slash students loans and Medicare," Ms. Warren continues. "We're supposed to help our kids and honor our parents."
The two campaigns are also sparring over their debate schedule. The Brown campaign has agreed to two television debates and two radio forums; the Warren campaign has not agreed to the radio debates, but has so far committed to three television face-offs. Over the weekend, Ms. Warren told reporters that Mr. Brown's campaign is refusing to directly negotiate over the debates; Colin Reed, a spokesman for Mr. Brown's campaign, told the Boston Herald the campaign is "dealing directly with members of the media who have reached out to us regarding these debates."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EQUAL PAY (89%); WOMEN (89%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%) Brown, Scott P; Warren, Elizabeth; Elections; Political Advertising; Senate; Massachusetts; Ad Watch; Congress

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (94%); ELIZABETH WARREN (92%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%) Brown, Scott P; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



432 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 576 words

HEADLINE: Baucus Says Tax Overhaul That Raises Revenues Is Moving Forward

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Any plan must raise more revenue, contribute to deficit reduction and address the growing nation's growing disparity between rich and poor, Senator Max Baucus said. 

 BODY:
Senator Max Baucus of Montana, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said on Monday that an overhaul of the tax code was moving forward, but that any plan must raise more revenue, help reduce the deficit and address the nation's growing disparity between rich and poor.
"Everyone needs to contribute," Mr. Baucus said during a speech at the Bipartisan Policy Center, a centrist research organization in Washington.
Mr. Baucus has been publicly quiet as less senior senators have jostled for the spotlight over efforts to address the nation's fiscal problems. But he said he had been moving forward on a tax code overhaul that would be a pivotal part of any long-term deficit reduction deal. 
Mr. Baucus participated on Wednesday in a secret dinner on the end-of-year "fiscal cliff" that included Democratic Senate leaders like Charles E. Schumer of New York and Richard J. Durbinof Illinois. He has called a private, members-only meeting of the Senate Finance Committee for later this week.
"I'm making progress on a detailed tax reform proposal that would attract bipartisan support," he said.
That plan is likely to stay under wraps until after the November election, unless broad support for it coalesces earlier. Mr. Baucus does not want partisan lines drawn around the plan during the campaign season.
Democrats, sensing they have enormous leverage going into the end-of-year fiscal showdown, are taking firm stands. In January, the Bush-era cuts to income, capital gains and dividends tax rates are set to expire, and the first wave of automatic defense cuts are scheduled to go into force. A new article in The New Yorker asserts that President Obama, regardless of the election results, is willing to allow all the tax cuts to expire on Jan. 1 if Republicans refuse to compromise on his demands to allow tax cuts for the rich to lapse. Similarly, Mr. Baucus signaled that he would not easily give in to Republican demands to cancel automatic defense cuts, known as "sequestration."
"Sequestration is leverage that should not be given up easily," he told reporters after his speech.
Mr. Baucus said deficit reduction and tax reform could not be separated. Measured against the economy, the nation's debt is the highest since World War II, but tax receipts are the lowest since then.
"We simply don't raise enough revenue," Mr. Baucus said.
Since the 1986 tax code overhaul, the American economy has grown by 88 percent, he said, "but the rising tide has not lifted all boats."
Tax policy can play a role in addressing the wealth disparity, he said. He also hinted at major changes to the corporate income tax code that would lower rates and curtail, if not end, the United States' worldwide corporate income taxation, but would tighten rules that allow American companies to shift income to offshore tax havens. Instead of automatically extending dozens of temporary business tax breaks, he said, Congress this year must pick which breaks should live and which should lapse.
"Tax reform is a once-in-a-generation opportunity," he said. "We can cement America's preeminence."
Introducing Mr. Baucus, former Senator Pete V. Domenici, Republican of New Mexico, lent his support to the finance chairman's approach.
"The tax piece of the debt puzzle is going to be given equal prowess with entitlement reform," said Mr. Domenici, who, along with the Democratic economist Alice Rivlin, has his own broad deficit reduction . "You can't have one without the other."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX REFORM (92%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (85%); ELECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Baucus, Max; Federal Taxes (US); Bipartisan Policy Center Debt Reduction Task Force; Senate Committee on Finance; Congress

ORGANIZATION: Bipartisan Policy Center Debt Reduction Task Force; Senate Committee on Finance

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (94%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%) Baucus, Max

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



433 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 11, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Romney Will Take the Bus on 6-State Campaign Swing

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney plans some extensive retail campaigning in swing states over the next week. 

 BODY:
Since effectively nailing down the Republican nomination for president in mid-April, Mitt Romney has had to balance his time on campaign trail with jaunts to numerous fund-raising events across the country.
But that is to change Friday, when Mr. Romney trades his jet for a bus for five days of barnstorming across six states that has all the appearances of an unofficial kickoff to the general election. 
He will visit small towns and meet with families and business owners, the Romney campaign announced Monday, to highlight the case that President Obama's economic policies fail everyday Americans. The trip comes on the heels of a scorching exchange between the candidates on jobs, with Mr. Romney calling Mr. Obama "out of touch" for saying private-sector job growth was adequate, and Obama's surrogates claiming that Mr. Romney favored laying off firefighters and teachers. 
In announcing the tour, the Romney campaign said: "Too many American families have experienced a lost job, faced foreclosure, or been forced to spend their kids' college savings just to make ends meet. These are not statistics - these are our fellow Americans.''
The itinerary begins at the same New Hampshire farm where Mr. Romney first announced his candidacy and continues through Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa and Michigan. 
Mr. Obama won all of the states in 2008, most comfortably, but the Romney campaign believes they can be battlegrounds this year - a more aggressive map of Republican opportunities than many analysts have drawn.
In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker's survival of a recall election last week has given Republican strategists hope the state can be in play in November. In Michigan, Mr. Romney's native state, polls show a tightening of the race despite Mr. Romney's opposition to Mr. Obama's popular rescue of the auto industry.
From Scamman Farm in Stratham, N.H., Mr. Romney - who has been taking weekends off -- will roll through Saturday and Sunday, making several stops a day, winding up in Michigan on Tuesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); FORECLOSURE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K; Labor and Jobs; Presidential Election of 2012; Michigan; United States; Wisconsin; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SCOTT WALKER (78%) Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Michigan; United States; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



434 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Rally Fizzles After Relief About Bailout Yields to Fears

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER and DAVID JOLLY; David Jolly contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Market enthusiasm over the Spanish bank bailout did not last even a day.
After strong Asian trading seemed to roll on to Europe on Monday morning and then to the United States, by afternoon most European indexes were flat and Wall Street closed the session decidedly down.
The weekend agreement for Europe to provide Spain with up to 100 billion euros to reinforce its shaky banks seemed to confirm for investors that the euro zone's fiscal and financial problems were so entrenched that they eluded a single fix to a single member of the monetary union. 
The rally evaporated faster than market gains posted after other major developments in the crisis over the last two years, like the creation of a euro zone rescue fund and both bailouts for Greece. It did not take investors long to start questioning Spain's overall economic health, how far its real estate values could still fall, and the structure of the bailout itself. Analysts are also looking at who's next, setting sights on Italy.
And the specter of a Greek exit from the euro zone, depending on how elections turn out next weekend, could loom over trading throughout the week.
''There are chronic problems and there are acute problems,'' said Kenneth Wattret, chief euro zone economist in London for BNP Paribas. The deal reached for Spain last weekend ''has dealt with one of the acute problems.''
The chronic issues, including fiscal imbalances and deteriorating economies in the euro zone, remain to be addressed, he said, although he pointed to a growing sense of urgency among European Union officials as at least one reason for optimism.
But investors on Monday were decidedly pessimistic about Spain, where a surge in stocks collapsed; government borrowing costs fell, then spiked; and the cost to insure its debt against default rose.
The yield on Spain's 10-year bonds jumped 0.30 percentage point, to 6.466 percent. And the 10-year bonds of Italy, whose mountainous national debt continues to concern investors, rose 0.26 percentage point to 6.004 percent.
The Madrid benchmark index fell 0.5 percent, giving up early gains that took it more than 5 percent higher. The Euro Stoxx 50 index, a barometer of euro zone blue chips, fell 0.3 percent, while the FTSE 100 index in London was down 0.05 percent.
In the United States, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 1.3 percent, or 16.73 points, at 1,308.93, and the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 1.1 percent at 12,411.23. Financial stocks were the hardest hit of the S.& P.'s sectors, falling about 0.9 percent in late afternoon trading. The Nasdaq fell 1.7 percent to 2,809.73.
And at midday Tuesday in Asian markets, including Tokyo and Hong Kong, stocks were down about 1 percent.
Safer investments gained momentum, in spite of ultralow interest rates. Germany's 10-year bond fell, and the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note yield fell to 1.59 percent, from 1.63 percent late Monday.
The approaching Greek vote led President Obama, whose re-election chances may hinge on getting the European crisis under control, to urge European leaders last week to move quickly on the Spanish bailout. World leaders will meet June 18 and 19 in Mexico for a Group of 20 summit meeting, just a day after the Greek election. In addition, European Union leaders will meet at the end of the month to discuss longer-term measures to address the crisis.
On the flash point of Greece, Mr. Wattret said, ''The uncertainty associated with this election and its consequences is very high.'' He added, ''You would hope there was a contingency plan in place to deal with those consequences.''
As for Spain, investors are concerned that its borrowing costs could continue to rise because the banking bailout adds to its debt burden, and holders of its current debt could take a back seat to the rescue fund that would supply the banking bailout money. The deal could mean the new debt is considered ''senior'' to existing bonds, though the mechanics of the bailout have not yet been determined.
Spain's government is fighting a financial and economic crisis on several fronts. The country has Europe's highest unemployment rate, at 24.3 percent, and the European Commission recently forecast that Spain would be the only euro economy still in recession next year. Madrid is struggling to meet its budget deficit targets and impose stricter discipline upon its regions.
Jonathan Loynes, the chief European economist at Capital Economics, said questions remained about whether Spain would still require a government bailout and whether the full extent of its banking losses had been uncovered.
The economic environment of ''sky-high unemployment and still-falling property prices hardly bodes well for banks' future profitability,'' he wrote in a research commentary.
Spain received a blow to its creditworthiness last Thursday when Fitch Ratings downgraded the country's debt by three notches, to BBB from A, leaving it just above junk status. On Monday, Fitch downgraded two Spanish banks, Banco Santander and its British arm, and Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, in a move that ''mirrors'' the sovereign rating.
''They reflect similar concerns to those that have affected the Spanish sovereign rating, in particular, that Spain is forecasted to remain in recession through the remainder of this year and 2013, compared to the previous expectation that the economy would benefit from a mild recovery in 2013 which directly affects the banks' volumes of activities in Spain,'' the agency said.
Weyman Gong, the principal and chief investment strategist at Signature, an investment firm, said, ''The European crisis is going to be prolonged for a couple of years.''
While Spain's financial troubles were well known, the 100 billion euros committed to the banking bailout was far above the 40 billion euros the International Monetary Fund estimated late Friday, but even that failed to instill confidence.
''That means the problem may be bigger than people had expected,'' Mr. Gong said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange on Monday, where stocks fell over 1 percent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN MCDERMID/REUTERS) (B2) CHARTS: 3-Month Treasury Bills: High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BAILOUTS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EURO (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (62%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); BNP PARIBAS SA (58%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); BNP (PAR) (58%); BNP (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); SPAIN (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); GREECE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



435 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Airlines Will Lose $1.1 Billion, Trade Group Predicts

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
BEIJING (AP) -- The International Air Transport Association on Monday nearly doubled its forecast of European airline losses this year to $1.1 billion and said that the worldwide aviation industry would scrape by with thin profit margins because of high fuel prices. 
American and Asian airlines should make money this year, but more airlines in Europe might follow Malev of Hungary into bankruptcy if the Europeanfinancial crisis worsens, theassociation, a global trade group, said.
The worldwide aviation industry should make a total profit this year of $3 billion on revenue of $631 billion, a 0.5 percent margin, the association said.
The group represents 240 airlines that carry 84 percent of passengers and cargo worldwide, but its forecast covers the whole industry.
''The industry's profitability is balancing on a knife edge,'' said Tony Tyler, chief executive and director general of the association.
The ''most immediate risk'' is Europe's debt crisis, which could drag down profits if it sets off a recession, Mr. Tyler said. He said a 1 percent decline in global airline revenue could turn the small profit the association predicts into a $3 billion loss.
Asian airlines should lead global profits at $2 billion this year, while their American counterparts are expected to earn $1.4 billion, the association said. Airlines in Latin America and the Middle East are expected to show profits of $400 million each while African airlines lose a total of $100 million.
The predicted European loss of $1.1 billion is nearly double the association's March outlook. Brian Pearce, an economist for the group, said the increased loss was a result of Europe's financial turmoil. In addition to Malev's failure in February, smaller airlines in Germany and Spain have closed.
''We've already seen some European airlines going out of business this year, and there is clearly a possibility that will continue,'' Mr. Pearce said.
The latest outlook is based on a forecast that oil prices will average $110 a barrel this year. The association said fuel accounted for 33 percent of airlines' costs, up from 13 to 14 percent a decade ago.
The global profit forecast represents a decline of more than 50 percent from $7.9 billion last year. That was down from $15.8 billion in 2010.
The association also appealed on Monday to governments to head off a mounting conflict over European carbon charges on airlines by negotiating a global system to regulate the industry's emissions of climate-changing gases.
China, the United States, India, Russia and others oppose the European charges, which took effect Jan. 1 and require airlines to buy permits to emit carbon.
China and India have prohibited their airlines from cooperating and Beijing has blocked purchases of European aircraft by its airlines, raising fears of further economic retaliation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: European debt threatens airlines, said Tony Tyler of the International Air Transport Association. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); GERMANY (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SPAIN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



436 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Why The Bailout In Spain Won't Work

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
It was not enough. And it may never be enough.
The euro zone's offer of $125 billion to bail out Spanish banks over the weekend was hailed by finance ministers and officials across Europe as a masterstroke. Germany's finance minister, Wolfgang Schauble, suggested no further bailouts would be needed, saying, ''Spain is on the right track.'' On Sunday, some analysts and investors even applauded, with David R. Kotok, co-founder and chief investment officer of Cumberland Advisors, proclaiming: ''Euro zone leaders rose to the occasion.'' How wrong they were.
By now, it should be apparent that the bailout has failed - or is at least on its way to failing. 
After a brief rally Monday morning, stock markets in Spain swooned. The 10-year Spanish bond - perhaps the greatest indicator of confidence, or in this case a lack of confidence - jumped higher, to about 6.5 percent, demonstrating that investors were now even more anxious about the country's ability to pay back its debts than they were the day before the bailout was announced. Seven percent was the threshold that preceded the government bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal in 2010 and 2011. The cost on Monday of buying credit-default swaps - or insurance - on Spanish debt spiked, too.
Indeed, it now appears that the bailout could make things in Spain worse, not better. And market indicators for the next domino in line for a bailout, Italy, point in the wrong direction.
This was bound to happen. That's because bailing out the banks in each European country individually is a fool's errand.
Experts often note - wrongly - that TARP, the Troubled Asset Relief Program that pumped $700 billion into the banking system in the United States, arrested the financial crisis in 2008. TARP, to some degree, has become the model for Europe.
But we forget history: TARP was only one component of the bailout. Perhaps more important - consider it the unsung hero of ending the crisis - was the government's unilateral move to raise the amount of money the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation could insure, increasing the account limit to $250,000 from $100,000 and fully backstopping the entire money-market industry.
Investors and bank customers who were considering taking their deposits and running in 2008 no longer had reason to do so once deposits and money-market funds had been guaranteed. Keeping your money at Citigroup or Bank of America was relatively indistinguishable from a safety standpoint.
That is not the case in Europe. Customers of Spanish banks still have reason to worry about the solvency of their banks - and their country - making it reasonable for them to take their money from Spanish banks and send it to banks in safer countries like Germany. Indeed, the bailout makes it less likely Spain can pay back its debts because the new loan of up to $125 billion was just added to its huge debt pile. Worse, Spanish banks had been the biggest buyers of Spanish debt (a farce of a way to prop up the economy) and that most likely won't continue.
As a result, it could be argued that it would be irresponsible for an individual or company, which has a fiduciary duty to its shareholders, not to move its money out of Spanish banks. Of course, money leaving the banks can become a self-fulfilling vicious cycle that virtually no amount of bank bailouts can plug. (By the way, countries like Spain have their own version of F.D.I.C., but it is all but worthless if you believe the country could collapse under its own debt.)
Ultimately, the only real way to begin to ensure the safety of the banks in Spain - and all of Europe - is to create a euro zone deposit guarantee system so that there would be no reason for a depositor to withdraw money. European leaders are expected to address the idea, along with regional banking regulation and a way to recapitalize ailing euro zone institutions, at a summit meeting at the end of the month. Oddly enough, such a deposit guarantee would probably be pretty cheap. The psychological effect of such a guarantee would most likely ensure the solvency of more banks than the guarantee would ever have to pay out. That was the experience in the United States.
Of course, there's a catch. A euro zone deposit guarantee would require agreement from all the countries that use the euro, which is something that the leaders there seem incapable of reaching because ultimately it would mean tighter integration and, yes, a loss of sovereignty.
And here's another problem with a euro zone deposit guarantee: Unless you believe the euro is going to remain the standard - that countries like Greece or Spain won't be forced out or secede from the currency - even the guarantee might not be enough, unless the guarantee holds for all currencies. For example, if a Spanish bank customer is worried that his euros might one day turn into pesetas - even with a deposit guarantee in place - he may well move his money.
In the meantime, this piecemeal approach is bound to fail. Kicking the can down the road, to use again an overused phrase, at some point will fail - and that's what may have just happened.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Unfinished buildings in Valencia, Spain. Despite the bailout of the nation's banks, its solvency remains a cause for concern. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL NAVARRETE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany. Bank customers in Spain are sending their money to safer countries, like hers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARKUS SCHREIBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CUMBERLAND ADVISORS (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (57%); WOLFGANG SCHAEUBLE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPAIN (98%); EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



437 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Debate On a Study Examining Gay Parents

BYLINE: By BENEDICT CAREY

 BODY:
Young adults from broken homes in which a parent had had a same-sex relationship reported modestly more psychological and social problems in their current lives than peers from other families that had experienced divorce and other disruptions, a new study has found, stirring bitter debate among partisans on gay marriage.
The study counted parents as gay or lesbian by asking participants whether their parents had ever had a same-sex relationship; the parents may not have identified themselves as gay or lesbian. Gay-rights groups attacked the study, financed by conservative foundations, as biased and poorly done even before its publication on Sunday in the journal Social Science Research. 
But outside experts, by and large, said the research was rigorous, providing some of the best data yet comparing outcomes for adult children with a gay parent with those with heterosexual parents. But they also said the findings were not particularly relevant to the current debate over gay marriage or gay parenting.
About half the study participants with a gay parent, as defined in the study, were born out of wedlock and half into a traditional family that broke up. Many lived with the gay parent sporadically.
Paul Amato, a sociologist at Penn State who was not involved in the study and has written in favor or same-sex marriage, said that many scholars suspected that some children with a gay parent might have more troubles than the average child, particularly in past decades when the stigma was greater. ''We know, for instance, that many people with a gay parent were essentially raised in a stepfamily, and went through a divorce, both of which are associated with modest but real disadvantages,'' he said.
Others said the study was limited in its usefulness. ''What we really need in this field is for strong skeptics to study gay, stable parents and compare them directly to a similar group of heterosexual, stable parents,'' said Judith Stacey, a sociologist at New York University.
The study looked a nationally representative sample of 2,988 people ages 18 to 39. The study's author, Mark Regnerus, a sociologist at the University of Texas in Austin, said he sought financing from the Witherspoon Institute in Princeton, N.J., and the Bradley Foundation in Milwaukee because government agencies ''don't want to touch this stuff.''
The participants answered questions about their current social, occupational and economic experiences and their early life. They included 163 whose mother had a same-sex relationship and 73 whose father did. Just three of those who had lesbian mothers lived out their entire childhood with that parent, Dr. Regnerus said; none of those whose fathers had had a same-sex relationship lived full time with their fathers through childhood.
The study controlled for factors like parent education, income, the perceived level of tolerance for gays in each person's community and whether the child was bullied as a result of the parent's sexual orientation.
Participants who grew up in intact, traditional families reported the lowest average level of problems in their current life, like drug use, unemployment or depressive moods, the study found. Participants who grew up in nontraditional arrangements -- with a single, heterosexual parent, in a stepfamily or in a family with a late divorce, for instance -- reported higher levels of such problems as adults.
Those who said they had a parent who had had a same-sex relationship fared somewhat worse than those in other nontraditional families. For instance, 38 percent of those who had a lesbian mother said they were currently on public assistance, compared with 31 percent of those whose parents divorced late and 10 percent of those who grew up in a traditional family.
Compared with the traditional group, those with a gay parent reported less education on average and more sexual partners; the same was true of those who grew up in other nontraditional households, to a slightly lesser extent.
Dr. Regnerus said that the study did not include the number, or variety, of people with a gay parent that he would have liked. ''This whole narrative of a gay couple raising a kid together, staying together -- that kind of thing didn't exist much,'' when the participants were children, he said.
''When I look at his data, my main take-away is that divorce and family transition is not a great outcome for kids,'' said Gary Gates, a demographer at the at the University of California, Los Angeles, who was not involved in the study.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); GAY PARENTING (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); FAMILY (90%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); PARENTING (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (75%); LGBT RIGHTS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WRITERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (76%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



438 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Incentives For Drivers Who Avoid Traffic Jams

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
PALO ALTO, Calif. -- London, Singapore, Stockholm and a few other cities around the world battle heavy traffic with a ''congestion charge,'' a stiff fee for driving in crowded areas at peak hours. But drivers generally hate the idea, and efforts to impose it in this country have failed.
Balaji Prabhakar, a professor of computer science at Stanford University, thinks he has a better way.
A few years ago, trapped in an unending traffic jam in Bangalore, India, he reflected that there was more than one way to get drivers to change their behavior. Congestion charges are sticks; why not try a carrot? 
So this spring, with a $3 million research grant from the federal Department of Transportation, Stanford deployed a new system designed by Dr. Prabhakar's group. Called Capri, for Congestion and Parking Relief Incentives, it allows people driving to the notoriously traffic-clogged campus to enter a daily lottery, with a chance to win up to an extra $50 in their paycheck, just by shifting their commute to off-peak times.
The program has proved so popular that it is to be expanded soon to also cover parking.
Amaya Odiaga, the director of business operations for Stanford's physical education department, now drives to campus a few minutes earlier and says she has won just $15. But a co-worker got $50 -- creating a competitive atmosphere that makes the program fun, Ms. Odiaga said.
Better yet, Ms. Odiaga's commute now takes as little as 7 minutes, down from 25 minutes at peak hours.
Dr. Prabhakar is a specialist in designing computer networks and has conducted a variety of experiments in using incentives to get people to change their behavior in driving, taking public transit, parking and even adopting a more active lifestyle. Unlike congestion pricing, which is mandatory for everyone and usually requires legislation, ''incentives can be started incrementally and are voluntary,'' he said.
Moreover, systems based on incentives can offer a huge advantage in simplicity. Until recently, the Stanford system required sensors around campus to detect signals from radio-frequency identification tags that participants carried in their cars. But the need for such an infrastructure has vanished now that so many drivers carry smartphones with GPS chips or other locaters.
Administrators can use the network to set up a centralized Web-based service to manage any number of incentive campaigns.
''Through smartphones we're getting more at ease about fine-grained information about space and time,'' said Frank Kelly, a mathematician at the University of Cambridge in England who specializes in traffic networks. ''This is possible because information and communications systems are becoming cheaper and cheaper.''
Samuel I. Schwartz, a transportation consultant and former New York City traffic commissioner, says a smartphone-based system is inevitable, though he predicts it will be used for congestion pricing as well as incentives.
''Ultimately we will be charged, or money will be added to our accounts, by using the cloud infrastructure,'' he said. ''It's so precise that you will be able to charge people for how much of Fifth Avenue they use and for how long a period. In Christmas season you may decide to charge them $10 to use Fifth Avenue for each block.''
In New York City, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan for congestion pricing died in 2008 for lack of support from the state Legislature. Pravin Varaiya, an expert on transportation systems at the University of California, Berkeley, said enforcement costs would have been ''huge,'' adding that ''carrots, as opposed to sticks, frequently work very well.''
Still, Charles Komanoff, a transportation expert who has designed a computer model of New York traffic, said he had reservations about such a system as an alternative to congestion pricing.
''The incentives will be far too small,'' he wrote in an e-mail, adding: ''You really do need big disincentives (big sticks). Little carrots won't do the job of changing drivers' decisions'' in New York or in San Francisco.
Dr. Prabhakar said congestion pricing and his incentive system need not be mutually exclusive, and he noted that highway congestion was an example of ''nonlinear'' behavior, in which even a small reduction in vehicles at a given time -- 10 percent or less -- can have a big effect on traffic flow.
And conversely, added Dr. Kelly, the mathematician, ''when the system is close to critical levels, very small increases in traffic can create time delays for everyone.''
Dr. Prabhakar's experiments have offered different kinds of incentives, from airline-style reward points to lottery cash prizes. Now his system is poised to reach a much larger audience.
Singapore is considering a system he and his students designed that offers lottery participation or a fare discount to public transit riders who travel at off-peak times. A trial run begun in January lowered rush-hour ridership by more than 10 percent. (Given a choice between discounts and lottery, riders overwhelmingly chose the lottery.)
Bill Reinert, an advanced technology manager at Toyota, says incentives are no panacea. ''Incentives the government gives you'' to buy hybrid vehicles ''are a good way not to establish markets,'' he said. But he added: ''Do incentives work? Yes. I fly 300,000 miles a year on United.''
The Stanford experiment adds a social network component to the lottery, in effect making it a game where friends can observe one another's ''good'' behavior. The researchers say this tends to reinforce changes in behavior and individual commitment. Next fall, the university plans to expand the system to encourage people to park farther from the busiest parking structures.
The idea of using incentives to change social and personal behavior has grown increasingly popular. In their 2008 book ''Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth and Happiness,'' the economist Richard H. Thaler and the legal scholar Cass R. Sunstein argued that organizational structures could be created that guide people toward better behavior.
Dr. Thaler noted that variable tolls, like those used on the Hudson River crossings in New York at different times of day, ''are clearly an attempt to shift people's incentives.'' Of traffic systems like Stanford's, he said, ''this is just as efficient.''
Dr. Prabhakar's first experiment was in Bangalore in 2008, when he created a system to encourage employees at the software company Infosys to choose different travel times to its suburban campus. The system significantly lowered congestion.
More recently, he worked with Accenture, a business services company, to set up a system that used pedometers to measure the number of footsteps more than 3,000 employees took each day, encouraging them to walk more for better health. The campaign, called ''Steptacular,'' included a social network component and a Web-based game to add a random element to the incentives; it handed out $238,000 in rewards.
Dr. Prabhakar said the power of his method was that only a small change could have a drastic effect.
''This is one of the nicer problems,'' he said. ''You don't have to change everyone's behavior; in fact, it's better if you don't.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SENSOR: Chinmoy Mandayam, a graduate student at Stanford, adjusted a traffic scanner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM YUE)(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (84%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (71%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); LOTTERIES (69%); SMARTPHONES (64%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (91%); ENGLAND (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



439 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: For U.S. Families, Net Worth Falls To 1990s Levels

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The recent economic crisis left the median American family in 2010 with no more wealth than in the early 1990s, erasing almost two decades of accumulated prosperity, the Federal Reserve said Monday.
A hypothetical family richer than half the nation's families and poorer than the other half had a net worth of $77,300 in 2010, compared with $126,400 in 2007, the Fed said. The crash of housing prices directly accounted for three-quarters of the loss.
Families' income also continued to decline, a trend that predated the crisis but accelerated over the same period. Median family income fell to $45,800 in 2010 from $49,600 in 2007. All figures were adjusted for inflation. 
The new data comes from the Fed's much-anticipated release on Monday of its Survey of Consumer Finances, a report issued every three years that is one of the broadest and deepest sources of information about the financial health of American families.
While the numbers are already 18 months old, the survey illuminates problems that continue to slow the pace of the economic recovery. The Fed found that middle-class families had sustained the largest percentage losses in both wealth and income during the crisis, limiting their ability and willingness to spend.
''It fills in details to a picture that we already knew was quite ugly, and these details very much underscore that,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities who served as an adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''It makes clear how devastating this has been for the middle class.''
Given the scale of those losses, consumer spending has remained surprisingly resilient. The survey also illuminates where the money is coming from: American families saved less and only slowly repaid debts.
The share of families saving anything over the previous year fell to 52 percent in 2010 from 56.4 percent in 2007. Other government statistics show that total savings have increased since 2007, suggesting that a smaller group of families is saving more money, while a growing number manage to save nothing.
The survey also found a shift in the reasons that families set aside money, underscoring the lack of confidence that is weighing on the economy. More families said they were saving money as a precautionary measure, to make sure they had enough liquidity to meet short-term needs. Fewer said they were saving for retirement, or for education, or for a down payment on a home.
The report underscored the limited progress that households had made in reducing the amounts that they owed to lenders. The share of households reporting any debt declined by 2.1 percentage points over the last three years, but 74.9 percent of households still owed something, and the median amount did not change.
The decline in reported incomes could have increased the weight of those debts, tying up a larger share of families' take-home pay. But one of the rare benefits of the crisis, historically lower interest rates, has helped to offset that effect. Families also have been able to reduce debt payments by refinancing into mortgages with longer terms and deferring repayment of student loans and other obligations.
The survey also confirmed that Americans are shifting the kinds of debts they carry. The share of families with credit card debt declined by 6.7 percentage points to 39.4 percent, and the median balance fell 16.1 percent to $2,600.
Families also reduced the number of credit cards that they carried, and 32 percent of families said they had no cards, up from 27 percent in 2007.
Conversely, the share of families with education-related debt rose to 19.2 percent in 2010 from 15.2 percent in 2007. The Fed noted that education loans made up a larger share of the average family's obligations than loans to buy automobiles for the first time in the history of the survey.
The cumulative statistics concealed large disparities in the impact of the crisis.
Families with incomes in the middle 60 percent of the population lost a larger share of their wealth over the three-year period than the wealthiest and poorest families.
One basic reason for this disproportion is that the wealth of the middle class is mostly in housing, and the median amount of home equity dropped to $75,000 in 2010 from $110,000 in 2007. And while other forms of wealth have recovered much of the value lost in the crisis, housing prices have hardly budged.
Those middle-income families also lost a larger share of their income. The earnings of the median family in the bottom 20 percent of the income distribution actually increased from 2007 to 2010, in part because of the expansion of government aid programs during the recession. Wealthier families, which derive more income from investments, were also cushioned against the recession.
The data does provide the latest indication, however, that the recession reduced income inequality in the United States, at least temporarily. The average income of the wealthiest families fell much more sharply than the median, indicating that some of those at the very top of the ladder slipped down at least a few rungs.
Ranking American families by income, the top 10 percent of households still earned an average of $349,000 in 2010.
The average net worth of the same families was $2.9 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A house for sale in Washington. Falling home prices accounted for three-quarters of the losses in net worth. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FAMILY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); TRENDS (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); HOME PRICES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (54%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); JOE BIDEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



440 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEMO FROM NEW DELHI; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: In a Time to Shine, India Can't Get Off the Ground

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS; Vikas Bajaj contributed reporting from Mumbai, and Heather Timmons from New Delhi.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- Like China, India has long been eager to showcase the best features of its fast-growing economy on the international stage. But whenever it gets a chance to shine, something almost invariably goes wrong.
The latest example involves India's plans to be only the second country to roll out Boeing's newest jet, the superefficient 787 Dreamliner, on its international routes. Instead of being the guest of honor at a celebration at Indira Gandhi International Airport here, however, India's Dreamliner has been sitting on a tarmac in Everett, Wash., waiting for a formal invitation.
And even when the plane does arrive, which could be as early as next week, any celebration is likely to be muted because of a noisy dispute between pilots at the state-owned airline, Air India, that has led to a strike and a shutdown of some international flights. 
Indians are deeply status conscious -- the country's ancient caste system includes thousands of categories -- so the battle within the pilot ranks at Air India is no small matter to them. But the failure to resolve these issues before the plane's arrival reflects other vexing contradictions in India: a near-paralysis in government decision making, as well as a continued insistence that the government retain control over important national industries. This unfortunate combination of control and indecision has crippled its coal mining, power generation, oil and agriculture sectors. And now Air India.
''There is more pretense than substance to our hankering for great power,'' said Bharat Karnad, a professor of national security studies at the Center for Policy Research here. ''Most of our problems come from self-inflicted wounds, and there is no easy remedy.''
The last time India muffed a chance to star on the international stage in such a public way was in 2010, when its failure to provide adequate sporting and hospitality sites for the Commonwealth Games was deeply embarrassing, particularly because it came only two years after China had carried off its spectacular Olympic Games like clockwork.
As with everything about India, the reasons for the latest public debacle are complicated.
Manufacturing glitches led Boeing to put off the plane's completion by three years, so most of the company's customers cannot get the plane fast enough. But not India.
''India's airplane is ready,'' said Dinesh Keskar, a senior vice president for sales at Boeing. ''We are waiting to give it to them.''
First, the country demanded that Boeing pay a $1 billion penalty for the manufacturing delays in India's 27-plane order. Boeing offered a small fraction of that. The two sides have since come to an agreement but have not disclosed the amount. A government cabinet meeting is scheduled for the end of this week to approve the deal. But until then, no plane.
But even after that dispute is finally put to rest, Air India faces a fight with its pilots over who among them should be allowed to fly the 787.
Air India's pilot problem has festered since a merger was announced in 2007 between the two state-owned airlines, Air India and Indian Airlines. Pilots from the original Air India argued that since the Dreamliners were bought before the merger, only pilots working for the carrier at the time should be allowed to fly them.
But Air India, seeking a more flexible and efficient operation, sent 32 pilots from each of its predecessor companies to Singapore for training on the new plane. In response, hundreds of pilots have been calling in sick since May 7.
The merger of the two airlines was intended to create a carrier strong enough to compete globally and burnish India's reputation. Just the opposite has happened, as repeated strikes, poor service and safety fears have left Air India flailing even as the domestic and Asian air travel markets have grown rapidly. On Sunday, a nose wheel on an Air India jet with 52 people aboard fell off during takeoff from Silchar Airport, and the plane made an emergency landing in Guwahati, in northeastern India, with no major damage or injuries.
''In hindsight, I can say that the merger didn't work out,'' said Ajit Singh, India's minister of civil aviation.
The government agreed this year to give the airline a $5.4 billion bailout as long as it met certain financial milestones.
''That's why the strike came at such an inopportune time,'' Mr. Singh said. ''This is the public's money.''
Mr. Singh announced last week that he had fired 101 of the 400 striking pilots and that the airline was in the midst of training new ones. Air India has had to cancel all its flights to Hong Kong, Osaka, Seoul and Toronto. Mr. Singh urged the pilots to return to work without preconditions.
K. Swaminathan, an Air India spokesman, estimated that normal operations would resume within three or four months, and he said the airline had enough trained pilots to fly all three Dreamliners expected to be delivered this month. But the loss of highly profitable international routes will cost the airline dearly.
Air India's turnaround plan depends heavily on the improved efficiency that the 787 will bring, so getting the airplane into the airline's rotation is crucial. The 787 is the first major commercial plane made almost exclusively from composite materials. Its wings flex like a glider's when flying, and its reduced weight saves fuel.
''I'm very confident we will succeed,'' Mr. Singh said.
Others are less sanguine. Air India is unlikely to turn itself around, said Saj Ahmad, chief analyst at StrategicAero Research in London, ''until they sort out the strike and get pilots working again and streamline their top-heavy management team with one that knows how to run an airline.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Boeing 787 Dreamliners bought by Air India have remained in Everett, Wash., amid a dispute between the airline and Boeing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); AGRICULTURE (50%); OLYMPICS (50%); COAL MINING (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL AVIATION CO OF INDIA LTD (AIR INDIA) (92%); BOEING CO (84%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



441 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1384 words

HEADLINE: For Ohio Pottery, a Small Revival

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
EAST LIVERPOOL, Ohio -- Not that long ago, this little Ohio River town could call itself the pottery capital of the nation. Some four dozen pottery factories here ''set America's table,'' as the locals liked to boast, churning out everything from fine china to chamber pots and employing a large majority of the work force.
But no longer. Global competition and economic collapse shattered the industry like a poorly executed tablecloth trick and turned East Liverpool into a desperate corner of the country. Median income is roughly one-third lower than the state average, and more than 10 percent of working-age residents are unemployed.
Just two pottery makers remain, and one, the American Mug and Stein Company, was on the verge of closing last fall. Then Ulrich Honighausen called. Mr. Honighausen, the owner of a tableware company, Hausenware, in Sonoma County, Calif., which supplies retailers like Crate & Barrel, Pottery Barn and Fred Meyer with ceramics and glassware from producers all over the world, had a plan to revitalize American Mug and create jobs in an industry that had all but died. What if American Mug were to make mugs for Starbucks? 
''I almost didn't take his call because I figured it was a crank call or something,'' said Clyde M. McClellan, owner of American Mug.
But on Tuesday, the company's mugs will go on sale in Starbucks stores across the country as part of a line of new merchandise made in America and branded Indivisible.
American Mug's production has kept four people employed and created eight more jobs here, and money from the sale of the mugs and other Indivisible merchandise will go to support Starbucks's Create Jobs for USA Fund, which helps small businesses. ''You have to start somewhere,'' Mr. Honighausen said.
The unlikely partnership between Starbucks, with its 200,000 employees, and tiny American Mug grows out of the debate over outsourcing by American companies and what responsibility, if any, they bear for addressing the decline of the country's job market.
A few companies have taken some small steps to bring lost manufacturing jobs back to American soil, driven sometimes by declining labor costs in the United States, other times by dissatisfaction with the quality of goods made abroad.
General Electric, for example, has created almost 800 jobs by building plants in Schenectady, N.Y., and Louisville, Ky., to make sophisticated batteries, some of which were previously made in China. NCR is making automated teller machines in Georgia that had also been made overseas.
Last month, Starbucks announced it would build a factory in Augusta, Ga., that would employ 140 people and make the company's Via instant coffee and the ingredients for its popular Frappuccino drinks. About half of Starbucks's new employment overall will come in the United States, the rest internationally.
''We are on the hunt for other domestic opportunities for products we sell and other things we do,'' said Howard D. Schultz, chief executive of Starbucks. ''There has to be a sense of urgency about action, and since we're not likely to find it in Washington between now and the election, it's time for companies and businesses to step up and find a balance between profitability and responsibility.''
The effort is not all altruistic. Chinese labor has become more expensive, and Starbucks and other companies are looking at their supply chains more holistically. American Mug can deliver to Starbucks in four days, while Chinese suppliers may take three months.
A Chinese supplier is also likely to require an order in the hundreds of thousands, increasing the risk that Starbucks will get stuck with inventory. And then there is the difference in shipping costs. ''No doubt the cost of doing what we're doing in East Liverpool at least in the initial stage will be more expensive for Starbucks, but the investment we're making in this is about the conscience of our company and recognition that success has to be shared,'' Mr. Schultz said.
So far, though, evidence that companies are bringing jobs back to America is spotty at best. ''I'm not sure we're seeing a sea change,'' said Gary P. Pisano, a professor at Harvard Business School. ''What we need to see is manufacturing that creates new capabilities here that we didn't have and can build on, and I don't think we're seeing that yet.''
The business school has thrown its enormous prestige and resources behind what it calls ''reinventing America,'' an effort in part to persuade American businesses, many of which are led by its graduates, to take a hard look at the impact their outsourcing has had on the country's competitiveness.
''One of our concerns is that as we lose certain capabilities in manufacturing, we are also losing highly innovative processes,'' Professor Pisano said. ''If a company does its manufacturing in China, its suppliers are going to locate in China and then a lot of the innovation that grows out of those businesses and creates new jobs is going to happen there and not here.''
To be sure, pottery manufacturing is not the kind of high-octane business Mr. Pisano envisions when he thinks about how to restore American competitiveness. American Mug and Stein uses much the same manufacturing techniques it did 90 years ago, relying on molds and casting, finishing and glazing that are done by hand.
The factory, where the temperature stays at 90 degrees to ensure the products dry properly, feels Dickensian. Shards of broken pottery and clay dust are piled on the floors, and products are pulled by employees along a monorail to various stations in the four-story factory.
''I was surprised I got into this town without a passport,'' Mr. Honighausen said. ''It looked like a third-world country.''
Since he started his company in 1987, most of the manufacturing is done overseas, in Europe and more recently in China, where pottery making is a highly automated process.
A tiny factory in Gifu, Japan, for instance, can turn out 7,000 mugs a day with just eight employees, two of whom are charged with attaching the handles that are supplied by another manufacturer. That's 10 times the number American Mug can produce using the same number of employees.
He found American Mug last fall after having heard an interview with Mr. Schultz, in which the Starbucks chief, disgusted with the political standoff in Washington over raising the debt ceiling, called on business leaders to stop making donations to politicians and start doing something themselves to address the country's woes.
''It was a good kick in the pants for me,'' Mr. Honighausen said. ''I thought, 'Let's just do it.' ''
He first considered building a factory in Northern California, close to his base of operations, but a business contact who makes decals used to apply decoration to pottery suggested that he instead take a look at what might be available in East Liverpool.
Now, not only is American Mug on its second order for Starbucks, but Mr. McClellan has gone into business with Mr. Honighausen and one of his longtime associates, Kazuharu Kato, who manufactures pottery in Japan and China. They bought a pottery factory and have plans to hire 10 to 15 people once they get it up and running sometime later this year. Called the Red Barn, it will use state-of-the-art machinery like that used in Mr. Kato's factories in Japan and China, enabling it to turn out mugs and eventually other products by the thousands each day.
Christina Bishop is one of the new employees hired by American Mug. Ms. Bishop said the local economy was ''tough'' and added, ''There really aren't any jobs available here that pay enough for you to afford to have a family.'' Her husband, Eric, was out of work for six months before also landing a job at American Mug.
Many of East Liverpool's 11,000 residents work at the casinos across the Ohio River in West Virginia or at the Pittsburgh airport, about a 40-minute drive away. The East Liverpool school district is the town's largest employer. The Homer Laughlin China Company, the other pottery still operating there, employs 200 to 300 workers.
''Even seeing a few jobs created is very exciting,'' said Ryan Estell, the city manager of East Liverpool. ''That someone noticed there is something more here than just machines, that there are also skills and know-how here, is important for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christina Bishop started work at American Mug and Stein in East Liverpool, Ohio, four months ago. (B1)
Separating a mug from its mold, left, at American Mug and Stein. At right, A. J. Johnson sharing lunch with his girlfriend, Susan Bosak. They started at the pottery three months ago.
Brian Custer loading mugs headed for the kiln at the pottery factory in East Liverpool, Ohio, which once called itself the pottery capital of the nation.
 Clyde McClellan, left, owner of American Mug and Stein, and Ulrich Honighausen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF SWENSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHINA & POTTERY PRODUCT MFG (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); OUTSOURCING (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); RETAILERS (73%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (63%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (63%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (55%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (55%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); AUGUSTA, GA, USA (65%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (56%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



442 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Companies Born in Europe, but Based on the Planet

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
LONDON - When Alex Ljung, a multilingual entrepreneur, co-founded the audio-sharing Web service SoundCloud in Stockholm in 2007, he knew the company needed an international expansion strategy right away. The company didn't have a big domestic market or access to a large pool of world-class developers.
A few months after the company was started, Mr. Ljung and his business partner, Eric Wahlforss, moved to Berlin to be closer to many of the region's largest markets and tap into the city's booming start-up community. Earlier this year, he started breaking into the American market, securing $50 million of financing from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, the Silicon Valley venture capital giant, and other firms. 
Mr. Ljung, who was born in London and grew up in Sweden, now splits his time between Germany and the United States.
''It was obvious that our business had to be global from the start,'' he said. ''We're more like citizens of the Internet than citizens of a country.''
With Europe's market spread across more than 50 countries and the Continent's economy struggling under the weight of its debt crisis, local start-ups are forced to become global from the outset. As international markets, particularly fast-growing emerging economies, become ever more important to start-ups' growth, European entrepreneurs are hoping their experience in foreign markets will help them compete with more-established and better-financed American rivals.
''An international mind-set is baked into the DNA of Europeans,'' said Saul Klein, a partner of the Geneva-based venture capital firm Index Ventures, which has backed some well-known European start-ups, including Skype and the Internet radio station Last.fm. ''Great entrepreneurs can come from anywhere. Even start-ups from small countries can compete on the global stage.''
While Silicon Valley continues to dominate the venture capital industry, other cities like London, Paris and Berlin are attracting large numbers of investors and start-ups in the technology industry and other sectors like financial services and fashion. The east end of London, which has become home to the city's young entrepreneurs, recorded a 40 percent rise in start-ups last year, according to British government statistics.
The young companies in big European capitals are able to draw upon a global, multilingual work force accustomed to moving between different languages and cultures. Well-educated graduates are also more willing to work for fledging businesses, since large companies aren't aggressively hiring in the current economic malaise. Since 2008, Criteo, a French company that helps businesses market to consumers online, has grown from 20 employees to a 500-person staff comprising more than 15 nationalities in its 15 offices around the world.
''We've become a global company,'' said Jean-Baptiste Rudelle, a co-founder of Criteo, who has moved to the West Coast to run the company's operations in the United States. ''We are still a European company, but with an international footprint.''
The new generation of European start-ups still faces a tough slog in the region's current economic environment. The volatile capital markets make it hard for new companies to go public, and many large businesses are reluctant to spend their large cash reserves to acquire start-ups.
Venture capitalists also have reduced their investments. Start-ups based in Europe raised a combined 762 million euros, or $958 million, through fund-raising in the first quarter of the year, a 41 percent drop from the same period last year, according to data from Dow Jones VentureSource, which tracks the venture capital industry. Fund-raising for start-ups in the United States fell 18 percent over the same period.
Despite the economic weakness, Kristjan Hiiemaa, the founder of the e-commerce software company Erply, continues to push ahead. Started in Talinn, Estonia, in 2009, the company now has offices in London and New York, and expects to more than double its client base to 100,000 customers by the end of the year. Erply counts a number of Fortune 500 companies, including eBay's PayPal and the cosmetics company Elizabeth Arden, as clients.
''In New York or Chicago, no one cares that we're from Estonia,'' said Mr. Hiiemaa, who takes chocolates from his home country to help break the ice. ''We have an international team and our clients are all around the world.''
The ability to win new business in far-flung places is likely to become more important as start-ups focus on growth in emerging markets. Western countries still attract the majority of entrepreneurs' attention. But analysts say the rise of a free-spending middle class in countries like China and Brazil is forcing companies to develop strategies before local competitors, which often mimic the Western start-ups' business ideas, beat them to market.
To compete in these developing economies, start-ups must be willing to quickly alter their businesses in line with the local cultures and languages. After successfully expanding into new markets and navigating the complexities of winning over foreign customers, European start-ups like SoundCloud and Erply think they're well placed to take advantage.
''The appeal of products has become international from the get-go,'' said Danny Rimer, a Silicon Valley-based partner at Index Ventures, which has invested in both the companies. ''Europe's advantage is that companies already know how to adapt to new countries.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alex Ljung, co-founder of the Web service SoundCloud, splits his time between Germany and the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSTAFAH ABDULAZIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY STRATEGY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); STATISTICS (60%)

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); SWEDEN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



443 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Institute's Gas Drilling Report Leads to Claims of Bias and Concern for a University's Image

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

 BODY:
A report from a new institute at the State University at Buffalo asserting that state oversight has made natural gas drilling safer is causing tumult on campus and beyond, with critics arguing that the institute is biased toward industry and could undercut the university's reputation.
The study, issued on May 15, said that state regulation in Pennsylvania had made drilling there far safer and that New York rules were even more likely to ensure safety once drilling gets under way in the state.
But a government watchdog group quickly raised questions about the study's data and the authors' ties to the oil and gas industry. And a newly formed group of professors and students is calling for a broader inquiry into the genesis of the institute, which issued the report only weeks after its creation was announced in April.
''This report reflects the interests of the gas companies, not scholarship,'' said Jim Holstun, a professor of English and one of around 20 members of the newly formed University at Buffalo Coalition for Leading Ethically in Academic Research, which met for the first time Wednesday night. ''We look very bad.'' 
The controversy at the university, a major research center with the biggest enrollment in the State University of New York system with 28,600 students, taps into widespread concerns in academia about the growing influence of corporate money in research as government grants decline. The drilling research arm, the Shale Resources and Society Institute, is seeking to raise $1.14 million in start-up money over the next three years from the oil and gas industry and other sources, according to the university and the institute's Web site.
University officials, who say they will respond to the criticisms raised, said their goal in founding the institute was to bring academic rigor to the hot-button issue of horizontal hydraulic fracturing, or hydrofracking, which involves pumping large volumes of chemicals and water into shale under high pressure to extract gas.
The drilling process has roiled communities in Pennsylvania since it began in full there in 2008, with many residents complaining about air pollution and threats to groundwater aquifers. It has also proved divisive in New York, where the administration of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is finalizing proposed regulations to allow drilling upstate.
E. Bruce Pitman, dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at the University at Buffalo, said in an interview that the idea for the institute came out of a series of seminars on hydrofracking issues held by the geology department last year that pointed up the need for a forum ''for the exchange of ideas and debate.'' The institute as a whole has yet to receive financial support from the industry, Dr. Pitman said, and its start-up budget -- about $40,000 -- came from the college's discretionary funds.
In their report, the shale institute's researchers said they examined violations by Marcellus Shale drillers in Pennsylvania from January 2008 to August 2011. It said that the incidence of major ''polluting environmental events'' related to hydrofracking -- like contamination of local water supplies and spills -- declined by more than half in three years, ''a rather notable indicator of improvement by the industry and oversight by the regulators.''
The report added that under New York's proposed rules, which are more stringent, any problems ''could have been either entirely avoided or mitigated.''
But in a searing critique issued nine days later, the Public Accountability Initiative, a local watchdog group, questioned the study's claims, saying the rate of major violations had actually gone up. The group also took some of the authors to task for copying entire passages from a report they wrote last year for the conservative Manhattan Institute, without proper attribution.
''What happens is that the first study gets published, and that study is cited by other studies that come out,'' said Kevin Connor, the co-director of the Public Accountability Initiative. ''U.B. just put its label on it.''
He said the material gained the stature of academic research once released by the University at Buffalo. A university news release accompanying the report even described it as ''peer-reviewed'' -- words that were later retracted by the university.
The authors' ties to the oil and gas industry also were not fully disclosed, said the accountability group, which focuses on corporate and government corruption. The two lead authors, Timothy J. Considine, an economist at the University of Wyoming, and Robert W. Watson, an associate professor emeritus of engineering at Pennsylvania State University, conduct research for industry.
Neither Dr. Considine nor Dr. Watson returned calls or responded to e-mails. The third author, the shale institute's co-director, John P. Martin, who does planning and public relations work for the industry through JPMartin Energy Strategy in Saratoga Springs, declined to be interviewed through a University at Buffalo spokesman.
The fourth author was Dr. Considine's son Nicholas, identified in the report as being affiliated with the University of Wyoming's Center for Energy Economics and Public Policy, which is led by his father.
The Marcellus Shale Coalition, a trade group of oil and gas companies, finances studies by Dr. Considine and Dr. Watson on the economic impacts of natural gas development.
Kathryn Klaber, the coalition's president, said that the researchers were chosen because of their experience, and that the purpose of the research was to advance the ''technological and economic understanding that's going to get us to the next level in shale gas development.''
Like other industries, oil and gas companies routinely support energy, geology and engineering research to harness scientific expertise, to advance technology and to groom a work force they can draw from in the future. Consulting work by researchers is also common.
Energy programs like the School of Energy Resources where Dr. Considine teaches at the University of Wyoming show the logos of partnering oil and gas companies on their Web sites. So does a different SUNY shale research institute, founded in 2009 on the Fredonia campus and led by Gary Lash, another prominent researcher with his own consulting firm.
''When a corporation gives you a gift, you want to say thank you,'' said Michael R. Barone, a spokesman for SUNY Fredonia.
Some experts on the ethics of research say that only peer-reviewed research published in independent journals should be taken seriously. Any corporate ties, they add, must be fully disclosed.
''The thing that's really hanging over all this is that when companies fund research, the companies attempt to borrow the prestige of the university,'' said Thomas O. McGarity, a law professor at the University of Texas at Austin and a board member at the Center for Progressive Reform. ''Universities have to be absolutely transparent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jim Holstun, of the University at Buffalo Coalition for Leading Ethically in Academic Research, said a study on hydraulic fracturing ''reflects the interests of the gas companies, not scholarship.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN BANNON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ETHICS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); BUDGETS (69%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (67%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); INTERVIEWS (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



444 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By JACK EWING, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED, BEN PROTESS and NEIL GOUGH

 BODY:
BEHIND SCHEDULE Despite fresh reminders of the fragility of the financial system, the United States, the European Union and Japan are behind schedule on executing measures that were adopted as part of an international effort to avert banking crises, a high-level panel said Monday. 
In a report to Group of 20 leaders ahead of their summit meeting in Mexico next week, regulators and central bankers from the world's largest countries gave poor marks to the regions that have been most vulnerable to banking crises in recent years. JACK EWING
AMERICAN EXPANSION Autonomous Research, a boutique research firm based in London, has decided to expand in the United States in a big way -- by hiring one of the top banking analysts around.
The firm announced on Monday that it had hired Guy Moszkowski from Bank of America Merrill Lynch as the chief executive of its United States operations. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
NEW OVERSIGHT The Securities and Exchange Commission and its chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, right, outlined a plan on Monday to phase in dozens of new rules governing over-the-counter swaps.
The rules require companies to trade most derivatives contracts through regulated exchanges and force most derivatives deals to go through clearinghouses, which act as backstops in case one party defaults.BEN PROTESS
PUBLIC DEBUT The Malaysian palm oil producer Felda Global Venture Holdings plans to raise up to $3.2 billion this week in the world's second-biggest initial public offering this year after Facebook's, according to a person with knowledge of the deal.
Felda, a state-owned producer of crude palm oil that earns most of its revenue in Malaysia, appears to be filling order books as the deal moves toward final pricing on Wednesday and a trading debut on the Kuala Lumpur exchange on June 28. NEIL GOUGH
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); MISC OILSEED PROCESSING (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: MARY L SCHAPIRO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



445 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Insider Trading Case Focuses on Defendant's Character

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
The federal judge overseeing the insider trading trial of Rajat K. Gupta made it clear from the outset that he would limit evidence related to the defendant's extensive charitable works and humanitarian acts.
''If Mother Teresa were here and charged with bank robbery, the jury would still have to determine whether or not she committed bank robbery,'' said Judge Jed S. Rakoff, the presiding judge, during a pretrial hearing last month.
Judge Rakoff has followed through on his promise to curb such testimony. On Monday, the defense was restricted in what it could elicit from three character witnesses for Mr. Gupta, who ran the consulting firm McKinsey & Company and played a leadership role in various global health initiatives. 
The government has accused Mr. Gupta, a former director of Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, with leaking boardroom secrets about those two companies to Raj Rajaratnam, a former hedge fund manager convicted last year of insider trading. The jury trial is now in its fourth and final week in Federal District Court in Manhattan. If found guilty, Mr. Gupta, a 63-year-old resident of Westport, Conn., faces up to 20 years in prison.
Among the witnesses who took the stand on Monday was Suprotik Basu, an executive at the United Nations working on a project to eradicate malaria. After being asked how he met Mr. Gupta, Mr. Basu, 34, began to recall in detail their first encounter, in January 2008.
''I got an urgent call that a businessman wanted to end all childhood deaths from malaria by 2025,'' Mr. Basu said.
A prosecutor jumped out of his chair and objected to the testimony. Judge Rakoff sustained the objection.
Two other witnesses took the stand, one who had traveled from India, to testify about Mr. Gupta's character: Ashok Alexander, the director of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in India and a former McKinsey colleague, and Anil Sood, a childhood friend and a former executive at the World Bank. Their brief testimonies were an effort to show the jury that Mr. Gupta was a person of high integrity.
On cross-examination, Reed Brodsky, the prosecutor, asked them if they had knowledge of any investments or business dealings that Mr. Gupta had had with Mr. Rajaratnam, who ran the now-defunct Galleon Group hedge fund. They said that they had not.
Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta, used Mr. Basu to walk the jury through Mr. Gupta's busy calendar on Sept. 23, 2008 - a day, prosecutors say, that Mr. Gupta tipped off Mr. Rajaratnam to Berkshire Hathaway's $5 billion investment in Goldman during the depths of the financial crisis.
The calendar showed that Mr. Gupta listened to the Goldman board call for about a half-hour beginning at 3:15 p.m. On that call, he and his fellow directors approved the Berkshire investment. Prosecutors say that Mr. Gupta immediately phoned Mr. Rajaratnam after the call and told him the news, enabling Mr. Rajaratnam to buy Goldman stock before its public announcement later that evening.
Mr. Naftalis highlighted meetings that Mr. Basu had had with Mr. Gupta after the Goldman call, including a conference with Julian Schweitzer, the World Bank's head of health nutrition, and Raymond G. Chambers, the United Nations special envoy for malaria. Mr. Basu then accompanied Mr. Gupta to a dinner honoring the health minister of Ethiopia at Django, the now-closed Midtown Manhattan brasserie.
Had Mr. Gupta brought up either Goldman Sachs or Warren E. Buffett, the head of Berkshire, at those meetings, Mr. Naftalis asked. Mr. Basu said that he hadn't.
Mr. Basu's testimony opened the door for the government to revisit phone records showing at least six telephone calls between Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam on Sept. 23, including a 56-second conversation that occurred just moments after the Goldman board call.
Mr. Brodsky asked Mr. Basu if he was present for that call. Mr. Basu said that he wasn't.
Toward the end of Monday's session, Mr. Gupta's oldest daughter, Geetanjali Gupta, took the stand. Nearly every day of the trial, Ms. Gupta and her three sisters have flanked Mr. Gupta's wife in the front row of the spectators' gallery.
Ms. Gupta, 33, told the jury that she had degrees from Harvard College, Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School. She said that she was the mother of 2 1/2-year-old twins and worked for the Harvard Management Company, a firm that oversees the investment of the university's endowment.
Mr. Naftalis began to ask Ms. Gupta about a conversation that she had with her father relating to a fallout he had with Mr. Rajaratnam in 2008. The defense contends that Mr. Gupta had no incentive to tip off Mr. Rajaratnam during that period because he had lost his entire $10 million investment in a Galleon fund.
The prosecution objected to the line of questioning, leading to a private conference between the two sides that ended the day. Ms. Gupta is expected to resume her testimony on Tuesday morning, with the defense resting its case later in the day. Summations are scheduled for Wednesday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); JURY TRIALS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); CHARITIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); BANK ROBBERY (77%); LAWYERS (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MALARIA (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (68%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%); BRK.B (NYSE) (50%); BRK.A (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (50%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) INDIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



446 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: Shaky Battery Maker Claims a Breakthrough

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and MATTHEW L. WALD; Bill Vlasic reported from Detroit, and Matthew L. Wald from Washington.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Lauded during a visit by President Obama, A123 Systems was supposed to be a centerpiece of his administration's effort to use $2 billion in government subsidies to jump-start production of sophisticated electric batteries in the United States.
Instead, the company, which makes lithium-ion batteries for electric cars, has stumbled along with the rest of the nascent industry and now threatens to give more ammunition to critics of the president's heavy spending on new energy technologies.
A123 had to cut workers at its new factory in Livonia, Mich., financed in part with the promise of a $249 million government grant, after its battery for one new electric vehicle faltered and required an expensive recall. Completion of the factory has been delayed. The company is running short of money and has warned that unless it raises more cash from private investors, it might not be able to stay in business.
Yet as much as A123 represents the risks of the government's battery technology program, it also represents its promise. On Tuesday, A123 Systems will unveil a new battery technology that the company says is a breakthrough in the industry. 
The advance uses a new chemistry that could permit the creation of a simpler, lighter, longer-lasting battery pack that does not require a system to cool or heat it.
The success or failure of the new technology may well determine the fate of A123. It will also render an early verdict on Mr. Obama's broader push to promote electric cars and build a domestic industry to develop and manufacture advanced batteries to run them.
The president's prediction of a million electric cars on the road by 2015 seems unattainable, given the tepid demand for the first models on the market. So far this year, combined sales of the Chevrolet Volt plug-in hybrid and Nissan Leaf electric car total less than 10,000 vehicles. The slow sales have already become a campaign issue, and the failure of the solar-panel company Solyndra has also drawn intense criticism of the administration's clean-energy subsidies.
In response to the Solyndra bankruptcy, which cost taxpayers about half a billion dollars, the Department of Energy has tightened controls on loans related to electric cars and other fuel-saving technology. In the case of Fisker Automotive, which received the defective A123 batteries, the government froze its loans when the company missed production schedules.
Executives of A123, which is based in Waltham, Mass., say the company has gotten off to a slower start than anticipated because the market for electric cars has failed to grow. The company reported a loss of $125 million in the first quarter of this year, as revenues dropped 40 percent from the year earlier.
''It's been softer than what we and everyone else expected,'' said David Vieau, chief executive of A123.
Yet the major automakers remain committed to electric vehicles so far, and G.M. has given A123 the contract to supply batteries for the Chevrolet Spark, an all-electric minicar due next year.
The government, for its part, recently gave A123 an extra two years to meet production targets at its Michigan factory and earn the full $249 million grant, which is being disbursed in tranches. So far, only about half the money has been given to the company.
In addition to the factory grant, A123 has received about $14 million in Energy Department money for research and development.
The government may have financed the company because ''these guys have some new chemistry, some new ideas,'' rather than the ability to commercialize the product, said Professor Prashant N. Kumta, a materials science expert at the University of Pittsburgh, who began working on lithium-ion batteries in the 1990s.
He said that A123 had been ''a bit of a disappointment'' because it had not put much product into the market.
The Energy Department said it would not comment on the viability of individual companies.
But a spokeswoman, Jen Stutsman, said, ''The market for electrified vehicles is expected to triple by 2017 -- which is why automakers in every part of the world are racing to introduce new models of hybrid and electric vehicles.''
''The investments being made today will help ensure that the jobs that support this rapidly growing industry are created here in the United States,'' she said.
Supporters of the energy programs say it is unrealistic to expect every government-backed company to thrive immediately.
''We should be willing to take on some of the risks for the new energy economy, even if some of these start-ups fail,'' said Representative Diana DeGette of Colorado, the ranking Democrat on the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee that investigated Solyndra.
But Mitt Romney, the presumed Republican nominee for president and former governor of Massachusetts, has attacked subsidies to energy companies as a waste of taxpayer dollars. ''When Mitt Romney is president, government will stop meddling in the marketplace,'' a Romney spokeswoman, Andrea Saul, said on the campaign's Web site.
A123 Systems is a prime example of how a promising venture can bog down in the harsh realities of the automotive marketplace. Founded in 2001, the company has been primarily focused on making lithium-ion battery packs specifically for cars, like the Fisker Karma and a forthcoming all-electric version of the Chevrolet Spark, a minicar made by General Motors.
But the company stumbled when it was forced to recall potentially defective batteries planned for use in the Fisker vehicle. And with the future market for electric cars in question, A123 might not survive solely on batteries for those models.
Instead, A123 is now hoping that the new technology it is unveiling Tuesday, called Nanophosphate EXT, will help it enter new markets. The company says the new electrolyte chemistry eliminates the need for heating and cooling in extreme temperatures. That would avoid the addition of costly and heavy temperature-management equipment and prolong the life of the battery.
The technology could be used to produce batteries for telecommunications equipment, military vehicles and hybrid gas-electric cars that employ start-and-stop engine systems. It also could yield batteries that could be used to replace the millions of ordinary lead-acid batteries in cars currently on the road.
''It's a hedge against the market for electric vehicles,'' Mr. Vieau said.
The company is hoping that the promise of the new technology will help persuade investors to back a $50 million convertible debt offering by the company.
One battery expert said the new technology's extended life span could have an immediate impact on the luxury-car market.
''The car company can advertise that this lithium-ion battery is going to last the life of the vehicle, with no need for replacement,'' said Ahmad A. Pesaran, an engineer at the government's National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Golden, Colo.
Potential automotive customers can test samples later this year, with production scheduled to begin in the first half of 2013.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A123's battery factory in Livonia, Mich., financed in part by a federal grant. (B1)
Prismatic battery cells at the A123 Systems plant in Michigan. The company makes lithium-ion batteries for electric cars.
 Work on an A123 battery for a 2013 model of an all-electric vehicle. Slow sales of electric cars have become a campaign issue. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN McGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); BATTERY MFG (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%)

COMPANY: A123 SYSTEMS INC (92%); SOLYNDRA INC (57%); FISKER AUTOMOTIVE INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3691 STORAGE BATTERIES (92%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



447 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
TENSIONS ON CAMPUS
MIRROR TUNISIA'S TROUBLES
At the secular Manouba University on the outskirts of Tunis, a handful of ultraconservative Salafist students and their busloads of supporters, many from the poor interior of the country, are pitted against an urban faculty with a strong sense that the bare-bones campus with its overgrown paths is no place for prayer rooms or women who veil their faces. The tension offers a window into the larger forces at work in Tunisia today. PAGE A4
MISCUE FOR INDIA AIRLINE
India planned to be only the second country to roll out Boeing's newest jet, the superefficient 787 Dreamliner, on its international routes. But the plane's delayed arrival to a celebration at Indira Gandhi International Airport and a dispute between pilots has thwarted the country's newest effort to star on the international stage. PAGE A6 
LEADING THE POLLS IN MEXICO
Despite a bombardment of ads warning that he will make deals with criminals and news stories alleging his corrupt political dealings, Enrique Pena Nieto remains the odds on favorite to win Mexico's presidential election on July 1, with a comfortable margin in most polls and an air of invincibility. With a few weeks left in the race, Mr. Pena Nieto's lead has narrowed a bit, but the consensus among political analysts and pollsters is that it will be an upset for the ages if he does not win. PAGE A9
National
NORTH DAKOTA CONSIDERS
ELIMINATING PROPERTY TAX
Residents of North Dakota are set to vote on a measure that would abolish property tax. Polls suggest that voters oppose the ballot measure, but the notion is picking up steam in some Republican circles in other states, including North Carolina, Texas and Pennsylvania. PAGE A12
DETAINEES' APPEAL REJECTED
The Supreme Court refused to hear appeals from seven men held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, passing up an opportunity to clarify its last Guantanamo decision, in 2008. That ruling gave prisoners at Guantanamo a ''meaningful opportunity'' to challenge their detentions in court. The court has heard no Guantanamo cases during Mr. Obama's presidency. PAGE A14
New York
N.B.A. OFFICIAL CLAIMS
DISCRIMINATION BY COACH
Kelley Hardwick, an N.B.A. security director, accused Geno Auriemma, the coach of the United States Olympic women's basketball team, of getting her fired after she rebuffed his sexual advances in 2009, according to a lawsuit filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. Mr. Auriemma served as the longtime head coach for the University of Connecticut women's team. PAGE A20
POLICE OFFICER TO BE CHARGED
A police officer will be prosecuted for manslaughter in the shooting death of Ramarley Graham, an 18-year-old who was killed in his bathroom after a team of narcotics officers broke into his Bronx home, three people briefed on the charges said. PAGE A21
Business
WALL STREET ENDS DOWN
AS EUROPEAN WOES LOOM
Market enthusiasm over the Spanish bank bailout did not last even a day, with most European indexes flat and Wall Street closing the session decidedly down amid persistent concerns about Spain's overall economic health and an election approaching in Greece. PAGE B1
UPDATES FROM APPLE
Apple introduced a new version of its mobile operating system for iPhones and iPads that will bring a host of new features, including maps that let users soar over a three-dimensional rendering of a city. Apple also overhauled its line of Mac computers. PAGE B3
COFFEE MUGS MADE IN U.S.
To manufacture a new line of coffee mugs, Starbucks is bringing business back to the United States and contracting with a tiny company in an Ohio town that once considered itself the pottery capital of the nation -- a sign of outsourcing in reverse. PAGE B1
Obituaries
PHILLIP V. TOBIAS, 86
He was a South African paleoanthropologist who made meticulous analyses of fossil remains that helped identify extinct species of apelike creatures related to humans, and who boldly spoke out against apartheid. PAGE A19
Sports
ACCUSER TESTIFIES
AT START OF SANDUSKY TRIAL
On the opening day of Jerry Sandusky's trial, one of his accusers stepped into public for the first time, taking the witness stand at the Centre County Courthouse and offering several hours of methodically disturbing, often graphic accounts of sexual assault at the hands of the man who for decades had been Joe Paterno's top lieutenant at Penn State. Sandusky, 68, is charged with more than 50 criminal counts of abusing 10 boys over a number of years. PAGE B9
FRANCE TIES ENGLAND
On a day of blistering heat and searing chances from France, England desperately held on for a 1-1 draw in the opening soccer match for both teams at the European Championships. England managed only three shots to 19 for France, but it scored first and turtled into a defensive shell to withstand the withering French attack. PAGE B10
Arts
A BRAZEN NEW TITLE
THAT'S NOT MEANT FOR MOM
The title of the Irish novelist Colm Toibin's nonfiction book, ''New Ways to Kill Your Mother: Writers and Their Families,'' is brazen. The book's essential point, driven home in an essay about all the motherless heroes and heroines in the novels of Henry James and Jane Austen, is that ''mothers get in the way of fiction; they take up the space that is better filled by indecision, by hope, by the slow growth of a personality.'' To put it another way: ''The novel is a ripe form for orphans.'' PAGE C1
INDIAN DANCE AT THE THEATER
It is a feature of traditional Indian dance that a solo performer, with musicians, can hold the attention of an audience for an evening's entire recital. In ballet, few ballerina solos last longer than two minutes. Ramya Ramnarayan danced for two hours, leaving the stage only briefly in the pauses between her five numbers. Dance Review, Alastair Macaulay. PAGE C2
ENDING WITH MAHLER
Mahler's Ninth Symphony is a brave undertaking for a smallish band. The New Jersey Symphony Orchestra ended its season, its second with Jacques Lacombe as music director, with performances of that work. Music Review, James R. Oestreich. PAGE C3
Science
DOUBT BY THE TEASPOONFUL
OVER ARTIFICIAL SWEETENERS
Although many people have nagging worries about artificial sweeteners, they still use mountains of them to avoid sugar and calories. The scientific world is also a dichotomy of conclusions. For any of the sweeteners, one can as easily find a study that offers reassuring analysis of safety as one that enumerates potential alarming effects. PAGE D1
CASH TO AVOID RUSH HOUR
Stanford University has deployed a system that allows people driving to the traffic-clogged campus to enter a daily lottery, with a chance to win up to an extra $50 in their paycheck by shifting their commute to off-peak times. PAGE D1
Op-Ed
DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23
JOE NOCERA PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); POLITICS (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); BASKETBALL (85%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); WOMEN (76%); AIRLINES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); MANSLAUGHTER (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); BALLOTS (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); REFERENDUMS (66%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (60%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (57%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (71%); BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) TUNISIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



448 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: How Not To Solve A Crisis

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
There is a delicious moment in the HBO film ''Too Big to Fail'' when Christine Lagarde, then France's minister of finance, calls Hank Paulson, the U.S. Treasury secretary. It's September 2008, and Lehman Brothers has just imploded after the government refused to bail it out. Panic is in the air.
''Hank,'' she scolds him. ''How could you let Lehman fail? What on earth were you thinking?'' She pleads with him to save A.I.G., which appears to be the next domino poised to fall. ''This is not just an American problem,'' she concludes. (Note: I served as a consultant on the movie.) 
Oh, the irony! Here we are, more than three-and-a-half years later, during which time the euro zone has repeatedly flirted with financial catastrophe. Lagarde now leads the International Monetary Fund, which exists, in large part, to help countries survive such catastrophes. Yet neither she nor anyone else in Europe has been willing or able to do more than use Band-Aids to stanch the bleeding.
A euro-zone meltdown, if it comes to that, would be devastating to the already battered economies of Europe, leading to widespread credit contraction, mass unemployment and depressed economies across the Continent. But it would undoubtedly take a toll on our economy as well -- and it would be a huge blow to President Obama's re-election prospects. To paraphrase Lagarde, this is not just a European problem.
The American and European responses to their respective financial crises are studies in contrast. The Bush administration and the Federal Reserve took an ''all-hands-on-deck'' approach: not just saving A.I.G. and recapitalizing the banks, but buying billions of dollars worth of subprime mortgages that were poisoning the banking system, and guaranteeing virtually all bank debt. Say what you will about the moral hazard that comes with bailing out too-big-to-fail banks, the strategy worked. By announcing to the world that it would serve as the lender of last resort, the federal government prevented a banking collapse, and, quite possibly, a depression.
In the euro zone, there is no lender of last resort. Germany, which has the money and the clout to play that role, refuses to. The European Central Bank is constrained by politics and its own narrow sense of mission. Just last week, it declined to lower interest rates -- in no small part, said its president, Mario Draghi, because ''I don't think it would be right for monetary policy to fill other institutions' lack of action.''
Throughout the euro crisis, the response of Europe's political leaders has been tepid, reluctant and unconvincing. They are willing to kick the can -- and no more. The decision over the weekend to lend Spain $125 billion to shore up its tottering banking system is typical. For one thing, it's unlikely to be enough. For another, it will do very little to improve Spain's underlying problems -- including 25 percent unemployment, an economy in steep decline and a growing federal deficit that may require its own bailout. You wonder why people are already speculating that Italy will be next? Because there is no investor confidence that the problem has been solved. Why would there be? It hasn't been.
One critical difference between America and the euro zone is that we have one government and they have 17. For all our fractious politics, in September 2008, our government's financial officials spoke with one voice. In Europe, the politicians and finance ministers in each of the 17 countries that make up the euro zone have to deal with their own nations' political dynamics.
The Germans are sick of being asked to save what they see as the ne'er-do-well Greeks. The Greeks are just as sick of the austerity programs that the Germans have imposed on them. On Sunday, Greece will go to the polls and could well elect a government that will renege on the deals it cut to get bailouts and exit the euro zone. France's new president, Francoise Hollande, said during his campaign that he would reopen the fiscal treaty that European governments agreed to in March because it didn't do enough to promote growth.
And on and on. It is often said that Europe needs tighter political and fiscal integration to save the euro, but there is no political will for that, and likely never will be. Sovereign governments, it turns out, do not willingly cede their own sovereignty. If the euro zone is to be saved, Europe's voters will have to save it. Everything they've done in the past year suggests that they would rather risk financial disaster than be wedded to countries with mores and politics very different from their own. The reason Europe lacks a lender of last resort is that its citizens don't want one.
As for us, all we can do is watch and wait and hope for the best. But don't be too surprised if President Obama calls Angela Merkel someday soon and asks: ''How could you let the euro fail? What on earth were you thinking?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO ZONE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (88%); EURO (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); EURO CRISIS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); POLITICS (69%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); INTEREST RATES (62%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (73%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (62%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (73%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE LAGARDE (89%); HENRY PAULSON (88%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (79%)

TITLE: Too Big to Fail (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



449 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: Debate's Main Quarrel: If Rangel Should Retire

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
Congressman Charles B. Rangel, participating in the first debate of his primary campaign, looked around at his four Democratic challengers on Monday and decided that none of them had made a very good case about why they should replace him.
''I look at it as though they're applying for my job,'' he said. ''We all have put applications in, and if you take a look at our backgrounds and try to figure out what's good for this country at this time -- who has produced, and not who would like to produce -- I kind of think that the job would be weighted in my favor.'' 
Mr. Rangel's comments came at the end of a debate in which the five candidates expressed similar views on almost every topic, including the economy, foreign policy, immigration and health care. The only fundamental matter on which the candidates disagreed was whether Mr. Rangel should retire. On this, four were in favor, and one was opposed.
Mr. Rangel's most prominent challenger, State Senator Adriano Espaillat, said in his closing remarks, ''I think that what happens very often is one feels, when they've been on the job too long, that there's just absolutely nobody on the planet that can do as good a job as you can. I think that's fundamentally flawed.'' He added, ''I think there's lots of folks, young people, that have talents, sometimes hidden talents, that want to do a good job.''
Mr. Rangel, who turned 82 on Monday, is facing what many political observers consider one of his toughest re-election campaigns in four decades in Congress. Besides the ethical issues that have damaged his reputation, he has been slowed in recent months by serious back problems, which have required him to walk with a cane. In addition, the boundaries of his district have been redrawn, now stretching from Harlem to the northwest Bronx, and it is now majority Latino.
Mr. Espaillat, who was born in the Dominican Republic, is hoping to use that to his advantage, rallying Latino voters around the goal of electing the first Dominican-American member of Congress. The other three candidates -- Clyde Williams, a former adviser to former President Bill Clinton; Joyce Johnson, a former Seagram executive; and Craig Schley, a former model who once worked as an intern in Mr. Rangel's office -- have also argued that it is time for a change in the district. The primary will be held June 26.
The tone of the campaign, however, has been muted, with the four challengers largely avoiding the subject of Mr. Rangel's ethical problems -- or leaving it to their minions or surrogates to raise. At the beginning of Monday's debate, the moderator asked Mr. Rangel about a recent article in The New York Times, in which he charged that the House committee that investigated him on the ethics issues was biased, denying him of due process.
Mr. Rangel said that the committee members had admitted violating Constitutional rights and were ''now under investigation themselves,'' but that he had moved on.
As the moderator proceeded to the next question, Mr. Espaillat's spokesman sent out a Twitter message: ''1st question to @cbrangel about his ethics censure.''
In some ways, the most dramatic confrontation of the evening took place before the debate started. A dozen of Mr. Rangel's supporters had assembled, holding signs, outside the public television studio where the debate was to be taped, in order to greet the congressman when he arrived. He stopped to talk with them and with the reporters who had gathered. When Mr. Espaillat arrived with his aides, Mr. Rangel tried to engage him, but Mr. Espaillat brushed him off, saying, ''The debate is in here, congressman,'' as he went through the door.
As Mr. Rangel's supporters said, ''Ohhh,'' like a crowd hoping for a brawl, Mr. Rangel simply smiled and said, ''Well, that's not the guy that I helped become senator, by a long stretch.''
Later, as the debate wore on, with the answers largely similar, the only tension was provided by an occasional three-toned chirrup, announcing the arrival of an e-mail to a device located somewhere onstage near Mr. Rangel and Mr. Espaillat. From where a reporter sat, it was clear that the sound came from an iPad under Mr. Rangel's chair. But a member of the television crew first ventured onstage and asked Mr. Rangel and Mr. Espaillat to check their pockets, which they did for several confused seconds, finding nothing. Only later did one of Mr. Rangel's staff members spot the iPad and dash onstage to retrieve it.
The debate was sponsored by the League of Women Voters of the City of New York and took place at the Midtown studio of the Manhattan Neighborhood Network, a public access cable network.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Charles B. Rangel and two of his challengers, State Senator Adriano Espaillat and Joyce Johnson, on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); ETHICS (73%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (93%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



450 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 349 words

HEADLINE: By Bus, Romney To Visit Six States That Voted Blue

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
Since effectively nailing down the Republican nomination for president in mid-April, Mitt Romney has had to balance his time on campaign trail with jaunts to numerous fund-raising events across the country. 
But that is to change Friday, when Mr. Romney trades his jet for a bus for five days of barnstorming across six states that has all the appearances of an unofficial kickoff to the general election.
He will visit small towns and meet with families and business owners, the Romney campaign announced Monday, to highlight the case that President Obama's economic policies fail everyday Americans. The trip comes on the heels of a scorching exchange between the candidates on jobs, with Mr. Romney calling Mr. Obama ''out of touch'' for saying private-sector job growth was adequate, and Obama's surrogates claiming that Mr. Romney favored laying off firefighters and teachers.
In announcing the tour, the Romney campaign said: ''Too many American families have experienced a lost job, faced foreclosure, or been forced to spend their kids' college savings just to make ends meet. These are not statistics - these are our fellow Americans.''
The itinerary begins at the same New Hampshire farm where Mr. Romney first announced his candidacy and continues through Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin, Iowa and Michigan.
Mr. Obama won all of the states in 2008, most comfortably, but the Romney campaign believes they can be battlegrounds this year - a more aggressive map of Republican opportunities than many analysts have drawn.
In Wisconsin, Gov. Scott Walker's survival of a recall election last week has given Republican strategists hope the state can be in play in November. In Michigan, Mr. Romney's native state, polls show a tightening of the race despite Mr. Romney's opposition to Mr. Obama's popular rescue of the auto industry.
From Scamman Farm in Stratham, N.H., Mr. Romney - who has been taking weekends off -- will roll through Saturday and Sunday, making several stops a day, winding up in Michigan on Tuesday.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); FORECLOSURE (67%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); SCOTT WALKER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



451 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Vouchers Unspoken, Romney Hails School Choice

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
''Voucher'' is a fighting word in education, so it may be understandable that when Mitt Romney speaks about improving the nation's schools, he never uses that term.
Nonetheless, as president, Mr. Romney would seek to overhaul the federal government's largest programs for kindergarten through 12th grade into a voucherlike system. Students would be free to use $25 billion in federal money to attend any school they choose -- public, charter, online or private -- a system, he said, that would introduce marketplace dynamics into education to drive academic gains.
His plans, presented in a recent speech at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, represent a broad overhaul of current policy, one that reverses a quarter-century trend, under Republican and Democratic presidents, of concentrating responsibility for school quality at the federal level.
''I will expand parental choice in an unprecedented way,'' Mr. Romney said, adding that families' freedom to vote with their feet ''will hold schools responsible for results.'' 
His proposals are the clearest sign yet that Republicans have executed an about-face from the education policies of President George W. Bush, whose signature domestic initiative, the No Child Left Behind law of 2002, required uniform state testing and imposed penalties on schools that failed to progress.
Now Mr. Romney is taking his party back to its ideological roots by emphasizing a lesser role for Washington, replacing top-down mandates with a belief in market mechanisms. It is a change driven in part by Tea Party disdain of the federal government. In the Republican presidential nominating fight, candidates competed in calling to shut the Education Department.
Mr. Romney, who never went that far, also seems hemmed in politically by the fact that President Obama promotes many solutions that were once Republican talking points, including charter schools and teacher evaluations tied to test scores.
''There's not much left for Republicans to be distinctive about,'' said Chester E. Finn, Jr., president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, an education policy group. ''The one line the Obama folks have refused to cross is the voucher line'' -- that is, allowing students to use taxpayer money to attend any certified school, even a private school.
Specifically, Mr. Romney proposed to change federal payments made to schools with large numbers of poor and disabled students into an individual entitlement. Students would take a share of the $25 billion in two federal programs to the school of their choice.
He would also extract the federal government from intervening to turn around the lowest performing schools, which has been a chief focus of the Obama administration. Instead, to drive improvement, Mr. Romney would have schools compete for students in a more market-based approach to quality.
''This is the best motive to reform there will ever be -- if you give parents the ability to vote with their feet,'' said Tom Luna, Idaho's superintendent of schools, who is an adviser to Mr. Romney.
But there is limited evidence in the real world of schools improving much as they compete for students, according to education experts.
One notable skeptic is Margaret Spellings, a former education secretary under Mr. Bush, who this year was an informal adviser to Mr. Romney. She said she withdrew once the candidate rejected strong federal accountability measures.
''I have long supported and defended and believe in a muscular federal role on school accountability,'' Ms. Spellings said. ''Vouchers and choice as the drivers of accountability -- obviously that's untried and untested.''
Although offering economically disadvantaged children an escape from a failing neighborhood school may be a matter of fairness, Mr. Romney's argument is broader: choice, he said, will promote competition for students and, like a rising tide, lift all schools.
One recent study of a Florida program offering private school vouchers to low-income families found that test scores at public schools, faced with competition, went up.
But critics say that the improvements are small, and that the idea is shaped by ideology more than evidence. ''Romney is on poor empirical ground in making a claim based on competitive effects,'' said Christopher Lubienski, an education professor at the University of Illinois.
James Kvaal, the policy director of the Obama campaign, accused Mr. Romney of seeking to ''stop the clock on decades of reform by no longer insisting action be taken when a school has been struggling for years.''
Advocates for vouchers say they will have a larger impact if they become more widespread.
One of Mr. Romney's ideas for increasing students' choices seems to contradict an anti-Washington emphasis: giving poor students the freedom to choose a public school outside their district.
District boundaries have long been sacrosanct. They prevent urban students, for example, from enrolling in suburban schools that typically have higher-income families and sometimes more lavish budgets.
Calls for open enrollment across districts are usually the province of liberal groups, said Kevin Carey, director of education policy at the New America Foundation, a nonpartisan research group. ''For the federal government to require districts to open up their boundaries would be a level of federal intrusion into the affairs of states and local districts far beyond anything'' in current law, Mr. Carey said.
Mr. Romney's policy seems closely inspired by a pro-voucher report issued in February by the conservative Hoover Institution. Five of eight members of a task force that produced the report are among the 19 education advisers the Romney campaign named last month.
Once thought to be moribund, the voucher movement was revived by gains Republicans made in the 2010 midterm elections. Fourteen states since then have introduced or expanded private school vouchers, according to the Friedman Foundation for Educational Choice.
The money for the vouchers would come from two federal programs that Mr. Romney would overhaul that target students deemed in need of extra support: Title 1, for economically disadvantaged students; and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. Currently the money from both programs, the largest K-12 initiatives in the Education Department, is awarded to states and districts based on federal formulas.
Grover J. Whitehurst, a Romney adviser, said that remaking the programs into individual payments that follow the student -- he used the metaphor of a student's backpack -- could attract other streams of education dollars.
''If you connected state funding with federal funding, then you're talking about a backpack with enough money in it to really empower choice,'' said Mr. Whitehurst, director of education policy at the Brookings Institution. ''The idea would be the federal Title 1 funds would allow states that want to move in this direction to do so, and if they did so, all of a sudden it's a game changer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mitt Romney, above, at a charter school in Philadelphia in May. His proposal would allow students to use billions in federal money to attend any school they choose -- public, charter or private -- ending federal efforts like President George W. Bush's No Child Left Behind law of 2002. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK MAKELA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SCHOOL CHOICE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (85%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); PARENTING (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



452 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: An Election Half Empty

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
It was a statement of such unqualified certainty that Jeb Bush made it pretty much in passing, as if it required no elaboration, accommodated no dissent and was the obvious starting point from which all political discussion should flow.
''We're in decline,'' he said. Boom. Just like that. Meaning America. And suggesting that other D words -- dip, downturn, even depression -- didn't sufficiently reflect reality, perhaps because they connote temporary fluctuations instead of an inexorable arc.
Bush, the former governor of Florida, was speaking on Monday morning to journalists at a Bloomberg View breakfast in Manhattan, and he was displaying the kind of candor you seldom get from someone still in, or angling for, elective office. 
He almost certainly doesn't harbor any secret desire to be the Republicans' vice-presidential nominee. If he did, he wouldn't have slammed the no-compromises orthodoxies of his own party. (He added that Democrats are comparably rigid.) He wouldn't have spoken up for the occasional wisdom of tax increases or for an approach to immigration more progressive than the one Mitt Romney has proposed.
And he wouldn't have rendered such an unequivocal verdict on the country's situation.
''We're in very difficult times right now, very different times than we've been,'' he told us, sounding at first like any other politician, then segueing to a darker place. ''We're in decline.'' He added that ''that distinguishes us -- where we are'' from past moments in history.
I can't imagine Romney or President Obama uttering a statement so unforgiving. But I do get the sense that they, along with much of the electorate, feel at least somewhat the same way.
And I think that Bush opened a window into the most striking aspect of the 2012 presidential election: the degree to which pessimism has supplanted optimism in a country usually inclined toward the latter and predisposed toward politicians fluent in the language of uplift.
Where's the uplift this time around?
Romney's not deft at it, and is largely content to frame the entire contest in terms of President Obama's economic stewardship and whether voters dare wager four more years on it. That approach preys on anxiety more than it plays to aspirations, and some of his fellow Republicans rightly question the wisdom of it.
''I don't think we win if it's just about a referendum on Barack Obama,'' said Scott Walker, the Wisconsin governor, on CBS's ''Face the Nation'' on Sunday. He articulated the wish that Romney ''goes big and he goes bold'' from here on out.
On ''Fox News Sunday,'' Mitch Daniels, the Indiana governor, said: ''The American people, I think, will rightly demand to know something more than he's not President Obama.''
''He better have an affirmative, constructive message, one of hope,'' Daniels added.
These bits of advice for Romney amounted to Republicans' gentler version of the upbraiding that Democrats gave President Obama a few weeks ago, when his campaign seemed poised to be all Bain all the time, a steady blast of negativity from a president who once positioned himself as a transformational figure -- and a transcendent one.
Now he finds himself mired in a tedious, dispiriting back-and-forth. Romney charges that the economy is worse than Obama is willing to acknowledge; Obama says it's not as bad as Romney maintains and a whole lot better than it might have been.
They squabble over pejoratives. They tussle over gradations of distress. And while they pay too little attention to grand visions, their aides work overtime on gaffe patrol. Pettiness is pessimism's flower.
Both Obama and Romney are held back by budgetary and political dynamics that stand in the way of many sweeping initiatives. And both understand that there are very real limits to America's agency in its own short-term economic fate, limits that Jeb Bush, liberated from the calculations of a candidacy, described bluntly Monday morning.
''I think we're in a period here for the next year of pretty slow growth,'' he said. ''I don't see how we get out, notwithstanding who's president.''
Although many others might have, he assigned no culpability to the previous occupant of the White House, his older brother. And he added, ''We've got major headwinds with Europe and a slowdown for Asia as well.''
Right now there's a haplessness to the country's station. Combine the size of our debt with the scope of our problems and it's hard not to conclude that we've turned some corner or hit some inflection point or arrived at some crossroads: choose your phrase. It's definitely not morning in America.
And no one should lie to us about that. We're in these dusky straits because we ignored hard truths.
But a certain measure of optimism isn't foolish. It sustains and rallies people. It charts the path toward solutions. It's what a leader must find and persuasively project. And there's a scary dearth of it in this campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); TAX LAW (66%); REFERENDUMS (62%); IMMIGRATION (52%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); SCOTT WALKER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



453 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: At Petersen, Cars That Cheated the Wind, if Not Always Gracefully

BYLINE: PHIL PATTON


HIGHLIGHT: This weekend, the Los Angeles museum inaugurates "Aerodynamics: From Art to Science," a survey of sleek, if not necessarily beautiful, automotive designs. 

 BODY:
Bullet- and torpedo-shaped cars have been around almost as long as the automobile. Instinctively, early car designers gravitated toward shapes that would make their cars move more rapidly through the air.
That tendency is surveyed in "Aerodynamics: From Art to Science," an exhibition opening at the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles on Saturday.
Leslie Kendall, the museum's curator, said in a telephone interview that early designers derived inspiration not from artillery but from "aiming their eyes at the sky" and observing aircraft. One result was the oddball 1928 Martin Aerodynamic, the oldest car in the show, borrowed from the Lane Motor Museum in Nashville, one of three prototypes made by James V. Martin.
Martin was one of the aforementioned designers who looked to aircraft, Mr. Kendall said. "They found shapes they believed would make terrestrial vehicles move more rapidly and smoothly," he said. The Martin Aerodynamic adapted ideas from the aero pioneer Paul Jaray.
As the show's name suggests, scientific rigor and aesthetic considerations did not always cohabit. There was much art and little science, for instance, in the 1938 Delahaye on display. The French coach-built car is, of course, gorgeous, "but I have a hunch it never went anywhere near a wind tunnel," Mr. Kendall said. "Streamline is not always aerodynamic."
On the other hand, the 1935 Chrysler and De Soto Airflow radically upended the aesthetic standards of their time, and were consequently unpopular. It had a low coefficient of drag, "but its stubby front was off-putting, and the buyers stayed away in droves," Mr. Kendall said. The similar but more attractive Lincoln Zephyr of 1936 found much greater favor with the public.
After the arrival of high-speed highways in the '30s, streamlining led to the gradual coalescence of the shape of the automobile into a single, unified form. Projecting elements, like separated headlights, trunk and fenders, were gradually integrated into a whole, Mr. Kendall said.
The Petersen's own collection affords examples of the Tatra 87 of 1938 and sleek Fiats and Citrons. BMW lent its 328 Mille Miglia Kamm Tail from 1940, which for Mr. Kendall represented the idea of seeking aero efficiency in motorsports.
"Instead of increasing the power of an engine, why not make the car move with less energy?" the engineers reasoned, according to Mr. Kendall. But the rear end, clipped to meet with the precepts of the aerodynamicist Dr. Wunibald Kamm, was not necessarily attractive.
Art and science are well-represented in the 1955 Ghia Streamline X concept, nicknamed Gilda when it was first shown, after the title character in a 1946 film starring Rita Hayworth. The car, a stunner belonging to the collectors Scott Grundfor and Kathleen Redmond, suggests a spaceship from some unmade Fellini science fiction film, starring Sophia Loren.
The 1969 Dodge Charger Daytona muscle car, with its huge, high wing and pointed nose cone, brought legitimate aero to muscle cars, Mr. Kendall said, but it was not a vehicle to drive to the corner for a quart of milk.
Ford's 1979 Probe 1 concept was one of a series of cars that led to the popular aero look seen in the 1983 Thunderbird (Mr. Kendall said he would have included the aero 'bird, but had trouble finding a good example) and then the breakthrough 1986 Taurus.
Also included in the survey is a scale model of perhaps the ultimate aero car, created in 2005 by students at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, with a minuscule .075 coefficient of drag.
Aerodynamics are important not just for speed and efficiency, Mr. Kendall said, but for keeping dirt and moisture from building up on vehicles and to reduce interior noise.
Stricter fuel-economy standards make aerodynamic science all the more important, he added. Designers and engineers spend hours with aerodynamic experts in the wind tunnel. Tiny tweaks to side mirrors or taillight shapes can lower a car's coefficient of drag, a critical number in the marketing of passenger cars. But designers have noted that strange interactions can occur among elements of the car body in the wind tunnel. Many contend that streamlining at the extremes is not so much science as it is a black art.
As science devises new ways to cheat the wind, however, Mr. Kendall says there would always be room for the artist.
"When you get in a car you wrap yourself in that shape," he said. "It becomes you. It is your outermost layer of clothes. You have to ask, is this how you want to express yourself?"
The exhibition runs through May 27, 2013, in the museum's Gordon R. Howard Gallery.

        
Fires Prompt Investigations of 177,000 Chevy Cruzes and 100,000 Jeep Wranglers
        
Ram 1500: A Less Thirsty Big Rig
        
Monday Motorsports: McLaren's Button and Hamilton Put Red Bull on Notice
        
Chrysler Readies New Mopar Mods for Chicago Auto Show
        
Megabytes From the Motor Show

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (90%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE FICTION & FANTASY FILMS (60%) bmw; Chrysler; Daytona; De Soto; delahaye; Dodge; Ghia; Petersen Automotive Museum; Wunibald Kamm; Automobiles; Collectors and Collections; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Chrysler Group LLC; Ford Motor Company; Swiss Federal Institute of Technology; Los Angeles (Calif); Ford Motor Company|F|NYSE; Collectible Cars; Design

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Chrysler Group LLC; Ford Motor Company; Petersen Automotive Museum; Swiss Federal Institute of Technology

TICKER: Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



454 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: In a Time to Shine, India Can't Get Off the Ground

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The delayed arrival of the Boeing 787 Dreamliner has hurt India in its latest effort to shine. 

 BODY:
"Like China, India has long been eager to showcase the best features of its fast-growing economy on the international stage," Gardiner Harris writes in The New York Times. "But whenever it gets a chance to shine, something almost invariably goes wrong." 
"The latest example involves India's plans to be only the second country to roll out Boeing's newest jet, the superefficient 787 Dreamliner, on its international routes," Mr. Harris writes. Instead of being "the guest of honor at a celebration at Indira Gandhi International Airport here," however, India's Dreamliner "has been sitting on a tarmac in Everett, Wash., waiting for a formal invitation," he writes. 
And even when the plane does arrive, which could be as early as next week, any celebration is likely to be muted because of a noisy dispute between pilots at the state-owned airline, Air India, that has led to a strike and a shutdown of some international flights. 
Indians are deeply status conscious - the country's ancient caste system includes thousands of categories - so the battle within the pilot ranks at Air India is no small matter to them. But the failure to resolve these issues before the plane's arrival reflects other vexing contradictions in India: a near-paralysis in government decision making, as well as a continued insistence that the government retain control over important national industries. This unfortunate combination of control and indecision has crippled its coal mining, power generation, oil and agriculture sectors. And now Air India. 
Read the full article.

        
Indian State Carrier Fined $80,000 by American Authorities
        
Image of the Day: June 11
        
Should Siachen be Demilitarized?
        
Don't Count India Out Just Yet
        
India's Dal: Increasingly, Not From India

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AIRPORTS (76%); TRENDS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); AGRICULTURE (50%); COAL MINING (50%) Air India; Boeing Dreamliner; Civil Aviation; India; Gandhi, Indira; Airlines and Airplanes; Economic Conditions and Trends; Boeing Company; Everett (Wash); France; Washington (State); Boeing Company|BA|NYSE

COMPANY: NATIONAL AVIATION CO OF INDIA LTD (AIR INDIA) (92%); BOEING CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Air India; Boeing Company

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%) Boeing Company; BA; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%)

PERSON: Gandhi, Indira

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (73%) Everett (Wash); France; Washington (State)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



455 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Opinion Report: Serial Bailouts

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page. 

 BODY:
On Monday morning, wrecking crews began demolishing the Great Works Dam, the first step in a multiyear effort to restore ancient fish runs on the Penobscot River.
A Libyan militia has detained four officials of the International Criminal Court since Thursday on spurious charges.
UnitedHealthcare announced this week that it would keep some of the popular benefits required by the federal health care law even if the Supreme Court strikes it down.
Serial bailouts, piecemeal plans and one-size-fits-all austerity will not resolve the European debt crisis.

        
Shooting at Laws in Ads (Literally)
        
'Washington Doesn't Get Us'
        
Healthcare: What Might Have Been
        
Opinion Report: Crack and Cocaine
        
Opinion Report: Santorum Drops Out

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (87%); EURO CRISIS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); COCAINE (65%) European debt crisis; health care reform; Libya

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



456 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 473 words

HEADLINE: Brett Anderson, New Orleans Food Writer, Is Laid Off

BYLINE: JULIA MOSKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The restaurant critic is one of 202 employees let go by the New Orleans Times-Picayune on Tuesday. 

 BODY:
5:53 p.m. | Updated 
Brett Anderson, the award-winning restaurant critic and food writer, was among more than 200 employees laid off on Tuesday by The Times-Picayune of New Orleans. He confirmed the decision in an interview, saying that New Orleans and its food community would remain central to his work as a writer.
Just last month, Mr. Anderson was awarded a prestigious fellowship to the Nieman Foundation for Journalism, based on his work at The Times-Picayune, where he has worked since 2000.
He assiduously covered the progress of the city's food businesses after Hurricane Katrina, waiting three years to write reviews while chronicling the efforts to put the city's famous food scene back on its feet. Later, he wrote extensively about the effects of the BP oil spill on the local food supply.
Mr. Anderson, 41, said he was told that the reason for the dismissal was the fellowship, which would have taken him away from the newsroom for most of 2013. But he had applied to the program with the full support of the same editors who dismissed him Tuesday. "It was always my intention to return, and everyone knew that," he said.
The news spread swiftly over Twitter on Tuesday morning; Mr. Anderson has a large following among American food lovers.
"Brett is not just anybody, he's a serious food writer with a nationwide reputation in a town whose whole economy is built around the hospitality industry," said Anthony Bourdain, the chef, author and TV personality, who has traveled frequently to New Orleans for two years as a writer for the HBO series "Treme." 
New Orleans is among the most influential food cities in the nation, with its unique brew of Creole, Southern, Cajun, French and Spanish influences.
The New Orleans chef Donald Link, whose restaurants Cochon and Herbsaint have helped redefine the modern cuisine of the city, said: "I disagree wholeheartedly with the decision to lose somebody like Brett. He brought huge credibility to our city by the way he wrote and talked about what we have been trying to do here, giving a new framework to traditional food."
Some of those laid off were offered a new job within the Nola Media Group, but Mr. Anderson said he was not among them. That newly formed company, owned by the giant Advance Publications, will publish The Times-Picayune and its Web site starting in the fall. The new media group previously announced that the newspaper would be published only three days a week.
During his fellowship, Mr. Anderson plans to write about the role of food and restaurants in communities hit by disasters, and about the role of New Orleans in the rise of the celebrity chef culture. That work will not appear in The Times-Picayune.

        
Dining in the 504
        
Five Beans for Stella! (Exclamation Point Not Ours)
        
Our Readers See Stars, and Ask Why
        
Weekend Fare
        
A Bit of Old New Orleans in Williamsburg

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); WRITERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); HURRICANES (70%); OIL SPILLS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%) Brett Anderson; New Orleans; restaurant critics; Times-Picayune; Anderson, Brett; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Restaurants; Times-Picayune (New Orleans)

ORGANIZATION: Times-Picayune (New Orleans)

PERSON: Anderson, Brett

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



457 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: For One Day, Formula One Parks at the Crossroads of the World

BYLINE: NICK KURCZEWSKI


HIGHLIGHT: A racecar from the Sauber team and drivers from the Formula One series came to Midtown on Monday to promote coming race dates in the United States. 

 BODY:
Short of strumming a guitar in one's underwear, there are few fail-proof ways to compel passers-by to stop and gawk in Times Square. Formula One, the international open-wheel racing series, gave it a shot Monday, bringing a white and gray racecar from the Sauber team to promote coming races in the United States.
The Sauber test car was positioned behind velvet ropes at the intersection of Broadway and 43rd Street. The United States Grand Prix, scheduled for Nov. 16-18 at the Circuit of the Americas, a purpose-built racing facility nearing completion near Austin, Tex., will be the first Formula One race in the United States since 2007. Across the Hudson River in Weehawken, N.J., a media event was being held to hype the Grand Prix of America, a race tentatively scheduled for next June that would use the Big Apple as a backdrop, with 3.2 miles of New Jersey streets serving as the circuit.
Perhaps in a bid to emphasize the exclusivity and large budgets involved in Formula One -- top teams spend in excess of $100 million per season -- the Sauber car was kept behind a velvet rope, with two guards positioned on either side of the display. Despite the presence of the multimillion-dollar bauble, the scene in Times Square was strangely subdued. Small clusters of onlookers snapped photos on mobile phones, positioning themselves as close as possible to the velvet rope.
"I'm a fan of old-school things, but this is definitely unique," Ricky Padin of New York said. Though unfamiliar with Formula One, Mr. Padin was enthusiastic about the prospect of attending the Grand Prix of America. "Definitely, if I can afford it," he said.
Ticket prices for the race have not been announced, but the event's projected cost was an issue also identified by Martin McFadden of Rockland, N.Y. "It's an expensive hobby," he said. A lifelong Formula One fan who is originally from Scotland, Mr. McFadden said he often attended the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal. "The way the economy is at the moment, it's an expensive sport to follow," he said. He also questioned whether a location within New York City might have been more suitable than a street course across the Hudson.
Though Sebastian Vettel, the 2010 and 2011 champion, was peppered with technical questions by David Letterman on Monday night, Formula One keeps a low profile in the United States, especially compared with the Nascar Sprint Cup series. Some pundits attribute Formula One's limited appeal among Americans to poor race locations. Races were run through 2007 at a circuit on the grounds of Indianapolis Motor Speedway, and the championship was held in a parking lot at the Caesar's Palace casino in Las Vegas. But judging from a roundtable discussion with current drivers on Monday, the custom-built Austin track, combined with the prospect of a New York-area grand prix, has impressed Formula One teams and drivers.
"All the eggs are in the basket now. This is the first time F1 has visited the U.S. with a purpose-built track," Paul di Resta, a driver for the Sahara Force India team, said about the Austin circuit at an off-site press event in Midtown. Nico Hulkenberg, his Force India teammate, said he would have to try Texas barbecue. As the only American driver currently in Formula One, Alexander Rossi, a reserve driver for the Caterham team, said Austin's mix of music, technology and culture would create an ideal backdrop for the inaugural race. The Sauber driver Sergio Perez, fresh from a podium finish on Sunday in Montreal, said he would welcome a more relaxed atmosphere and more fan interaction.
As for the New York race, Tom Webb, head of communications for Caterham, said it could become one of the most "iconic" races on the calendar.
"Being truly global, if we can get it right here," he said, "there is no reason we shouldn't be sitting here in 50 years time looking back at all the fantastic grand prix of New York."

        
Wheelies: The Dismissal Edition
        
Monday Motorsports: In Bahrain, Sebastian Vettel Rediscovers Winning Form
        
Sebatian Vettel Infiniti FX to Enter Limited Production
        
Wheelies: The Monza-on-Hudson Edition
        
Monday Motorsports: Joey Logano Sets Blistering Pace at Repaved Pocono

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (90%); FORMULA ONE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); NASCAR RACING (72%); BUDGETS (72%); TICKET SALES (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (64%); GAMING (61%) Formula One; Grand Prix of America; Infiniti; New Jersey; Romain Grosjean; Sauber; Sebastian Vettel; Sergio Perez; Times Square; Automobile Racing; Automobiles; Austin (Tex); Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC); entertainment; Motorsports

ORGANIZATION: Formula One

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (52%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (52%) Austin (Tex); Times Square and 42nd Street (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



458 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: S.B.A. Administrator Responds

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: Karen Mills talks about what the S.B.A. is doing to provide working capital to small businesses. 

 BODY:
In a post published Tuesday morning, Ami Kassar suggested some ways that the Small Business Administration could do more to provide working capital to small businesses. Karen Mills, administrator of the S.B.A., requested an opportunity to respond, which we are happy to provide. Here is Ms. Mills's response:
A post in today's You're the Boss blog talks about access to capital and opportunity for small businesses. In particular, it focused on Supplier Connection, a public-private partnership between the Small Business Administration and the I.B.M. Foundation, which I recently talked about at the Clinton Global Initiative. 
Supplier Connection is part of a larger Obama administration-wide effort called the American Supplier Initiative. It's focused on investing in our nation's small-business supply chain through increased market access for small businesses, counseling and mentoring services to assist small suppliers, ready sources of capital to support sales and addressing the skills gap facing many small manufacturers and suppliers.
Recent reports show that small suppliers can more than triple revenue growth and more than double job growth only a few years after becoming a supplier of a large company.
However, we know small businesses often lack the resources and the connections to go after commercial opportunities.
Supplier Connection is designed to make access to the supply chain of large companies easier and more efficient. It works like a universal college application. A small business fills in the supplier form once - and then it is in the supplier databases of all the large companies using the portal.
Today, there are 17 large companies signed up, with combined purchasing power of $300 billion each year. And we continue to build on the number of large and small businesses that are accessing this tool.
At the S.B.A., we are using the best practices we've learned managing the nearly $100 billion federal supply chain for small businesses and leveraging these experiences to help more small businesses to be effective commercial suppliers.
For example, our CAPLines program is helping small businesses obtain the working capital they need to be successful suppliers. To make the program more efficient, we've talked to lenders across the country. As a result, we streamlined the paperwork, allowed banks to use more of their own processes, and we are seeing volumes that are up 220 percent. We expect that we will do more volume this year in that program than we did in the past 10 years. CAPLines is one more tool for small businesses to grow and create jobs.
One of the points raised by the author in today's post is that small businesses need to be paid in a timely fashion by large companies. I agree that this is important. It's something that the Obama administration has addressed to help small businesses that sell to the government. Through our QuickPay program, we've reduced the government's payment time from 30 days after receiving an invoice to 15 days.
As American companies look to grow export sales, and more United States manufacturers bring production back to the United States, building a deep and diverse supply chain of small businesses to support these companies is critical to our long-term economic strength and our efforts to create an economy that's built to last.
The key is to focus on a comprehensive set of tools and resources that will help America's small businesses to be more competitive and more effective suppliers. No good idea should be off the table. - Karen Mills, S.B.A. administrator

        
Why the S.B.A.'s Partnership With I.B.M. Isn't Enough
        
Act Now! Send Us Your Questions for Karen Mills and the S.B.A.
        
Send Us Your Questions for the S.B.A.
        
How Big Can a Small Business Be? (And Why It Matters)
        
Taking a Second Meeting With Dreve.me

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (95%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); WORKING CAPITAL (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); BEST PRACTICES (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); WRITERS (73%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (70%); JOB CREATION (66%) capital; CAPLines; IBM; Karen Mills; Small Business Administration; small business finance; Supplier Connection; Mills, Karen; Small Business; Clinton Global Initiative

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (94%) Clinton Global Initiative; Small Business Administration

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%) Mills, Karen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



459 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Big Staff Reductions Imposed at Papers in New Orleans and Alabama

BYLINE: CAMPBELL ROBERTSON


HIGHLIGHT: About 200 employees of The Times-Picayune in New Orleans were told their last day would be Sept. 30, while about 400 staff members of three newspapers in Alabama are also being let go. 

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS - In New Orleans and across the state of Alabama on Tuesday, scores of journalists walked into short meetings and walked out with severance packages, part of an extensive restructuring of the news business at four newspapers owned by Advance Publications.
Roughly 600 employees of the four news organizations lost their jobs. They included advertising employees and copy editors, longtime political reporters and award-winning dining critics.
 In New Orleans, more than 200 staff members of The Times-Picayune, the 175-year-old newspaper there, were told that their last day would be Sept. 30, according toan article on the paper's Web site, NOLA.com. That's a cutback of 32 percent. 
In the newsroom alone, 84 of 173 employees were told they were being let go, the article said. 
The Web site al.com, the online site for The Birmingham News, The Huntsville Times and The Press-Register in Mobile, reported that 400 employees in Alabama would "experience an employment loss."
The Birmingham News had a newsroom of 102 employees going into Tuesday; by the end of the day 61 were gone. 
Employees at The Times-Picayune who are being kept on will be offered positions in the Nola Media Group, a new company that will oversee the paper starting in the fall, the NOLA.com article said. The paper announced in late May that it would reduce its print edition to three days a week and shift its emphasis to its online news presentation. 
"This is a difficult week at our paper," said Jim Amoss, the editor of The Times-Picayune, in a video posted online Tuesday morning. "We've had to let go of some wonderful employees. It is a painful transition. We will also be hiring to increase our coverage of areas we know are important to our readers."
The decisions about whom to lay off, he said, were made for both economic reasons and as part of a new digital approach to journalism.
"Change is what it is," said Charles J. Dean, senior political reporter for The Birmingham News. "It's difficult. I was notified this morning that I simply didn't fit, that in the 10,000-foot view that they're using that they didn't have room for a Chuck Dean."
Among the more notable names on the list of newsroom employees designated for layoffs are the award-winning restaurant critic Brett Anderson; a longtime sports columnist, Peter Finney; and the religion writer, Bruce Nolan.
Steven Newhouse, chairman of Advance.net, said that while he expected that people in New Orleans would be upset by the change in publishing frequency, the company is committed to reducing the print publishing schedule and some of the costs that go with that schedule.
"We think the best chance to keep it going as a quality news operation is to enhance the digital product," he said. And he said that talk of local owners' buying The Times-Picayune missed something: "We have no intention of selling no matter how much noise there is out there."
.

        
At Newhouse Newspapers, a Change in a No-Layoffs Policy
        
Patrick McCarthy to Leave Conde Nast
        
Shark Week or Jump the Shark Week?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); RESTAURANTS (71%) Advance Publications; Jim Amoss; New Orleans Times-Picayune; Steven Newhouse; Newspapers

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (97%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (58%) LOUISIANA, USA (97%); ALABAMA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



460 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Owner of Tortilla Factory Where Worker Died Admits Payroll Violations

BYLINE: KIRK SEMPLE


HIGHLIGHT: The worker's death and Erasmo Ponce's arrest cast a shadow over Mr. Ponce's profile as a success story in New York's growing Mexican population. 

 BODY:
The owner of a Brooklyn tortilla factory where a worker died last year after falling into a mixing machine pleaded guilty on Tuesday to failing to pay adequate wages, the state attorney general's office said.
The owner, Erasmo Ponce, also pleaded guilty on behalf of his company to failing to secure workers' compensation insurance for his employees.
As part of his plea, Mr. Ponce is to be sentenced to 90 days in prison, to be served on weekends, and ordered to pay $412,678.27 in restitution, officials said.
"Mr. Ponce and his company have pled guilty to violating laws which are essential for the well-being of New York's working people," Attorney GeneralEric T. Schneiderman said in a statement, "and now they have been held accountable."
Appearing in Brooklyn Criminal Court, Mr. Ponce, a Mexican immigrant, admitted that he had failed to pay his employees legally mandated overtime wages for time they worked over 40 hours a week, Mr. Schneiderman's office said.
He also admitted that his company, Tortilleria Chinantla, had failed to secure workers' compensation insurance for employees during two periods - June to October 2009 and March 2010 to January 2011 - and that he had filed state tax returns that failed to list all of his employees, thus avoiding payment of contributions to the state's Unemployment Insurance Fund, the attorney general's office said.
Mr. Ponce pleaded guilty to one count of failure to pay wages, a misdemeanor. In addition, on behalf of his corporation, he pleaded guilty to another count of failure to pay wages and a count of failure to secure workers' compensation insurance, a felony, Mr. Schneiderman's office said.
He is scheduled to be sentenced next January.
Mr. Ponce, a widely respected businessman and community leader in New York's Mexican diaspora, was arrested in March and faced 26 felony counts and 23 misdemeanor counts.
The case dates to Jan. 24, 2011, when Juan Baten, a Guatemalan worker, was crushed to death by a large mixer.
Regulators began scrutinizingMr. Ponce's operation.
State officials quickly discovered that the company had been operating without workers' compensation insurance for nearly a year, and they shut the factory down. The state later allowed the plant to reopen, but last July, federal officials cited the company for safety violations.
Mr. Baten's death and the ensuing investigations have cast a pall over the life story of Mr. Ponce. He moved to the United States from Mexico in 1989 and began doing manual labor. He eventually started a small tortilla-making vending business in New York that, within a decade, grew into a national enterprise with revenue of several million dollars a year.
His success made him one of the wealthiest and most influential members of the city's growing Mexican population, and he burnished his reputation with donations to various social and political causes in the region and in Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SENTENCING (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); ARRESTS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (83%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); OVERTIME (78%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (78%); FELONIES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%) Baten, Juan; Schneiderman, Eric T; Labor and Jobs; Sentences (Criminal); Accidents and Safety

PERSON: Baten, Juan; Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



461 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: The Fiscal Legacy of George W. Bush

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans' insistence that tax cuts are stimulative and that tax increases never reduce the deficit are unsupported by the facts, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Republicans assert that Barack Obama assumed sole responsibility for the budget on Jan. 20, 2009. From that date, all increases in the debt or deficit are his responsibility and no one else's, they say.
This is, of course, nonsense - and the American people know it. As I documented in a previous post, even today 43 percent of them hold George W. Bush responsible for the current budget deficit versus only 14 percent who blame Mr. Obama.
The American people are right; Mr. Bush is more responsible, as a new report from the Congressional Budget Office documents.
In January 2001, the office projected that the federal government would run a total budget surplus of $3.5 trillion through 2008 if policy was unchanged and the economy continued according to forecast. In fact, there was a deficit of $5.5 trillion.
The projected surplus was primarily the result of two factors. First was a big tax increase in 1993 that every Republican in Congress voted against, saying that it would tank the economy. This belief was wrong. The economy boomed in 1994, growing 4.1 percent that year and strongly throughout the Clinton administration.
The second major contributor to budget surpluses that emerged in 1998 was tough budget controls that were part of the 1990 and 1993 budget deals. The main one was a requirement that spending could not be increased or taxes cut unless offset by spending cuts or tax increases. This was known asPaygo, for pay as you go.

During the 2000 campaign, Mr. Bush warned that budget surpluses were dangerous because Congress might spend them, even though Paygo rules prevented this from happening. His Feb. 28, 2001, budget message reiterated this point and asserted that future surpluses were likely to be even larger than projected due principally to anticipated strong revenue growth.
This was the primary justification for a big tax cut. Subsequently, as it became clear that the economy was slowing - a recession began in March 2001 - that became a further justification.
The 2001 tax cut did nothing to stimulate the economy, yet Republicans pushed for additional tax cuts in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006 and 2008. The economy continued to languish even as the Treasury hemorrhaged revenue, which fell to 17.5 percent of the gross domestic product in 2008 from 20.6 percent in 2000. Republicans abolished Paygo in 2002, and spending rose to 20.7 percent of G.D.P. in 2008 from 18.2 percent in 2001.
According to the C.B.O., by the end of the Bush administration, legislated tax cuts reduced revenues and increased the national debt by $1.6 trillion. Slower-than-expected growth further reduced revenues by $1.4 trillion.
However, the Bush tax cuts continued through 2010, well into the Obama administration. These reduced revenues by another $369 billion, adding that much to the debt. Legislated tax cuts enacted by President Obama and Democrats in Congress reduced revenues by an additional $407 billion in 2009 and 2010. Slower growth reduced revenues by a further $1.3 trillion. Contrary to Republican assertions, there were no additional revenues from legislated tax increases.
In late 2010, Mr. Obama agreed to extend all the Bush tax cuts for another two years. In 2011, this reduced revenues by $105 billion.
On the spending side, legislated increases during the Bush administration added $2.4 trillion to deficits and the debt through 2008. This includes $121 billion for Medicare Part D, a new entitlement program enacted by Republicans in 2003.
Economic factors added almost nothing to increased spending - just $27 billion in total. This is mainly because interest rates were much lower than C.B.O. had anticipated, leading to lower spending for interest on the debt.
After 2008, it becomes harder to separate spending that was initiated under Mr. Bush from that under Mr. Obama. We do know that spending for Part D has risen rapidly - Republicans phased in the program to disguise its budgetary cost - adding $150 billion to the debt during 2009-11.
According to a recent report from the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the unfunded wars in Iraq and Afghanistan increased the debt by $795 billion through the end of fiscal 2008. The continuation of these wars by Mr. Obama added another $488 billion through the end of 2011.
Putting all the numbers in the C.B.O. report together, we see that continuation of tax and budget policies and economic conditions in place at the end of the Clinton administration would have led to a cumulative budget surplus of $5.6 trillion through 2011 - enough to pay off the $5.6 trillion national debt at the end of 2000.
Tax cuts and slower-than-expected growth reduced revenues by $6.1 trillion and spending was $5.6 trillion higher, a turnaround of $11.7 trillion. Of this total, the C.B.O. attributes 72 percent to legislated tax cuts and spending increases, 27 percent to economic and technical factors. Of the latter, 56 percent occurred from 2009 to 2011.
Republicans would have us believe that somehow we could have avoided the recession and balanced the budget since 2009 if only they had been in charge. This would be a neat trick considering that the recession began in December 2007, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research.
They would also have us believe that all of the increase in debt resulted solely from higher spending, nothing from lower revenues caused by tax cuts. And they continually imply that one of the least popular spending increases of recent years, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, was an Obama administration program, when in fact it was a Bush administration initiative proposed by the Treasury Department that was signed into law by Mr. Bush on Oct. 3, 2008.
Lastly, Republicans continue to insist that tax cuts are highly stimulative, often saying that they add nothing to the debt, when this is obviously ridiculous.
Conversely, they are adamant that tax increases must not be part of any deficit-reduction package because they never reduce deficits and instead are spent. This is also ridiculous, as the experience of the Clinton administration clearly shows. The new C.B.O. data confirm these facts.

        
Would Romney Be Another Bill Clinton or Another George W. Bush?
        
Rich Nontaxpayers
        
Taxes and Employment
        
Republicans and Fiscal Responsibility
        
A Close Look at the Perry Tax Plan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%) Bruce Bartlett; budget deficit; Daily Economist; deficit; deficit reduction; George W. Bush; politics; Republicans; spending; TARP; tax cuts; Bush, George W; Federal Budget (US); Republican Party; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%) Republican Party

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Bush, George W

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



462 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Rifts

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
Mitt Romney's proposal to overhaul huge federal programs to allow students to attend any school they choose is an about-face for Republicans and a return to the party's small-government ideology, Trip Gabriel writes. But while Mr. Romney and supporters of school choice argue that this approach would improve education by making schools more competitive, skeptics argue that the method is unproven.
Jeb Bush's critical assessment of the Republican Party's purist approach to immigration, deficit reduction and partisanship on Monday highlighted the growing chasm between the Bush family and Republican Party leaders, Jim Rutenberg writes. While Mr. Bush did not spare President Obama and Democrats, his criticism of his fellow Republicans drew more attention because of his position as a potential vice-presidential pick or future presidential candidate.
Four years ago, the Mormon Church was a driving force behind a gay marriage ban in California. But with four more states preparing to take up legislation defining marriage this year, Jack Healy reports, the church has not signaled whether it will take sides, as it grapples with dissent in the congregation over homosexuality.
Happening in Washington:
At 10 a.m., Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. will testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee. 
At noon, the auction house Christie's will hold a press preview of George Washington's personal, annotated copy of the Constitution and Bill of Rights at the Jefferson hotel. The document will be auctioned in New York on June 22; the estimated sale price is $2 million to $3 million.
Also at noon, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will participate in a discussion with Shimon Peres, the president of Israel, at a lunch sponsored by the Brookings Institution.
Economic reports expected Tuesday include the federal budget for May, coming from the Treasury Department at 2 p.m.

        
The Weekend Word: Investigation
        
The Early Word: Disapproval
        
The Early Word: Wisconsin, the Next Chapter
        
The Early Word: Paychecks
        
The Early Word: Recall

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUCTIONS (86%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MARRIAGE (75%); BUDGETS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); MARRIAGE LAW (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); SCHOOL CHOICE (57%); IMMIGRATION (55%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); SHIMON PERES (53%); ERIC HOLDER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



463 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2090 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Why the Bailout in Spain Won't Work | The euro zone's offer of $125 billion to bail out Spanish banks over the weekend was hailed by finance ministers and officials across Europe as a masterstroke. But by now, it should be apparent that the bailout has failed - or is at least on its way to failing, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
After a brief rally Monday morning, stock markets in Spain swooned. The 10-year Spanish bond - perhaps the greatest indicator of confidence, or in this case a lack of confidence - jumped higher, to about 6.5 percent, demonstrating that investors were now even more anxious about the country's ability to pay back its debts than they were the day before the bailout was announced. Seven percent was the threshold that preceded the government bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal in 2010 and 2011. The cost on Monday of buying credit-default swaps - or insurance - on Spanish debt spiked, too.
Indeed, it now appears that the bailout could make things in Spain worse, not better. And market indicators for the next domino in line for a bailout, Italy, point in the wrong direction.
This was bound to happen. That's because bailing out the banks in each European country individually is a fool's errand.
DealBook 

        
Worries in Europe Shift to Italy | As relief over the Spanish bailout deal evaporated, concerns mounted on Monday that Italy could be the next victim of the Continent's financial crisis, with investors selling Italian stocks and bonds.The New York Times reports that Italian officials privately expressed concern that the support pledged to Spanish banks might not stop the troubles from spreading.
NEW YORK TIMES
DEAL NOTES
Family Net Worth Erodes | Federal Reserve figures shed new light on the damage inflicted by the financial crisis, showing that the median American family in 2010 had no more net worth than in the early 1990s, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
NetJets Plans a $9.6 Billion Order for Jets | NetJets, the private aircraft company owned by Warren E. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, is purchasing as many as 425 jets to add to its fleet of more than 700 planes, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Ray Dalio's Son to Host a Charity Concert | Willie Nelson is headlining a private fund-raiser at the Belle Haven Club in Greenwich, Conn., to benefit the China Care Foundation, a charity established by Matt Dalio, son of the Bridgewater Associates chief, according to The Stamford Advocate.
STAMFORD ADVOCATE
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
America Movil Increases Stake in KPN | The Mexican telephone operator has acquired 6 million shares in the Dutch telecommunications company KPN, as America Movil continues to build up ownership in the European business.
DealBook 
Wary of a Takeover, Qantas Hires Macquarie | After forecasting a pretax loss of more than 450 million Australian dollars from its international unit and with its shares at a 17-year low, Qantas Airways has hired Macquarie to help the company defend itself against potential hostile takeover bids.
DealBook 
Berkshire Offers to Buy ResCap Assets | In a filing in Manhattan bankruptcy court, Berkshire essentially offered to step in as the preliminary bidder for both the mortgage origination and servicing business and a portfolio of loans that are both being put up for auction.
DealBook 
J.&J. Cleared for Synthes Acquisition | The Federal Trade Commission said on Monday that it would require Johnson & Johnson to sell its system for surgically treating serious wrist fractures as a condition of approval for the company's proposed $21.3 billion acquisition of Synthes.
DealBook 
Wireless Merger in Germany Could Prompt Scrutiny | Telefonica and KPN, which are considering a $20 billion tie-up of their German businesses, could draw extended antitrust scrutiny by creating the country's largest wireless service provider by customers, according to Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Investor Group Agrees to Buy Orange County Register | A group led by Aaron Kushner, an entrepreneur in the Boston area, is buying The Orange County Register in California and six other newspapers from Freedom Communications, which emerged from bankruptcy in 2010, the Media Decoder blog reports.
NEW YORK TIMES MEDIA DECODER
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Goldman Brings Back a Former Partner | Mark Schwartz is well known at Goldman, which he joined in 1979 as a banker. He was a partner by the time the company went public in 1999, and he left a few years later.
DealBook 
British Bankers' Association Names New Chief | The British Bankers' Association has appointed Anthony Browne, previously Morgan Stanley's head of government relations for Europe, Middle East and Africa, as its new chief executive. Mr. Browne will take over from Angela Knight from the beginning of September.
DealBook 
Bank of America's Moszkowski to Join a Research Boutique | Autonomous Research, a London-based boutique research firm, has hired Guy Moszkowski from Bank of America Merrill Lynch as the chief executive of its United States operations.
DealBook 
JPMorgan Finds Defenders on Wall Street | Bloomberg News reports that a number of executives, lobbyists and analysts in the financial industry say the outcry over JPMorgan Chase's huge trading loss is an overreaction. Stephen A. Schwarzman of the Blackstone Group said, "Publicly excoriating JPMorgan serves no purpose except to reduce people's confidence in the financial system."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Bankers Criticize Fed's Stress Test Methods | A panel of bankers including Vikram Pandit, Citigroup's chief executive, said a disparity between how the Fed analyzes banks and how the banks analyze themselves has helped create "uncertainty and confusion," Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
At Rally, Wells Fargo Targets Higher Share of Mortgages | Sales managers in Wells Fargo's mortgage unit dressed as cowboys for an Old West-style rally, at which they encouraged employees to attain a 40 percent share of the market for home lending, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
L.S.E. Group Names New Financial Chief | The company that operates the London Stock Exchange said on Tuesday that David Warren, a former Nasdaq OMX Group executive, would become its chief financial officer starting July 2, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Goldman Predicts a Recovery in Commodities | Goldman Sachs projected that a commodity index would rise 29 percent over the next year, despite uncertainty in Europe, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Private Equity Firms Beat the Market Last Year | According to data compiled by the research firm research firm Cambridge Associates, private equity firms returned 10.9 percent in 2011, more than the Dow or the S.&P. 500, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
Technicolor Rejects Higher JPMorgan Investment Proposal | Technicolor rejected a revised investment bid by JPMorgan Chase on Monday after the film equipment maker's board deemed the newer offer too onerous.
DealBook 
Temasek Acquires 5.5 Percent Stake in Ivanhoe Mines | Temasek, Singapore's sovereign wealth fund, said it acquired a stake in the Canadian miner Ivanhoe worth roughly $425 million, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Growth Seen in Brazilian Private Equity | The Brazilian Association of Private Equity and Venture Capital predicted that private equity and venture capital in the country would grow by more than 20 percent this year, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS 
Hedge Fund Assets Expected to Double | According to a survey by Citigroup, the hedge fund industry may grow to $5 trillion in assets over the next five years as institutional investors commit more money to the sector, The Wall Street Journal reports.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Herbalife Looks to Reassure Investors | Herbalife, whose stock fell after the hedge fund manager David Einhorn raised questions on a conference call, attributes the movement to "insecurity." The chief financial officer, John DeSimone, told Bloomberg News that the company "to do a better job of educating Wall Street as to how the model works."
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Citadel and CQS Hire Managers in Asia | As smaller hedge funds in Asia struggle to raise money, Citadel and CQS recently made high-profile hires, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
SAC Capital Hires a Manager | Louis Villa is headed to SAC Capital from Edoma Partners, a fund started by a former Goldman Sachs trader that has struggled with disappointing returns, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Amid Drumbeat of Bad News, Investors Bet Against Facebook | Judging by Facebook's short-interest levels, a good number of investors seem to be betting that the social network's shares will struggle for some time.
DealBook 
Southeast Asia Is a Bright Spot for I.P.O.'s | Shares of companies that went public in Southeast Asia since the beginning of the year have fared better than their global counterparts, Bloomberg News reports. Felda Global and IHH Healthcare are aiming to take advantage of this relative confidence.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Evonik Faces a Skeptical Market | As the German chemical company Evonik makes its second attempt to go public, investors are saying it should aim to price at a discount to rivals, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Companies Born in Europe, but Based on the Planet | European Internet entrepreneurs are hoping their experience in foreign markets will help them compete with better-financed American rivals.
DealBook 
Battery Maker Backed by the U.S. Claims a Breakthrough | A123 Systems, which makes lithium-ion batteries for electric cars, has had stumbles that could give ammunition to critics of government subsidies. But on Tuesday, the company plans to announce a new battery technology that it says is a breakthrough in the industry, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Accel Partners Invests $30 Million in LightSpeed | The venture capital firm Accel has invested in a Canadian start-up, LightSpeed, that makes payment software for retailers.
PEHUB | TECHCRUNCH
Indian Media Company Raises $39 Million | Norwest Venture Partners led a financing round in Komli Media, a Mumbai-based company that is developing digital advertising technologies.
PRESS RELEASE
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Insider Trading Case Focuses On Defendant's Character | The judge overseeing the trial of Rajat K. Gupta adhered to his restrictions on evidence related to Mr. Gupta's charitable works.
DealBook 
Kodak Concedes Difficulty in Drawing Lead Bidder for Patents | Eastman Kodak late on Monday sought to set up a confidential auction for its portfolios of over 1,100 patents, after the bankrupt film pioneer acknowledged that it has encountered difficulty drawing a lead bidder.
DealBook 
Regulator Releases 'Road Map' on Swaps Overhaul | The Securities and Exchange Commission plans rules that will require companies to trade most derivatives contracts through regulated exchanges and force most derivatives deals to go through clearinghouses.
DealBook 
Panel Finds U.S. and Europe Behind Schedule on Financial Rules | In a report to Group of 20 leaders, regulators and central bankers found that the United States, the European Union and Japan are behind schedule on measures that were adopted as part of an effort to avert future banking crises.
DealBook 
Nomura May Face Regulatory Action for Insider Trading | Japan's financial services minister said Nomura may face "severe action" for its role in an insider trading case, Bloomberg News reports.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
A Misguided Response to a Crisis | "The American and European responses to their respective financial crises are studies in contrast," writes Joe Nocera in The New York Times, making a reference to the film version of "Too Big to Fail" to help illustrate his point.
NEW YORK TIMES
Deloitte Agrees to Settle Bear Stearns Shareholder Lawsuit | Deloitte & Touche agreed to pay $19.9 million to settle a lawsuit by former Bear Stearns shareholders claiming that they were misled by the accounting firm, Reuters reports.
REUTERS
KPMG Executive to Chair British Regulator | John Griffith-Jones, the British chairman of the accounting firm KPMG, will become the first non-executive chairman of the Financial Conduct Authority, a new body charged with protecting investors and regulating markets in Britain, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); BANK FAILURES (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (85%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); MERGERS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (76%); BONDS (75%); FAMILY (72%); AIRCRAFT MFG (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (62%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICA MOVIL SAB DE CV (80%); KONINKLIJKE KPN NV (80%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); NETJETS INC (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

TICKER: AMX (NYSE) (80%); AMX (BMV) (80%); AMOV (NASDAQ) (80%); KPN (AMS) (80%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (80%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (80%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (80%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: RAY DALIO (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (94%); ITALY (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GREECE (79%); PORTUGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



464 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Campaigns Use Opponent's Words, and Cry Foul

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: Both the Obama and Romney campaigns are complaining about their candidate's words being taken out of context, while using the words of the rival candidate in attack ads. 

 BODY:
President Obama's White House advisers have never been enamored of the press. But even by that measure, their reaction to coverage of the president's news conference last week has been particularly testy.
At his regular press briefing on Monday, Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, chided the press for failing to put the president's comments about the private sector being "fine"in the proper context compared with the public sector.
"By 'public sector,' we're talking about state and local governments who have had to lay off teachers from classrooms, firefighters from the force and police officers from the force," Mr. Carney said. "That was the context in which he was speaking, which I think everyone in this room was aware of at the time."
He added a minute later: "Our general position is we're for truthful, factual, accurate reporting that's done in context."
And yet, Mr. Carney refused to comment directly on whether he thought that standard should be applied to criticisms of statements made by Mitt Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee.
He may have been reluctant because his colleagues who are running Mr. Obama's re-election campaign - and much of the Democratic establishment - have seized on two sentences by Mr. Romney on Friday to portray him as an enemy of first responders and teachers.
Mr. Romney said of Mr. Obama: "He says we need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers. Did he not get the message of Wisconsin?"
Mr. Obama's supporters translate those two sentences into Mr. Romney's "job elimination plan" for firefighters and police officers. A new video by the president's campaign accuses Mr. Romney of not caring about government jobs when he was governor of Massachusetts.
"Mitt Romney's economic plan? He wants to cut jobs for firefighters, police and teachers," the video says.
In response, Mr. Romney's campaign continued on Monday to accuse Mr. Obama of being out of touch with regular Americans. They said his six-word comment at the news conference - "The private sector is doing fine" - proves the president is tone deaf to the nation's economic troubles.
In a new video of its own, Mr. Romney's campaign contrasts Mr. Obama's comments with news reports about the dismal employment report a week earlier.
"Has there ever been a president so out of touch with the middle class?" the video asks.
And so it goes. Despite their equally loud protests about being taken out of context - and despite a weekend to think things over - both campaigns have decided to press full steam ahead by using the comments as political attacks.
Mr. Romney is sure to talk about the private sector comments as he begins a five-day bus tour at the end of the week. And Mr. Obama's supporters are already talking about Mr. Romney's comments nonstop; on Monday's cable TV programs, liberal hosts and guests mocked the remarks all day long.
The irony is that both campaigns claim the moral high ground even as they sling the mud.
Mr. Obama's team says that the president's comments about the private sector were part of a nuanced explanation of the relative health of different elements of the nation's economy.
By contrast, they say, Mr. Romney's remarks about first responders and teachers were clear evidence of his desire to reduce the size of government at any cost, and at the expense of government workers in public safety and education.
"In another moment of being out of touch, he said 'we don't need more fire fighters, policemen and teachers,'" said Brad Woodhouse, the communications director for the Democratic National Committee. " 'We should do something good for America and not hire more firefighters, policemen, and teachers.' Why he thinks they are bad for America is beyond me and I think beyond any sensible human being to understand."
Mr. Romney's campaign says the Republican nominee was talking broadly about the need for smaller, more efficient government that does not force taxes to go up to finance an ever-growing public work force.
At the same time, it says Mr. Obama's private sector remarks were a window into his soul, a moment of candor that demonstrates what he really cares about - and it's not the private sector.
Neither side is willing to concede anything, a sign of how intense, and rough, the next five months are likely to be.
Will the attacks work? 
Both campaigns say that the comments of their rival fit into a narrative that has already been formed in the minds of voters. 
Mr. Romney's campaign suggests that voters already question whether Mr. Obama has the skills to help the country recover economically. They point to surveys which show that fewer than half of the public approves of the way the president is handling the economy.
In that context, they say, Mr. Obama's assertion that the private sector is "doing fine," adds to a sense that he does not understand the magnitude of the problems that people feel.
"He's got it just opposite,'' Mr. Romney said at a fund-raiser in Georgia Monday night. "He doesn't understand what it takes to get this economy going.'' 
Mr. Obama's campaign advisers say that voters do not view the president as detached or out of touch and predict that will make the attack less successful.
But they say voters do see Mr. Romney as a businessman who cares more about the wealthy and less about regular working people - like teachers, firefighters and police officers. If that's true, they say, then Mr. Romney's comments will stick to him.
It's possible that both are right, or that neither is.
By the time November rolls around, it's possible that the dueling moments on Friday will have been forgotten amid the hype over national political conventions, Mr. Romney's vice-presidential pick, three debates and the final run-up to Election Day.
Or, one - or both - of the phrases may becoming a significant moment in the effort to define the two candidates.
Only time will tell.

        
Campaigns Duel Over Romney's Bain Record
        
Republican Ads Turn More Aggressive
        
Obama Calls to Congratulate His Official Opponent
        
Obama and Romney Campaigns Test Limits of Attacks
        
Republicans Use Crowdsourcing to Attack Obama Campaign

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); NEWS REPORTING (73%) 2012; barack obama; campaign ads; Jay Carney; media; mitt romney; press; Carney, Jay; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Woodhouse, Brad; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%) Carney, Jay; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Woodhouse, Brad

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



465 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 87 words

HEADLINE: More Firemen, More Policemen, More Teachers

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: That's your public sector. 

 BODY:
First, Mitt Romney ridiculed Obama for saying that we need more public employment:
He says we need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers. Did he not get the message in Wisconsin?
Afterwards, some commentators wondered, couldn't he have chosen different professions to ridicule? 
And the answer is no. When we talk about public workers, that's pretty much who we're talking about:
When we look at the unprecedented public austerity in this recession, we're basically looking at cutbacks on education and public protection.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



466 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Executive Pay Rises 10% in Britain, Adding to Debate

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: A report released on Tuesday showed that median total pay for executives at companies in the FTSE 100 rose 10 percent, to &#163;3.7 million, even as the index fell 5 percent. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Pay for top managers in Britain rose 10 percent last year, a report released on Tuesday showed, providing fresh ammunition for critics who argue that executive pay has become excessive.
Chief executives of Britain's 100 largest publicly traded companies received a median pay increase of 10 percent last year, according to a report by Manifest, a proxy voting agency, and MM&K, which advises on remuneration. That is higher than Britain's inflation rate of 3 percent, and the median executive package was about 200 times more than the average pay of employees in the private sector.
Shareholders are increasingly fighting back against pay packages that they consider to be too excessive at a time of economic turmoil and a volatile stock market environment. Firms in the United States and Europe, including Citigroup, UBS, Credit Suisse and Barclays, have faced shareholder revolts against their pay practices this year.
In Britain, the insurance firm Aviva and the oil company Cairn Energy had their remuneration reports rejected this year by shareholders in a nonbinding vote. Aviva's chief executive later resigned over the controversy. 
 Anthony Watson, chairman of the remuneration committee of the British lender Lloyds Banking Group, conceded to a parliamentary committee on Tuesday that when it came to executive pay, not "everything in the garden is rosy." 
"Have individuals got paid too much in the past? Yes, because a lot of variable pay has morphed into fixed pay," he said as part of a government inquiry into corporate compensation.
WPP, one of the largest advertising companies, is expected to face strong shareholder opposition for its pay packages at the annual shareholder meeting on Wednesday. Martin Sorrell, the firm's chief executive, received 11.6 million ($18.1 million) last year, making him Britain's second-highest paid executive among FTSE 100 companies, according to the Manifest report. 
Robert E. Diamond Jr. of Barclays, who made 21 million, was the highest-paid executive in the survey, while David Brennan of the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca ranked third, with a pay package of 11.3 million. 
Median base salaries for FTSE 100 chief executives rose 2.5 percent last year, but packages were lifted by larger long-term incentive pay and deferred bonuses, according to the report. The median total pay of an executive rose 10 percent, to 3.7 million, even as the value of stocks in the FTSE 100 index dropped 5 percent.
Some chief executives, including Mr. Sorrell, have responded to criticisms over their pay. In an editorial titled "Mea culpa - I act like the owner I am" in The Financial Times on June 5, Mr. Sorrell wrote: "I find the controversy over my compensation deeply disturbing." He continued: "The most wounding comment, made anonymously, is that I deserve a 'bloody nose' because I have been behaving as an owner, rather than as a 'highly paid manager.' If that is so, mea culpa. I thought that was the object of the exercise, to behave like an owner and entrepreneur and not a bureaucrat, who loads up with 'heads I win, tails you lose' options by just being there."
His comments won support last week from Ivan Glasenberg, chief executive of the mining giant Glencore International. Mr. Glasenberg is also embroiled in a pay controversy because shareholders criticized awards for the head of Xstrata, the company he is in the process of merging with Glencore. 
"If you want a good C.E.O., you have to pay for it," Mr. Glasenberg said, adding that shareholders have to decide whether they want a "caretaker manager" or someone who behaves like an owner of the company.
Apart from the size of the pay checks, shareholder criticism has focused on the lack of transparency in executive pay, which now often includes bonuses paid in shares and deferred for several years. Some investors also complained about the lack of independence of remuneration committees, saying they did not consult enough with shareholders.
John Lee, managing partner at FIT Remuneration Consultants, told the parliamentary inquiry that pay needed to become more transparent and simple but that investors also needed to build greater trust in remuneration committees. "We've all hidden behind formulae" to calculate the level of remuneration instead of having "enough faith in remuneration committee members to apply their judgment," Mr. Lee said.
Mr. Watson of Lloyds said he met about twice with each of the bank's large shareholders to discuss pay, including with officials of the British government, which bailed out the bank in 2008.
He told the inquiry that he usually asked for their input before calculating pay, but added: "What we wouldn't do is say 'We're thinking of paying this person this. Do you think that's O.K.?'"

        
UBS Faces Shareholder Opposition Over Executive Pay
        
Furor Over Executive Pay Is Not the Revolt It Appears to Be

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (96%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (94%); EXECUTIVES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONUS PAY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (50%) Anthony Watson; Aviva; Barclays; Citigroup; Executive Compensation; Executive Pay; Lloyds Banking Group; Manifest; Martin Sorrell; MM&K; Robert E. Diamond Jr.; WPP; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Sorrell, Martin; Bonuses; Barclays PLC; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Lloyds Banking Group Plc|LYG|NYSE; Corporate Governance; Financial Services; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (81%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (60%); CITIGROUP INC (56%); CAIRN ENERGY PLC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; WPP

TICKER: AZN (STO) (81%); AZN (NYSE) (81%); AZN (LSE) (81%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%); CNE (LSE) (56%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Lloyds Banking Group Plc; LYG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (81%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (56%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (56%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

PERSON: DAVID BRENNAN (50%) Diamond, Robert E Jr; Sorrell, Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



467 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Daughters of Boomers Giving More Financial Help to Parents, Study Finds

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Female baby boomers are also more likely to have financial conversations than men. 

 BODY:
The number of women who say they provide financial supportto their baby-boomer parents is increasing, according to research from Ameriprise Financial.
Two-thirds of boomers' daughters say they are providing some sort of financial support to their parents, up from 48 percent in 2007, when the initial "Money Across Generations" survey was done. (Baby boomers are Americans born between 1946 and 1964.)
More daughters report helping to pay their parents' utility bills, housing costs or long-term care costs. In addition, more daughters report helping with household tasks like cooking and cleaning, laundry and transportation. That sort of help may not have a direct financial impact, the study notes, but could cut into time that the daughters would otherwise have spent working.
Suzanna de Baca, vice president of wealth strategies at Ameriprise, speculated that the increase may be because the disproportionate impact of the recent recession on jobs traditionally held by men, resulting in "an increase in the number of women who are sole breadwinners, or earning more than their husbands or partners and taking on more of the financial burden."
Another factor may be that the children of boomers - Generations X and Y - are saddled with college debt and a tough job market and are more likely to live with their parents. So it may be that when they say they are helping to pay for their parents' mortgages or utilities, they are indeed doing so, but are also benefiting from the situation too.
"All of the generations are helping each other," she said.
Boomers' daughters are also more likely than their sons to worry that their parents won't have enough money for a secure retirement (63 percent, compared with 47 percent for sons).
A majority of boomers sons' also report providing support to their parents, but that proportion - 62 percent - is about the same as five years ago.
The national telephone survey was conducted for Ameriprise in November and December by research firm GfK Roper. The survey included 1,006 affluent baby boomers, 300 parents of baby boomers and 300 adult children of baby boomers. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for boomers, and six percentage points for their parents and children.
Meanwhile, three-fourths of female baby boomers say they've "adequately discussed" their parents' current financial situation, compared with 64 percent of men. Women are also more likely to say they've talked to their parents about how they'd pay for long-term care needs (62 percent for women, compared with 49 percent for men).
Ms. de Baca said that women are very aware of the likelihood that they'll outlive their spouses, so they may begin financial conversations because they know they will live longer and may be alone and have to support themselves financially.
Are you helping to support your boomer parents? Or, if you're a boomer yourself, have you discussed your own parents' financial situation with them?

        
Low Interest Rates Crimp Retirement Plans, Survey Finds
        
Many Employers Clueless About 401(k) Fees, G.A.O. Finds
        
Managing the Risk in Your Investment Portfolio
        
Research Supports Limits on Borrowing from Retirement Plans
        
New Estimate Sees Rise in Medical Costs in Retirement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BABY BOOMERS (95%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); MEN (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PARENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); GENERATION X (71%); AGING (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%); EMPLOYMENT (67%) Aging Parents; Retirement; Baby Boomers; Ameriprise Financial Inc; Ameriprise Financial Inc|AMP|NYSE

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Ameriprise Financial Inc

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (93%) Ameriprise Financial Inc; AMP; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



468 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: Books on America's Divergent Economic Paths

BYLINE: KEVIN MCKENNA


HIGHLIGHT: Felix Salmon, the Reuters financial journalist and blogger, is reviewing books by Paul Krugman and Timothy Noah on the increasing divide between the wealthiest and other Americans. 

 BODY:
From Books of The Times: Felix Salmon, the finance blogger at Reuters, is reviewing two books on the increasing divide between the wealthiest and other Americans -- "End This Depression Now!" by Paul Krugman and "The Great Divergence:
America's Growing Inequality Crisis and What We Can Do About It," by Timothy Noah. He says they are an attempt to disabuse the rich of the idea that we're in a sustainable recovery. Read more 

        
Measuring the Top 1% by Wealth, Not Income
        
Storming the Capitalist Castle
        
About That 99 Percent ...
        
Inequality Is Most Extreme in Wealth, Not Income
        
How Certificates Can Lift Income

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (85%) books; distribution of wealth; Felix Salmon; Income Inequality; Paul Krugman; Timothy Noah

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (87%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



469 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Now Who's Out of Touch? Romney Tries to Turn the Tables on Obama

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: For the fifth day in a row, the Romney campaign assailed President Obama for remarks that he said revealed the president's disconnect from economic reality. 

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. - Mitt Romney understands the power of the verbal gaffe, real or perceived. During the Republican primaries, he offered up an all-you-can-eat buffet of them: his wife's "Cadillacs," his friends' Nascar teams, how he liked being able to fire people.
Every time, the Obama campaign and its Democratic allies were eager to pounce.
Now, having absorbed the painful lessons of the hyper-magnified (and context-removed) political blunder, Mr. Romney is turning the tables on President Obama.
For the fifth day in a row, the Romney campaign assailed Mr. Obama on Tuesday over remarks that it said revealed his disconnect from economic reality, a theme that began on Friday after the president declared that the "private sector is doing fine" and shows no signs of letting up.
In a speech here in Orlando, Mr. Romney seized on a statement that the president made on Monday about the Affordable Care Act.
In an interview, a television reporter had asked the president about a small business in Iowa, whose owner claimed that the president's health care legislation had contributed to its closing in the state. Mr. Obama said that such an assertion of cause and effect was "kind of hard to explain."
"Because the only folks that have been impacted in terms of the health care bill are insurance companies who are required to make sure that they're providing preventive care, or they're not dropping your coverage when you get sick," Mr. Obama said. "And so, this particular company probably wouldn't have been impacted by that."
A gaffe? Mr. Romney treated it that way, and in his speech at a factory that makes air filters, he called the statement "something else that shows just how much out of touch" the president is.
"He said he didn't understand that Obamacare was hurting small business," Mr. Romney said. "You have to scratch your head about that."
Mr. Romney cited an online survey of almost 1,500 small-business owners, performed last July for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which found that three-quarters of them said they would be less likely to hire because of the burdens of the Affordable Care Act.
Afterword, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, Eric Fehrnstrom, said that Mr. Obama's comments about health care showed that "this is a president who is detached from the effect his policies are having on the economy."
The charge of being out of touch is as old as politics itself. But it has become clear that the strategy will be deployed with growing regularity by the Romney campaign, allowing it to cast Mr. Obama as an entrenched Washington insider and sidestep potentially nettlesome issues like Mr. Romney's own experience with health care in Massachusetts. Not once during his speech on Tuesday did Mr. Romney discuss his government-sponsored overhaul of that state's health care system. 
Instead, Mr. Romney reiterated his plan to replace the Affordable Care Act with what he likened to a "consumer market." That plan would allow those who buy insurance to receive the same tax advantages as businesses that purchase insurance for employees, ensure coverage for those with pre-existing conditions and hand control of health care to states, rather than the federal government.
With the Supreme Court likely to rule soon on the constitutionality of the health care law, Mr. Romney emphasized that his plan would be put into place regardless of the court's decision.
The Romney campaign has a simple message these days, which it is repeating over and over: what it portrays as President Obama's "mistakes" are not mistakes at all. Instead, they are windows into the mind of a man detached from the problems of ordinary Americans and small businesses.
It is a striking line of attack that seeks to repurpose and reverse the thrust of Mr. Obama's central critique of Mr. Romney: that he is a rapacious corporate raider unfamiliar with the problems of regular Americans.
That message was at the core of the television commercials that the Obama campaign has run mocking Mr. Romney's tenure at Bain Capital, which feature laid-off workers. And at a fund-raiser in Owings Mills, Md., on Tuesday, Mr. Obama, who plans to give an address on the economy on Thursday, chided his opponent for his barrage of recent attacks.
"Because folks are still hurting right now, the other side feels that it's enough for them to just sit back and say things aren't as good as they should be, and it's Obama's fault," the president said. "I mean, you can pretty much put their campaign on a tweet and have some characters to spare."
The president's campaign staff said it welcomed a debate over which candidate is more out of touch, especially given Mr. Romney's rhetorical record during the primary. But that is not deterring Mr. Romney. On Tuesday morning, he appeared on "Fox and Friends," where he said the president was "really out of touch with what is happening across America."
"The president needs to go out and talk to people, not just do fund-raisers, go out and talk to people in the country and find out what is happening," Mr. Romney said.
That criticism appears to be seeping in. At the event here, Frank Attkisson, a small-business consultant and local commissioner, nodded in agreement with Mr. Romney during the speech, and afterword said the president's statements about the private sector and the health care law reveal "his true colors."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); INSURANCE (68%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; Elections

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (92%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



470 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: The Return of Goldman's Mark Schwartz

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: After leaving Goldman in 2002, the banker worked for George Soros and later formed an investment firm with Raj Rajaratnam and Rajat K. Gupta. 

 BODY:
Mark Schwartz, hired this week to lead the Asia-Pacific operations at Goldman Sachs, has one of the more interesting rsums of the bank's recent hires. 
The banker left Goldman in 2002 and landed at Soros Fund Management, a company controlled by the hedge fund billionaire George Soros. Mr. Schwartz went on to serve as president and chief executive from 2003 to 2004. 
In 2006, Mr. Schwartz formed an investment firm with a handful of investors, including Raj Rajaratnam and Rajat K. Gupta, two prominent figures who have since been ensnared in insider trading cases. 
The firm was called Taj Capital and was later renamed New Silk Route. 
The travails of both Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Gupta have riveted Wall Street for some time. Mr. Rajaratnam, a billionaire investor, once ran the Galleon Group, which became one of the world's biggest hedge funds. Mr. Rajaratnam was convicted of insider trading last year and was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Mr. Gupta, once a Goldman director, is charged with leaking information about the bank to Mr. Rajaratnam, including details about the firm's 2008 financial crisis investment from billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett. Mr. Gupta is on trial in Federal District Court in Manhattan. Mr. Schwartz's name came up in both trials, but only in the context of being among the founding partners of New Silk Route.
Mr. Schwartz's connection to Mr. Rajaratnam and Mr. Gupta was short lived, and didn't rank a mention on Monday in the firm's announcement about his hiring. Mr. Schwartz left New Silk Route in 2006 to start another company, MissionPoint Capital Partners, a green energy investment firm that he also helped start. 
Mr. Schwartz, through a Goldman spokesman, declined to comment. 

        
At Gupta's Insider Trial, a Star Goldman Witness and Charts
        
Blankfein Takes the Stand in an Insider Trading Case

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HEDGE FUNDS (90%); INSIDER TRADING (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SENTENCING (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%) Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs; Mark Schwartz; Raj Rajaratnam; Rajat K. Gupta; Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj; Hiring and Promotion; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Soros Fund Management; Schwartz, Mark; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Revolving Door; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Soros Fund Management

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (94%); GEORGE SOROS (92%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%) Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



471 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Obama Stays Ahead in Pennsylvania Poll

BYLINE: DALIA SUSSMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The latest Quinnipiac University survey shows President Obama with a 6-point lead over Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
President Obama is viewed more favorably in Pennsylvania than Mitt Romney, and most voters there say the president would do a better job on foreign policy. 
But Mr. Romney has an edge when it comes to handling the economy and voters are closely divided on the question of which candidate would create more jobs, a Quinnipiac University poll released Tuesday finds. 
All told, 46 percent of voters say they would support Mr. Obama if the election were held today, and 40 percent would support Mr. Romney, essentially unchanged from Quinnipiac's late April poll. 
Mr. Obama garners strong support among the state's female voters, who prefer the president by 15 points (among men, 44 percent back Mr. Romney, compared with 40 percent for Mr. Obama). And while each candidate receives support from about 8 in 10 of his party's voters, among independents -- those all-important swing voters -- it's 43 percent for the president and 35 percent for Mr. Romney. 
Mr. Obama is personally more popular among the state's voters than Mr. Romney is. About half, 49 percent, express a favorable view of the president, while fewer, 35 percent, have a positive opinion of Mr. Romney. And while 58 percent of voters say Mr. Romney is a likeable person, many more -- 77 percent -- say Mr. Obama is.

Nevertheless, on the economy - the crucial issue this election year - Mr. Romney has an edge. Asked which candidate would do a better job on the economy, 49 percent said Mr. Romney would, while 41 percent chose Mr. Obama. 
The poll finds Pennsylvania's Senate race to be less competitive, with 51 percent supporting Bob Casey, the Democratic incumbent, and 32 percent backing Tom Smith. Mr. Smith is largely unknown to voters, with 7 in 10 saying they had not heard enough about him to say whether they viewed him favorably or unfavorably. 
Gov. Tom Corbett, a Republican, received his lowest approval rating since taking office in January 2011 in the Quinnipiac polls. Just 36 percent approve of him; 47 percent disapprove. Most voters disapprove of his handling of the state budget. Only 1 in 10 say the state's economy has improved since he became governor. 
A new state law requiring voters to show a photo identification card to vote had broad support in the poll. Two-thirds say they support it, while just a third are opposed. Respondents were told that "some people say voter ID laws are needed to prevent voter fraud. Others say the laws are designed to suppress turnout by low-income people and minorities." Nine in 10 Republicans and nearly two-thirds of independents support the law. Most Democrats, 53 percent, oppose it. 
The Quinnipiac University poll was conducted by telephone June 5-10 among 997 registered voters in Pennsylvania and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%) Casey, Robert P Jr; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Polls and Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2012; Quinnipiac University; Pennsylvania; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Quinnipiac University

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); BOB CASEY (69%); TOM CORBETT (58%) Casey, Robert P Jr; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



472 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: We Don't Need No Teachers!

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney suggested we have too many firefighters, teachers and policemen. 

 BODY:
There's a squabble in the presidential campaign over whether Mitt Romney said the country needs fewer police officers, firefighters and teachers.
Here's the he said, he said:
Last week, during a campaign speech, Mr. Romney said:
 [The president] wants another stimulus, he wants to hire more government workers. He says we need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers. Did he not get the message of Wisconsin? The American people did. It's time for us to cut back on government and help the American people.
Naturally the Obama campaign jumped all over this. They circulated the clip and released this statement:
Mitt Romney shockingly promised to cut jobs for firefighters, police, and teachers if elected. As President Obama urges Congress to pass his plan to put cops, firefighters, teachers, and construction workers back to work - after they left as many as 1 million jobs from his plan on the table - Mitt Romney has decided we need less jobs for middle class Americans, not more. That's the message he received this week. 
Then today, Mr. Romney went on Fox and tried to Etch A Sketch his gaffe away. 
Brian Kilmeade: [The president] says you want to cut firefighters and teachers, that you don't understand what's going on in these communities. What do you say to that, governor?
Mitt Romney: That's a very strange accusation. Of course, teachers and firemen and policemen are hired at the local level and also by states. The federal government doesn't pay for teachers, firefighters or policemen. So obviously, that's completely absurd. He's got a new idea, though, and that is to have another stimulus and to have the federal government send money to try and bail out cities and states. It didn't work the first time. It certainly wouldn't work the second time.
Confused? I think that's probably the intended effect. But let me try to cut through the clutter a bit, because the back-and-forth actually turns on something important. Obviously, Mr. Obama can't hire firefighters personally (even if he wants to), and Mr. Romney can't fire them (even though he likes firing people).
But cuts in government aid to states and cities, which Mr. Romney advocates at every chance he gets, mean less money for, you got it, teachers, firefighters and police officers. Conversely, federal stimulus programs can help local governments hire more people.
The right-wing has, of late, been amplifying its attacks on public-sector employees as overpaid, or slothful, or somehow responsible for the economic crisis. That's what Mr. Romney meant, I suppose, by the "message of Wisconsin."
That's just propaganda. Arguably public sector union pensions are unsustainable in many places, but government employees are hardly living it up at the taxpayers' expense. As Ben Polak and Peter Schott wrote on the Economix blog yesterday, "the recovery in private-sector employment, once it finally started, has not been particularly slow by recent historical standards" whereas "since the latest recession began, local government employment has fallen by 3 percent, and is still falling."
Underlying Mr. Romney's comments is the assumption that government employment is not really employment at all, and also that public-sector workers are somehow in a different category from all other taxpayers. How else to explain his statement that spending cuts, which result in teacher layoffs, will "help the American people"?
But really none of this is terribly surprising. Let's keep in mind that this is the same candidate who once said he was "not concerned about the very poor."

        
The Spending Binge That Wasn't
        
What Will President Obama Say?
        
Job Creation vs. Profit Creation
        
When the Truth is Not Enough
        
Mitt Romney and the Strange G.O.P. View of Government

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%) Barack Obama; government employees; Mitt Romney; stimulus spending; Romney, Mitt; Government Employees; Layoffs and Job Reductions

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (89%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



473 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: On Fund-Raising Push, Obama Says Romney Lacks Solutions

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama used his first stop in a marathon day of speedy fund-raisers to audition a new attack on Mitt Romney for what he described as a lack of concrete ideas to fix the economy. 

 BODY:
BALTIMORE - President Obama used his first stop in a marathon day of speedy fund-raisers Tuesday to audition a new attack on the Romney campaign, hitting his opponent for what he and his surrogates described as a lack of concrete ideas to fix the economy.
The president, who is scheduled to visit two blue states (one reliably Democratic, Maryland, and one that leans Democratic, Pennsylvania) used his back-to-back appearances before the party faithful in rainy Baltimore to drum up money and to lash out at Mr. Romney using the lingua franca of the tech age.
"Issue after issue, you present the Democratic approach and the Republican approach, we win," Mr. Obama said, in an appearance at the home of a local developer, Josh Fidler, and his wife, Genine, attended by 100 people with tickets running $10,000 to $50,000. "The challenge is, because folks are still hurting right now, the other side feels that it's enough for them to just sit back and say, 'Things aren't as good as they should be, and it's Obama's fault.'"
Mr. Obama added: "You can pretty much put their campaign on a tweet and have some characters to spare." 
Then he was off to Baltimore's Inner Harbor, where 500 supporters waited excitedly in line for a bigger lunch. Some 15 of them, having paid up to $40,000, first got a private "round table" with the president; reporters were barred from that.
Mr. Obama then spoke to the larger group, but at times he seemed off his game. When two ladies in the back yelled the familiar, "We love you, Mr. President" -- de rigueur for Mr. Obama's appearances before the party faithful -- his response, if there was one, was drowned out by the whoops of the crowd.
Still, this was Maryland, where Republican presidential candidates don't usually even bother campaigning, so it didn't take much to get the crowd cheering and laughing as Mr. Obama painted Mr. Romney as out of touch with the problems of ordinary Americans.
"When that woman in Iowa shared the story of her financial troubles," Mr. Obama said, Mr. Romney "gave her an answer straight out of a textbook. He said, 'Well, our productivity is our income.'"
To guffaws, Mr. Obama added that "those of us who've spent time out here in the real world" know how hard it can be to make ends meet on a fixed or dwindling income. "You can't solve a problem if you can't even see it," he said.
After Baltimore, Mr. Obama headed up the Northeast Corridor to Philadelphia, for three more fund-raisers. And on Thursday, he will be in New York -- that reliable Democratic money trough -- to continue to drum up campaign cash, at fund-raisers hosted by the glamorous set: the movie-star couple Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick, and the editor of Vogue, Anna Wintour.
Mr. Obama's advisers say that they will up their fund-raising game as the Republican Party ups its own, but it remains unclear whether the president will be able to keep up.
Toward the end of his Baltimore speech, Mr. Obama sounded some chords familiar to anyone who followed his 2008 campaign.
"If people ask what's this campaign about, you tell them it's still about hope," he said. "I still believe in you. I want you to keep believing in me."
He pressed the flesh with some of the people jammed at the front of a rope line, while Bruce Springsteen's "We Take Care of Our Own" played. And then, he was off to Philadelphia to do it all over again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%) Broderick, Matthew; Obama, Barack; Parker, Sarah Jessica; Wintour, Anna; Presidential Election of 2012; Baltimore (Md); Maryland; Pennsylvania; Philadelphia (Pa); Campaign Cash; Elections

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Broderick, Matthew; Obama, Barack; Parker, Sarah Jessica; Wintour, Anna

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Baltimore (Md); Maryland; Pennsylvania; Philadelphia (Pa)

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2012



474 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Greece vs. Germany?

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Five days after Greece's elections, its soccer team could play Germany's. How would fans -- and politicians -- behave? 

 BODY:
The Euro 2012 football championship -- soccer to Americans -- is riveting attention in Europe, perhaps more than the rescue of the Spanish banks or the Greek election on Sunday.
The format calls for groups of four countries to play round robins, with the two top teams in each group advancing to elimination rounds. And that is where the fun could begin.
If Greece, which is in Group A with Poland, Russia and the Czech Republic, managed to finish second in that group -- an unlikely but possible scenario -- it would play the winner of Group B on Friday, June 22. And that could well be Germany, which is favored to win its group over the Netherlands, Denmark and Portugal.
That would be five days after the Greek elections, about the time that the winner -- assuming there is one -- is announcing the new government's policies. That government could be led by Alexis Tsipras, who has promised to tear up Greece's austerity agreement with the rest of Europe. His party finished second in the inconclusive May elections.
The match would be in Gdansk, Poland, the home of Solidarity.
European football fans are sometimes a little rowdy, to put it gently. How do you think the Greek fans -- assuming there are any who can afford to travel to Poland -- would treat German fans?
Sometimes national leaders watch such games together, as a sign of friendship. Somehow, I doubt Mr. Tsipras would end up sitting sitting next to Angela Merkel, but if it happened, the expressions on their faces would be fascinating.

        
Can the I.M.F. Save the World?
        
In Europe, a Dispute Over Facts and Fairness
        
The Greek Solution
        
Beware of Budget Gimmickry
        
Rating the Credit Raters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOCCER (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (68%) European debt crisis; Germany; Greece; Soccer (Des);; Merkel, Angela; Tsipras, Alexis; Elections; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Soccer; UEFA European Football Championship; Europe; Floyd Norris

ORGANIZATION: UNION OF EUROPEAN FOOTBALL ASSOCIATIONS (59%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (74%) Merkel, Angela; Tsipras, Alexis

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); GERMANY (95%); POLAND (94%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); DENMARK (79%) Europe; Germany; Greece

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



475 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: 1 World Trade Center Is a Growing Presence, and a Changed One

BYLINE: DAVID W. DUNLAP


HIGHLIGHT: The tower is undeniably impressive and unquestionably a landmark of 21st-century New York, but it is not exactly the building New Yorkers were first led to believe they would see. 

 BODY:
When President Obama visits 1 World Trade Center on Thursday, he will find a tower that is undeniably impressive and - even a year and a half before its scheduled completion - unquestionably a landmark of 21st-century New York.
But it is not exactly the tower New Yorkers were led to believe they would see when the plans were unveiled in 2006. Since the Durst Organization joined the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 2010 as the effective codeveloper of the project, it has revised the design in a number of ways. 
"I think they've been few and minor," Patrick J. Foye, the executive director of the Port Authority, said in a telephone interview Monday. The authority has approved all the revisions. 
Taken together, it is true, the design revisions will probably not much alter the presence of 1 World Trade Center on the city's skyline. But they may change its place in the civic consciousness, if the tower is perceived as too isolated or fortified at its base, or as having too little of a symbolic spire at its summit.
What was supposed to be a cascade of steps from the building's west plaza down to Vesey and West Streets will instead be a terrace, set apart from West Street by a blocklong landscaped planter. Durst has also eliminated a skylight set into the plaza that was supposed to bring daylight to the observation deck lobby below ground.
Rather than being clad in panels of prismatic glass, the 185-foot-high base of the tower will be covered in hundreds of pairs of 13-foot vertical glass fins set against horizontal bands of eight-inch-wide stainless-steel slats. The corners of the base will lose what was supposed to have been a gentle but distinctive outward slope.
The rooftop mast will no longer be enclosed in a sculptural sheath of interlocking fiberglass panels but will instead be an exposed latticework structure. This may affect whether the arbiters of building height include the mast in their calculations, which would bring the 1,368-foot tower to a recognized height of 1,776 feet.
If the result of all these changes is to lower the construction budget - something the Durst Organization has a strong financial incentive to do - that was not their purpose, said Douglas Durst, the chairman.
"We didn't make the changes to save money," he said. "The changes were made in order to construct the building." Mr. Durst said some features specified by the architects at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and the landscape architects at Peter Walker & Partners would have been all but impossible to build and maintain.
Whatever the motivations, savings worth millions of dollars have been identified, though neither the Durst Organization nor the Port Authority would estimate the amount. 
Durst originally sought what would have been, in essence, a construction management fee of $35 million for what it envisioned as five years of work. The authority was unwilling to pay that amount. Instead, a deal was negotiated under which Durst would receive a $15 million fee and be entitled to a percentage of any "base building changes that result in net economic benefit to the project" - cost savings, in other words - that Durst had initiated and recommended.
In August 2010, the Port Authority board authorized incentives to Durst of 75 percent of any savings it realized up to $12 million, and 50 percent of any savings it realized beyond $12 million. Subsequent negotiations changed the benefit to Durst, with a formula running from 75 percent of savings up to $24 million, stepping down to 50 percent, 25 percent and 15 percent as the savings increased.
After a year in which the design revisions have come out publicly in dribs and drabs, Mr. Durst and his senior project manager, Tony Tarazi, sat down with a reporter last week to discuss the changes comprehensively.
The biggest revision that has received the least public attention is to the large triangular plaza on the west side of 1 World Trade Center. Because of a grade change on the site, the plaza is up to 5 feet 8 inches higher than the surrounding sidewalks. The original plan called for broad stainless-steel steps to address that height difference.
"We wanted to create as much plaza as possible," Mr. Durst said. "We didn't see that the steps added anything, because most people don't come in from the west." Durst executives also questioned the wisdom of using stainless steel as a walking surface.
Peter Walker & Partners stepped away from the project and was replaced by Mathews Nielsen, of which the landscape architect Signe Nielsen is a principal. The Walker firm remains involved in the the 9/11 Memorial.
Under the new design, the plaza would occupy a terrace above sidewalk level, reached by a stairacse on Vesey Street. The terrace would be paved in granite, have about a dozen sweetgum trees and a blocklong planter that would double as seating.
"The stainless-steel pavers turned out to be very slippery," Mr. Foye said, "and there would have been times of inclement weather where there was a danger."
The windowless base - a mechanical enclosure and protective concrete pedestal for the tower - is as high as a 15-story office building. The equipment within needs ventilation, so the facade must be permeable.
David M. Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill specified a cladding in panels of laminated glass with a saw-tooth face made of prisms in a vertical array. Screened gaps between the panels would have allowed the mechanical equipment to breathe.
The chief problem, Mr. Tarazi said, was that the Chinese fabricator chosen for the job, Sanxin Glass, was unable to mill the saw-tooth pattern in sheets of tempered glass without deforming the panels beyond the tolerances needed for proper installation. Mr. Foye called this a "design failure." Christopher O. Ward, the executive director of the authority when the decision was made to abandon prismatic glass, called it "a good design that couldn't be fabricated."
In any case, the revised design was made public last month in The New York Post. It consists of an aluminum screen, in front of which are horizontal stainless-steel slats, in front of which are rows of fins, arranged in pairs, that are made of laminated glass with a reflective surface on one side and a translucent, acid-etched matte finish on the other.
In the bottom and top rows, the fins will be "open," flat against the facade. In the intermediate rows, the fins will "close" to form shallow V shapes, at angles ranging from 7.5 degrees to 60 degrees. The slats will be visible through the interstices.
Just behind the fins will be LED arrays whose light will be reflected outward by the slats. That could open the possibility of enormous multicolored lighting compositions. But Mr. Foye said the Port Authority would be "very measured and circumspect" in the kind of illumination it allowed at the tower, keeping in mind its location directly north of the 9/11 Memorial. "It will not be lit in a rainbow or a plethora of colors," he said.
Perhaps the greatest architectural casualty of the redesigned facade are the inclined - or chamfered - corners of the base, which have already been constructed at the intended 3.8-degree angle, forming enormous, slender isosceles triangles in steel and concrete. These corners will be squared off by the cladding.
Mr. Tarazi said it was the architects' idea to eliminate the chamfering when it became apparent how difficult it would be aesthetically to resolve the clash between the vertical lines created by the fins and the sloping lines at each edge. "S.O.M. saw it as an opportunity to improve on the design," Mr. Tarazi said, "and I think they did."
Through a spokeswoman, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill declined to comment. That underscores how remarkable it was last month when Mr. Childs publicly expressed disappointment with the decision by his clients not to build a radome, as such structures are known, to enclose the mast. "Eliminating this integral part of the building's design and leaving an exposed antenna and equipment is unfortunate," he said in a statement.
Though radomes are common on tall buildings and towers, Mr. Foye said Mr. Childs's design "would have been very difficult to build and impossible to maintain."
Elimination of the radome may make it harder to persuade the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, a worldwide arbiter of such things, to include the mast in its calculations. If the council rules in 2014 that 1 World Trade Center is 1,368 feet tall, Willis Tower in Chicago would not be dislodged as the tallest building in the United States. 
The concept of the new trade center towers culminating in a point 1,776 feet in the sky was introduced nine years ago by Daniel Liebeskind, the original master planner of the site. Asked this week about the design change, he said through a spokeswoman that "the tape measure still extends 1,776 feet from the ground to the tip of the spire, so the tower remains a spectacular symbol of American resilience and democracy."
An earlier version of this post transposed the credits for the pair of renderings showing the entire 1 World Trade Center tower. The rendering on the left is by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill/dbox; the one on the right is from the Durst Organization.

        
Barclay Street, 11:42 a.m.
        
The Tallest One in the Hemisphere
        
Readying a Destination at New York's New Summit
        
Downtown Regains Its Compass in the Sky
        
'Cautiously Optimistic' on Ground Zero Project

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); FIBERGLASS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); BUDGETS (64%) 1 World Trade Center; Childs, David M; Durst, Douglas; Foye, Patrick J; Ward, Christopher O; 1 World Trade Center (NYC); Architecture; Buildings (Structures); Monuments and Memorials (Structures); September 11 (2001); Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Skidmore, Owings & Merrill; Building Blocks; Buildings and Landmarks; Manhattan; Sept. 11 and Ground Zero

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Skidmore, Owings & Merrill

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%) Childs, David M; Durst, Douglas; Foye, Patrick J; Ward, Christopher O

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



476 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Allen Wins Republican Senate Primary in Virginia

BYLINE: MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ


HIGHLIGHT: George Allen, the former senator whose political career imploded after a disastrous re-election campaign in 2006, easily defeated three conservative opponents in the primary. 

 BODY:
George Allen, the former Virginia senator whose political career imploded after a disastrous re-election campaign in 2006, moved a step closer to redemption on Tuesday after easily defeating three conservative Republican opponents in the Virginia Senate primary.
With 99 percent of the vote counted, Mr. Allen won 65 percent of the vote, The Associated Press reported, defeating a state legislator, a Tea Party leader and a minister.
His victory paves the way for a political battle in November that could reverberate beyond Virginia and help decide the balance of forces in Washington after the next election cycle.
Mr. Allen, who is also a former Virginia governor, will face Tim Kaine, another former governor, in a contest that polls show will be evenly matched. Both men are well known and have expansive political and financial resources. And both can count on the heavy backing of party elites anxious to gain a foothold in a crucial swing state.
In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Allen sought to cast himself as a Washington outsider and linked his Mr. Kaine with President Obama and what he termed a "failed" status quo.
"My opponent supports the failed economic policies coming out of Washington and has a record of supporting bigger government and higher taxes, while losing 100,000 private-sector jobs," Mr. Allen said. "I trust the people, not Washington, and have a proven record of reducing tax burdens, cutting regulations and creating jobs in Virginia.
"While it won't be easy to change the ways of Washington, the stakes are too high to sit on the sidelines," he said.
The victory represents a crucial moment in Mr. Allen's political comeback. Early in his 2006 Senate reelection campaign, he his victory seemed almost assured. His name was already being whispered as a possible contender in the 2008 presidential election. But a clumsy campaign, riddled with missteps, including a racially tinged gaffe, cost him the election.
Ahead of November, Mr. Allen has tried to keep a lid on the heavy partisanship that has defined previous campaigns, and on Tuesday delivered a message of unity across party lines.
"I welcome Republicans, independents and Democrats to stand with me in November to secure the promise of the American Dream," he said.

        
Will Obama Ask Kaine to Seek Virginia Senate Seat?
        
Senator Webb Will Not Run for Re-election
        
In Virginia, Kaine Jumps to Substantial Fund-Raising Lead
        
Tim Kaine Announces Senate Run in Virginia
        
Republicans Hit Kaine Ahead of Senate Decision

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (65%) george allen; Republicans; tim kaine; Virginia; Allen, George F; Kaine, Timothy M; Republican Party; Senate; Elections; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party; Senate

PERSON: TIM KAINE (92%); JIM WEBB (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Allen, George F; Kaine, Timothy M

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



477 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 12, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: The Great Immigration Reform Mirage

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: There are populists in both parties whose hostility to illegal immigration will make any agreement much harder to reach than elites on both sides realize. 

 BODY:
In a breakfast interview with Bloomberg View on Monday, Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, expressed general disappointment with the Republican Party's rightward drift since his brother left the White House in 2009. He also cited a specific place where his party needs to return to the center: The issue of immigration reform. According to Bush, Mitt Romney's focus on border enforcement has placed him "in a box" and limited his appeal to Hispanic voters.
Similarly, in a piece in this week's New Yorker on President Obama's potential second-term agenda, Ryan Lizza reported that many White House aides believe that comprehensive immigration reform offers the president his best chance of "achieving a major piece of domestic legislation in his second term." If Obama wins re-election narrowly while Romney runs poorly among Hispanics, the White House theory runs, Republican leaders will feel that they have a strong political incentive to accept some kind of path to citizenship for the nation's illegal immigrant population.
To the extent that Republican lawmakers are influenced by the conventional wisdom of the city they inhabit, then this theory might be correct. But there's a reason the push for some sort of amnesty or earned legalization for illegal immigrants failed repeatedly under George W. Bush, and a reason it wasn't much of a priority for Democrats during their Obama-era window of Beltway dominance. At the grass-roots level of both parties, the politics of the issue are simply more fraught, and the advantages of the pro-legalization position less obvious, than the elite consensus tends to assume.
That consensus is founded on two indisputable realities: First, that the Hispanic share of the electorate is increasing as America's Anglo majority diminishes and disappears, and second, that Hispanics as a bloc are more likely to favor liberal immigration policies than other voters.
But it's also founded on three unwarranted leaps. The first leap takes the projected demographics of America in 2050 and reads them back onto the politics of America in 2012. The reality is that 2050 is still two generations away, and today the Hispanic vote is expanding much more slowly than many pundits have assumed, in part because Hispanic voter participation lags behind that of other groups.
Sean Trende of RealClearPolitics, for instance, has cited exit poll data showing the Hispanic share of the electorate at 8.2 percent in 2004, 7.9 percent in 2006, 8.4 percent amid the Obama wave of 2008, and then back to 8 percent in 2010. This short-term fluctuation doesn't mean that Republicans don't need to win more Hispanic votes in the long run, or that frank xenophobia can't rebound on them in the short term. But it suggests that the party's political problem is less inevitably urgent than many analysts suggest.
The second leap assumes that Hispanics are essentially single-issue voters, focused narrowly on immigration and primed to switch coalitions based on appeals to ethnic solidarity. The reality, as I've written before, is that Hispanics are like most voters: Pocketbook issues often trump social and cultural concerns (especially with unemployment as high as it is), and a party's overall brand matters more than its stance on a single issue. A more moderate Republican candidate will usually win more Hispanic votes - but only in the same way that a more moderate Republican candidate will usually win more votes in general.
The Hispanic community is also more internally divided on immigration than the elite consensus assumes. As you might expect from a large and demographically diverse population, there are Hispanic voters who oppose any kind of amnesty outright, and Hispanics who swing back and forth (again, like many Americans) depending on how poll questions are phrased. Even on an issue as controversial and racially charged as Arizona's recent immigration law, a Quinnipiac poll from earlier this year found Hispanics almost evenly divided: 49 percent opposed the law, but 47 percent supported it. This suggests that Republicans who take moderately restrictionist positions - for instance, by emphasizing their support for legal immigration while advocating tougher enforcement on the border, as Romney has been doing - aren't necessarily forfeiting the Hispanic vote by doing so.
The third leap is the idea that immigration is a wedge issue that only divides Republicans - by pitting moderates like Bush and business interests against the right's populists. The reality is that the Democratic coalition is almost as easily divided by the issue: Many working-class Democrats, white and African-American alike, are skeptical of immigration for the same reason that they're skeptical of free trade agreements - because both tend to expose them to competition from cheaper foreign labor - and there's a streak of anti-immigration populism running through the Democratic Party's rank and file in many regions of the country.
These Democratic divisions were a significant reason the Bush-era push for comprehensive immigration reform foundered repeatedly. It wasn't just that conservative Republicans rebelled against the White House-led effort to create a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. It was that the Democratic leadership wasn't eager to deliver the votes for a measure that could split their own party along lines of race and class.
What was true in Bush's second term will probably be true in a hypothetical second Obama term as well. There might be a bipartisan coalition for a relatively limited measure like the Dream Act, which provides a path to citizenship for college graduates who were brought to America as minors. But if Jeb Bush Republicans and Obama Democrats try to fast track a more comprehensive bill, they will be reminded that there are other sorts of Republicans and Democrats, and that bipartisanship cuts both ways. Even if the president wins re-election, the populist coalition that opposes amnesty may still be as large as - if not larger than - the elite coalition that supports it.

        
A Look at the Numbers
        
Down With Religion?
        
Political Dividends
        
Believing in Obama
        
Things That Really Matter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); POLITICS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (75%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%) amnesty; Barack Obama; George W. Bush; immigration; immigration reform; Jeb Bush; Mitt Romney; Ryan Lizza; Bush, George W; Bush, Jeb; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Illegal Immigrants; Immigration and Emigration; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; RealClearPolitics; Republican Party

COMPANY: FORBES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; RealClearPolitics; Republican Party

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%) Bush, George W; Bush, Jeb; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



478 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Navigating the Health Care Maze

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
BOSTON -- Even a self-described data nerd like Peter Kim was nearly undone by his hunt for health insurance.
Mr. Kim left the corporate world in 2005 to become an independent consultant, losing employer-sponsored insurance for his family of four. But researching individual health plans proved astoundingly complicated, he said. And most were too expensive, to boot.
''It was impossible to compare plans,'' said Mr. Kim, 42, who lives in Cambridge. ''I ultimately gave up trying.''
He and his wife resorted to catastrophic coverage, paying out of pocket for routine medical care -- until they discovered the health insurance exchange that Massachusetts set up in 2006. A linchpin of the state law passed under Mitt Romney as governor, which requires most residents to have health coverage, the exchange is an online marketplace meant to simplify buying insurance and thus help people find a plan they can afford. 
If the Supreme Court upholds President Obama's federal health care law in a decision expected this month, proponents say that exchanges will be a crucial tool for extending insurance to most Americans. Debate over the law has centered on the individual mandate, the lightning-rod provision that requires most Americans to have health insurance by 2014.
But once the court decides whether the law is constitutional, the focus could shift to exchanges.
The law requires every state to establish an exchange, but many are balking, complaining about everything from the expense to the perceived federal intrusion. Some, like Louisiana and Maine, are refusing. Others are deferring crucial decisions until the court rules and the November election plays out. So far, only about 15 states and the District of Columbia have established exchanges, with California and Maryland among the furthest in their planning.
The experience of Mr. Kim in Massachusetts, which with Utah is one of only two states with an exchange up and running, illustrates how exchanges are ideally supposed to work. After just an hour of research on the exchange's Web site, he says, he found a better deal. He enrolled in a plan through Harvard Pilgrim for which he pays $1,086 a month for his family.
The exchange, called the Health Connector, has been operating since Massachusetts passed its own individual mandate in 2006. For all the criticism that has been hurled at the state's health plan during this year's Republican presidential primaries, surprisingly little attention has been paid to this piece of the law.
Even if the Supreme Court strikes down the federal mandate, many people believe that some form of exchanges could still be crucial to expanding coverage in a number of states. In Massachusetts, insurers bid to participate in the Connector -- offering plans that include some level of hospitalization, prescription drugs, maternity care and other services deemed essential by the state -- and the Connector uses its market leverage and unique guidelines to promote innovation and competition among them.
''It can -- and it has -- helped people find more affordable options than they otherwise knew existed,'' said Glen Shor, executive director of the Connector.
But for all Mr. Kim's satisfaction, Connector officials acknowledge that they need more consumers like him -- full-paying customers who do not qualify for a government subsidy to offset their premiums. So far the program has drawn only about half of that population in the state's individual market, according to Connector officials.
Instead, about 82 percent of the roughly 224,000 people insured through the Connector have incomes low enough to qualify for state and federal subsidies. They pay a modest premium or none at all. This is precisely what many opponents of exchanges fear, that instead of a free marketplace they will become something resembling an extensive public welfare program.
The Connector has struggled mightily to attract another important constituent of the national health care overhaul efforts -- small businesses, which have long complained of being priced out of the health insurance market.
While the Massachusetts law requires that many small companies offer coverage to their employees or pay a penalty, many have seen no incentives to buy insurance through the Connector, said Joshua Archambault, director of health care policy at the Pioneer Institute, a conservative research organization here. About 1,700 small businesses currently insure a total of 4,320 people through the Connector -- only a minute fraction of that market.
''It means that an entire group that was promised reform has not seen it,'' Mr. Archambault said.
Mr. Shor said the Connector was taking steps to attract more small companies, this year adding more ''popular, brand-name'' insurance carriers to the options for small businesses, including Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts. It also added a wellness program that allows rebates of 15 percent off the employer's share of premium costs if certain conditions are met.
Amy Whitcomb Slemmer, executive director of Health Care For All, an advocacy group in Boston, said she was worried about the large number of customers in the nonsubsidized program -- 52 percent of them -- choosing so-called bronze plans, which have the lowest monthly premiums. Those plans tend to have high deductibles (up to $4,000 for a family) and maximum out-of-pocket costs, meaning that people who get sick often end up paying a lot.
''We are growing increasingly concerned about high-deductible plans that seem like a short-term solution to folks,'' Ms. Whitcomb Slemmer said. ''We spend a tremendous amount of time helping people understand what risk they're taking.''
For Andrea Cunningham of Watertown, a bronze plan was the most realistic option. She quickly found insurance for her family of three through the Connector after her husband lost his job in February. Sitting at her dining room table with a laptop, Ms. Cunningham, 30, typed in her age and that of her husband, their ZIP code and the number of people in their family. Within seconds, her options -- several dozen plans in all -- popped up.
The best part, she said, was how simple it was to compare the standardized plans -- how much each charged in co-pays for prescriptions, doctor visits and hospital stays, for example. ''It was super-easy to take a quick look and figure out which price range we wanted,'' she said, ''and then dive down deep into one or two of them.''
She chose a bronze plan for which she and her husband, who is still out of work, pay about $900 a month.
A vast majority of the people who have gotten insurance through the Connector since the economic downturn began have not had to worry about deductibles because they qualify for subsidized coverage. In that program, the big challenge has been keeping costs down as enrollment has steadily climbed.
One strategy has been to reward the lowest-cost insurers in Commonwealth Care, the subsidized program, by driving customers to them. (For example, people who pay no premium because of their income can choose between the two lowest-cost insurers.) Some insurers have responded by limiting which doctors and hospitals customers can use.
Such limitations are controversial, but Mr. Shor said limited-network plans are just the kind of cost-saving innovation that exchanges are well-positioned to bring about by promoting competition in the market.
If the Supreme Court upholds the national health care law, the Connector will face significant changes. Many of its subsidized customers will be shifted to Medicaid under the law's expansion of that program. So attracting more customers to the nonsubsidized program will be crucial, said Nancy Turnbull, an associate dean at the Harvard School of Public Health who sits on the Connector's board.
''For the exchange to continue to be a big purchaser and have market clout,'' she said, ''we're going to need to be successful at adding more small employers and potentially other populations.''
For First Church in Cambridge, which enrolled its seven employees in Commonwealth Choice this year after facing a 10 percent rate increase on its old plan, the switch has been worth it. The church is still paying 3 percent more than last year for its new policy, through Tufts Health Plan, and employees are paying more for nongeneric drugs than under their old plan. But the Rev. Karen McArthur, affiliate minister of stewardship, said the church hoped to save 15 percent by joining the new wellness program.
''Even though there were a lot of things we had to do to make our internal policies work for what they were offering,'' Ms. McArthur said, ''there was some energy for doing that. We really wanted to participate in this, because we really believe in it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Peter Kim says his initial experience trying to obtain health insurance for his family was daunting. He ultimately found coverage online through Health Connector, a Massachusetts program. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN McGLINN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: States' Progress on Exchanges: The health care law, now under review by the Supreme Court, requires states to have health insurance exchanges by January 2014. Some states have made extensive plans, while others have done little. (Sources: Department of Health and Human Services
 National Conference of State Legislatures) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (54%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



479 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Import Prices Fell 1% in May, as Food and Energy Costs Ebbed

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Prices of imported goods in the United States posted their largest decline in nearly two years in May as energy and food costs fell, pointing to muted inflation pressures amid slowing global demand. 
The Labor Department said on Tuesday that import prices fell 1.0 percent, the biggest drop since June 2010, after being flat in April. In the 12 months to May, import prices fell 0.3 percent, posting their first year-on-year decline since October 2009, also reflecting a stronger dollar.
The data was the latest sign that falling energy prices were keeping inflation pressures well contained and offered evidence of weakening global demand as the debt crisis in Europe worsened.
Against the backdrop of a sputtering economic recovery, economists said the benign inflation environment gave the Federal Reserve some scope to ease policy further through either another round of government bond purchases, also known as quantitative easing, or other measures to keep interest rates down.
''Price pressures have come off sharply since April,'' said Ellen Zentner, senior economist at Nomura Securities, ''giving the Federal Open Market Committee some breathing room should they want to implement more quantitative easing.''
But the Fed is not expected to announce new policy initiatives at its two-day meeting next week. Economic activity has cooled off significantly, with job growth braking sharply in the past three months.
Last month, imported petroleum prices dropped 4.2 percent, the largest fall in two years, after slipping 0.7 percent in April. Weak petroleum prices should help to further lower the cost of gasoline, freeing up income for households.
Imported food prices fell 0.7 percent last month after edging up 0.1 percent in April. Outside fuels and food, import prices were unchanged, with the cost of automobiles and industrial supplies and materials declining.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT PRICES (94%); IMPORT TRADE (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FUEL MARKETS (87%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BONDS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEBT CRISIS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); EVIDENCE (55%); EURO CRISIS (54%); INTEREST RATES (53%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



480 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 889 words

PERSON: Elinor Ostrom 

HEADLINE: Elinor Ostrom, Winner of Nobel in Economics, Dies at 78

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Elinor Ostrom, the only woman to win the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science -- an achievement all the more remarkable because she was not actually an economist -- died on Tuesday in Bloomington, Ind. She was 78.
The cause was cancer, according to Indiana University, where she taught for many years. 
Professor Ostrom's work rebutted fundamental economic beliefs. But to say she was a dark horse for the 2009 economics Nobel is an understatement. Not because she was a woman -- although women in the field are still rare -- but because she was trained in political science.
Professor Ostrom's prizewinning work examined how people collaborate and organize themselves to manage common resources like forests or fisheries, even when governments are not involved. The research overturned the conventional wisdom about the need for government regulation of public resources.
At least it did for the economists who knew who she was and had read her work.
''The announcement of her prize caused amazement to several economists, including some prominent colleagues, who had never even heard of her,'' Avinash Dixit, a Princeton economics professor, said when introducing Professor Ostrom's work at a luncheon in 2011. Usually, he noted, Nobel laureates need no introduction.
In fact, when the Nobel recipients were announced, some economists mistakenly thought the prize had gone to Bengt Holmstrom, an economist with a similar-sounding (and, to economists, much more recognizable) name. One prominent scholar acknowledged visiting Wikipedia to figure out who exactly she was.
Surprise at Professor Ostrom's honor, which she shared with Oliver E. Williamson, in some cases gave way to disdain and name-calling on economics blogs.
''Some things said about her in blogs and other media were so ignorant and in such bad taste that I felt ashamed on behalf of the economics profession,'' Mr. Dixit said.
Professor Ostrom was not the first laureate to hail from outside the field. Previous recipients include Daniel Kahneman (psychologist), John Nash (a mathematician who was the subject of the book and movie ''A Beautiful Mind'') and Leonid Hurwicz (trained in law).
As with these other winners, the outsider perspective Professor Ostrom brought to the field contributed to what made her work so groundbreaking. But the unconventional nature of her studies also made it difficult for her to find a foothold in academia earlier in her career.
''A lot of important questions are on the narrow borders between disciplines, but it is difficult to find a home for that kind of work,'' said Marco Janssen, a mathematician at Arizona State University who collaborated with Professor Ostrom. ''She had experienced many of these challenges over the years. Eventually she and her husband just created their own center for it.''
In 1973, Professor Ostrom and her husband, Vincent, who survives her, founded the Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis at Indiana University. It would become the first of several interdisciplinary institutions she helped shape, and a locus for her collaboration with scholars across academia, including ecologists, computer scientists and psychologists.
Just as her academic habits emphasized collaboration and cooperation, so did the content of her study.
Traditionally, economics taught that common ownership of resources results in excessive exploitation, as when fishermen overfish a common pond. This is the so-called tragedy of the commons, and it suggests that common resources must be managed either through privatization or government regulation, in the form of taxes, say, or limits on use.
Professor Ostrom studied cases around the world in which communities successfully regulated resource use through cooperation. Her work has important applications for climate change policy today.
Professor Ostrom's research and Mr. Williamson's related work on corporate oversight are part of a field known as institutional economics. Some economists still debate whether the field deserves a rightful place within the economics discipline.
Elinor Awan was born on Aug. 7, 1933, in Los Angeles, an only child. She often spoke about how growing up in the Depression had influenced her interest in cooperative institutions. She recalled helping her family grow food in a large garden and knitting scarves for soldiers. She received her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees -- all in political science -- at the University of California, Los Angeles.
As a researcher she was notable for conducting fieldwork, an unusual method that is admired by some economists but scorned by others. In 1964, when she was working on her dissertation, fieldwork was considered the province of anthropologists, not academics trying to answer economic questions.
''She would go and actually talk to Indonesian fisherman, or Maine lobstermen, and ask, 'How did you come to establish this limit on the fish catch? How did you deal with the fact that people might try to get around it?' '' said Nancy Folbre, an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and a contributor to The New York Times's Economix blog.
''In economics, every successive cohort of economists is trained to put greater emphasis on the arsenal of mathematical and econometric expertise,'' Professor Folbre said. ''That was just not what her work was about.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elinor Ostrom at a press event in 2009 for her Nobel award. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN SOMMERS II /REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AWARDS & PRIZES (92%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); CANCER (72%); FISHERIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Colleges and Universities

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



481 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Struggles With Latest Storm, Newspaper Layoffs

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; David Carr contributed reporting from New York, and Kyle Whitmire from Birmingham, Ala.

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- Brett Anderson kept his face out of the paper and gave fake names when making reservations, as dining critics customarily do, but in a town like New Orleans he was not fooling many people. They know Mr. Anderson by sight, just as they knew that a reporter named Katy Reckdahl had had a baby in New Orleans 24 hours before Hurricane Katrina hit -- she wrote a big article about it in the paper five years later, but people knew.
It is one thing to find out that the print edition of the paper will disappear four days a week, as the owners of The Times-Picayune announced in May. But it is another thing to find out that so many familiar names -- people that the city went through a flood with, like Mr. Anderson and Ms. Reckdahl -- may be gone, too.
In New Orleans and across the state of Alabama on Tuesday, as part of a basic restructuring of the news business at four papers owned by Advance Publications, scores of employees walked into one-on-one meetings and walked out 10 minutes later with severance packages. They included advertising employees, copy editors, press operators, crime reporters, photographers and graphic artists. 
The Web site al.com, the online site for The Birmingham News, The Huntsville Times and The Mobile Press-Register, reported that 400 employees in Alabama would ''experience an employment loss.''
The Birmingham News had a newsroom of 102 going into Tuesday; by the end of the day 61 were gone. The Times-Picayune laid off more than 200 people, or nearly a third of its overall staff.
''Change is what it is,'' said Charles J. Dean, senior political reporter for The Birmingham News. ''It's difficult. I was notified this morning that I simply didn't fit, that in the 10-thousand-foot view that they're using that they didn't have room for a Chuck Dean.''
It is unclear how many of these positions are going to be refilled, and by whom. Jim Amoss, the editor of The Times-Picayune, said that while about half the newsroom was let go on Tuesday -- around 84 people -- a coming series of hires would mean that by fall the newsroom would be smaller by only about 32 people. The decisions about whom to lay off, he said, were made for both economic reasons and as part of a new digital approach to journalism.
''We knew two things about our future,'' Mr. Amoss said. ''One, that it would have to be digitally focused, and the other, that we would have to reduce the overall size of the company. And both of those factors played into the decision of how to go forward.''
Mr. Amoss did not deny a concern raised by returning reporters that they would be compensated based on page views or other gauges of online popularity, emphasizing only that their base salaries would be comparable to what they earn now and ''they'll be operating in a digital world, and how they do will be evaluated.''
New Orleans, in particular, has not taken all of this lightly. This is a city that is fiercely protective of its institutions, that roundly laments the closing of a bar others might dismiss as an eyesore, that still gets angry at the thought that the Saints might have moved elsewhere after Katrina.
Residents may have their grievances with the paper, and often air them while studying it at cafes or over breakfast at Betsy's Pancake House, where it is practically the tablecloth. But that is family business.
A letter deploring the shortened new publication schedule was released on June 4, featuring scores of signatories, including university presidents, chefs, chief executives, civic activists and even the archbishop of New Orleans. Businesses that have bought considerable advertising space in the paper declared their objections to the changes as well.
Satirical signs about the paper's new leadership have been stapled to poles, a suitably analog form of protest, and bars have advertised drinks on the house for Times-Picayune staff members.
Meanwhile, behind the scenes a group of prominent citizens have been lobbying the owners of the paper to change their minds about the new model, floating a range of ideas, like having all the hotels in the city promise to switch to The Times-Picayune as the morning paper for guests rather than national papers like USA Today.
Members of this group have also been trying to woo other publishers to enter New Orleans as competition, raising the possibility of helping The Advocate in Baton Rouge move more aggressively into the market.
''The people of our city have been extremely loyal to The Times-Picayune,'' said Anne Milling, one of the most high-profile figures in the support campaign. ''However, that loyalty is greatly diminished by such drastic cuts and the manner in which they were carried out.''
Steven Newhouse, chairman of Advance.net, said that while he expected that people in New Orleans would be upset by the change in publishing frequency, the company was committed to reducing the print publishing schedule and some of the costs that go with it.
''We think the best change to keep it going as a quality news operation is to enhance the digital product,'' he said. And he said that talk of local owners buying The Times-Picayune missed something: ''We have no intention of selling, no matter how much noise there is out there.''
Regional newspapers have been hit particularly hard by large changes in advertiser and consumer behavior. The newspaper industry's revenues are half what they were in 2005, which has led to a series of layoffs at newspapers big and small.
Advance Publications decided that rather than wait until its newspapers no longer made money, it was going to make large staff cuts and eliminate the cost of delivering newspapers on days when there was very little advertising. The hope is that a hybrid product of print and digital offerings will be economically viable in the long term.
But on Tuesday there was only the short term, and the Twitter account of The Gambit, the city's alternative weekly, which The Times-Picayune staff members followed to see who had been invited back and who was laid off.
''People who know where the bodies are buried, people who know who had what fight with which person 30 years ago,'' said Stephanie Grace, an editorial columnist for The Times-Picayune, who was invited to come back as a news reporter. ''This is the stuff you need to know in New Orleans.''
Ms. Grace is not the only journalist whose job title will change if she chooses to stay. Several of those who were invited back said they knew little of what to expect, even what their titles meant, and could not get their questions answered.
John Archibald, for example, a columnist for The Birmingham News popular for sending barbs at city and state political figures, was told he could return as a ''local buzz reporter.'' Joey Kennedy, a Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial writer for The News, has been invited to come back as a ''community engagement specialist.''
By midday, The Times-Picayune newsroom was almost as empty as the bottle of booze that someone had brought in that morning and set up in the Money section. The meetings were winding down, and people had been given permission to go home, though more than a few were heading out for bars and restaurants to figure all of it out.
''This place is a sarcophagus,'' said Bruce Nolan, who found out on Tuesday that his four-decade tenure as a reporter at the paper would be ending in September. ''What the hell is going to be in The Times-Picayune tomorrow?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Times-Picayune in New Orleans laid off nearly a third of its overall staff on Tuesday, including about half of the newsroom employees. It had already announced cutting back to three days of newspaper production a week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM WIDMER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); HURRICANE KATRINA (79%); JOURNALISM (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (75%); DISMISSALS (72%); HURRICANES (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (67%); VISUAL ARTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (98%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (56%) LOUISIANA, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



482 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER, BEN PROTESS, NEIL GOUGH and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
PAY INCREASE Chief executives of Britain's 100 largest publicly traded companies received a median pay increase of 10 percent last year, according to a report released on Tuesday. 
That is higher than Britain's inflation rate of 3 percent, and the median executive package was about 200 times the average pay of employees in the private sector. Robert E. Diamond Jr. of Barclays, above, who made $:21 million, was the highest-paid executive in the survey. JULIA WERDIGIER
FUND-RAISER United Technologies, one of the world's largest makers of elevators and aircraft engines, announced on Tuesday that it would seek to raise $1 billion to help finance its takeover of the Goodrich Corporation.
United Technologies, based in Hartford, Conn., will offer 20 million ''equity units'' at $50 each, the company said in a regulatory filing. The units will include corporate shares and debt notes that come due in 2022. BEN PROTESS
ON THE DEFENSE Qantas Airways of Australia has hired the investment bank Macquarie to provide advice on fending off potential hostile takeover bids after its shares plunged to their lowest levels since the company was privatized in 1995.
Shares in Qantas, based in Sydney, have declined 26 percent this year as the carrier struggles with high fuel costs and increased competition. Alan Joyce, above, the chief executive of Qantas, said the airline had not been approached with offers but was preparing for ''a whole range of scenarios.'' NEIL GOUGH
RETURN ENGAGEMENT Goldman Sachs has rehired Mark Schwartz to serve as the chairman of the bank's Asia-Pacific region and as a vice chairman of the overall bank.
Mr. Schwartz is well known at Goldman, which he joined in 1979 as a banker. He was a partner by the time the company went public in 1999, and he left a few years later. SUSANNE CRAIG
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); AIRCRAFT ENGINE MFG (90%); AIRLINES (90%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (79%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); DEBT NOTES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GOODRICH CORP (83%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (69%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); QAN (ASX) (69%); UTX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (83%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (83%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (83%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (69%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (55%) CONNECTICUT, USA (55%) ASIA (77%); UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



483 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Why Berlin Is Balking on a Bailout

BYLINE: By HANS-WERNER SINN. 
Hans-Werner Sinn is the president of the Ifo Institute and the director of the Center for Economic Studies at the University of Munich.

 BODY:
Munich
ALTHOUGH Europe may seem far away from the economic life of the average American, the fate of the euro zone weighs heavily on the United States economy. Pension funds have invested in bonds issued by southern European states, while banks and insurance companies have underwritten a sizable fraction of the credit-default swaps protecting investors against default.
It's no wonder, then, that President Obama is urging Germany to share in the debt of the euro zone's southern nations. But in doing so, he and others overlook several critical facts. 
For one thing, such a bailout is illegal under the Maastricht Treaty, which governs the euro zone. Because the treaty is law in each member state, a bailout would be rejected by Germany's Constitutional Court.
Moreover, a bailout doesn't make economic sense, and would likely make the situation worse. Such schemes violate the liability principle, one of the constituting principles of a market economy, which holds that it is the creditors' responsibility to choose their debtors. If debtors cannot repay, creditors should bear the losses.
If we give up the liability principle, the European market economy will lose its most important allocative virtue: the careful selection of investment opportunities by creditors. We would then waste part of the capital generated by the arduous savings of earlier generations. I am surprised that the president of the world's most successful capitalist nation would overlook this.
This does not mean there can be no systematic risk-sharing between the states of Europe. But for that to happen, the countries should first form a common nation, with a constitution, a common legal superstructure, a monopoly on power to ensure obedience to the law and a common army for external defense.
Otherwise, there is nothing to counter the strong centrifugal forces created by redistribution schemes, which would inevitably lead to political eruptions that would threaten the stability of the Continent. The European Union has enjoyed a long period of stability because it abstained from sizable interregional redistribution. This period would end if we redistributed incomes or debt without creating a United States of Europe.
Unfortunately, not one of these conditions is met in Europe today and won't be in the foreseeable future, because the euro zone countries, above all France, are unwilling to give up sufficient sovereignty.
Even a European nation, however, should not socialize debt, a lesson demonstrated by the United States in the 19th century.
When Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton socialized the states' war debt after the Revolutionary War, he raised the expectation of further debt socialization in the future, which induced the states to over-borrow. This resulted in political tensions in the early 19th century that severely threatened the stability of the young nation.
It took the experience of eight states and territories going bankrupt in the 1830s and 1840s for the United States to shed socialization. Today no one suggests bailing out California, which is nearly bankrupt but is expected to find its own solutions.
Criticism of bailouts in general does not mean, however, that Europe should eschew immediate help to crisis-stricken southern European countries. While help to avoid insolvency is dangerous, help to overcome brief liquidity crises is justified. The European Economic Advisory Group, an international think tank, has proposed providing liquidity help in the first two years of a crisis, with selective defaults according to maturity and socialization of excessive losses thereafter.
We are, however, already in the fifth year of generous liquidity help to Europe's uncompetitive members. Since late 2007, the European Central Bank has helped with an international shift of refinancing credit, also known as Target credit, from the core euro states to the periphery, to which the German Bundesbank has contributed $874 billion. Greece's and Portugal's entire current account deficits were financed that way.
Moreover, since May 2010, the E.C.B. has bought more than $250 billion in government bonds, while nearly $500 billion has come from rescue programs and help from the I.M.F. Add to that two European rescue funds, and you have a total of $2.63 trillion.
It is unfair for critics to ask Germany to bear even more risk. Should Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain go bankrupt and repay nothing, while the euro survives, Germany would lose $899 billion. Should the euro fail, Germany would lose over $1.35 trillion, more than 40 percent of its G.D.P. Has the United States ever incurred a similar risk for helping other countries?
Some critics have argued that Germany, having benefited from the Marshall Plan, now owes it to Europe to undertake a similar rescue. Those critics should look at the numbers.
Greece has received or been promised $575 billion through assistance efforts, including Target credit, E.C.B. bond purchases and a haircut after a debt moratorium. Compare this with the Marshall Plan, for which Germany is very grateful. It received 0.5 percent of its G.D.P. for four years, or 2 percent in total. Applied to the Greek G.D.P., this would be about $5 billion today.
In other words, Greece has received a staggering 115 Marshall plans, 29 from Germany alone, and yet the situation has not improved. Why, Mr. Obama, is that not enough?

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YAREK WASZUL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); POLITICS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



484 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Fossil Fuels and New Energy

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
There were brewery assembly line workers, pioneers on the prairie and plenty of detectives in the spring of 1978, but it was hard to find a rich person in prime time.
The closest thing to a millionaire was Ricardo Montalban as a mysterious resort owner on ''Fantasy Island,'' or the voice of John Forsythe, the never-seen boss on ''Charlie's Angels.'' The title of ''The Six Million Dollar Man'' referred to a government line-item expense, not the hero's net worth.
That was way back when Jimmy Carter was president, inflation was edging upward, the Amoco Cadiz oil spill was still blackening the shores of Brittany, and the three broadcast networks offered a steady flow of mirth and good intentions. ''Laverne & Shirley'' and ''Three's Company'' were top-rated comedies, and ''Charlie's Angels'' and ''Little House on the Prairie'' were the most popular dramas on television. 
And that's why so many almanacs and timelines list the premiere of ''Dallas'' on CBS on April 2, 1978, as a cultural turning point. It's hard sometimes to remember how different that show was: a daytime soap opera refashioned for night, where family, envy, sex, greed and oil money roiled a Texas ranch called Southfork. By the time it finally shut down in 1991, ''Dallas'' was almost willfully a joke, but it wasn't so campy at first, and it was certainly addictive. There wasn't much to watch back then, and nothing else on television was anywhere as racy.
A spinoff, ''Knots Landing,'' came soon after, then ''Falcon Crest'' and ''Dynasty,'' but ''Dallas'' was the first and the most subversive.
It was ''Dallas'' that broke the rules by focusing on the rich, and in particular a slimy, villainous hero, J. R. Ewing, played by Larry Hagman, and his neglected, self-pitying wife, Sue Ellen (Linda Gray), who wore expensive clothes and, swirling a heavy glass tumbler, drank too much.
On Wednesday TNT begins a resurrected ''Dallas'' that doesn't meet expectations, let alone defy them. This version is palely faithful to the original without any of its seditious zest.
Following a time-honored telenovela subplot, this ''Dallas'' is the true heir who comes home to find he has been displaced by a snazzier impostor. ''Revenge,'' on ABC, which is a modern-day ''Dallas'' or ''Dynasty'' set in the Hamptons, keeps a straight face as it wallows in soapy suspense and arch satire.
''Dallas'' is a look at a new generation of Ewings that feels old and even stodgy.
Most of the principals, except Victoria Principal, are back: Mr. Hagman as an older but still treacherous J. R.; Patrick Duffy as the virtuous Bobby Ewing; and Ms. Gray as Sue Ellen, now sober and civic-minded.
Seeing those artfully preserved faces is fun for a while, but all three actors seem needlessly limited to the most narrow interpretations of their old roles. Mr. Hagman, whose snowy white eyebrows twist upward like the tip of a handlebar mustache, is all bad, all the time, without the mitigating insecurities and vestigial family loyalties that made J. R. stand out in the first place.
The younger Ewings have polished, generic good looks without distinguishing marks on their faces -- or their personalities.
The one hilarious element is the effort to update the story. The writers have reconstituted the feuds of the second generation of Ewings as an allegory about clean energy versus fossil fuels: Bobby's sweet, well-meaning son, Christopher (Jesse Metcalfe), has turned his back on drilling and wants to develop methane hydrates as an energy source. He spends a lot of time on Skype with Chinese scientists. ''I know that I can make Ewing Alternative Energies the next Exxon,'' he tells his proud father.
J. R.'s son, John Ross (Josh Henderson), is of course a fracking maniac who wants to drill all over Southfork and will scheme, lie and connive to get his way. The two cousins clash over women as well, particularly Elena (Jordana Brewster), the beautiful, oil-minded daughter of the family's longtime cook.
The opening theme music is the same (minus the early syncopated underbeat that gave Texas a bit of ''Super Fly'' sass). The camera once again skirts the Dallas skyline and swoops down over the Southfork ranch house, which once looked imposing but by today's standards of wealth -- adjusted for oligarchs and hedge fund managers -- looks quite modest.
In 1978 the Texas economy was booming, while the rest of the country was still struggling. Rich Texans were loud, proud, vulgar, exotic and extravagant. (The Neiman Marcus Christmas catalog that year offered a $600 all-chocolate Monopoly game.) There is still plenty of money in Texas, but attention, and wasteful extravagance, have shifted elsewhere, to Internet moguls, billionaires, Wall Street bond traders and Russian tycoons. They are the ones buying Park Avenue mansions, basketball teams and art.
Texans used to be big hat; now they are old hat. So, unfortunately, is ''Dallas.''
Dallas
TNT, Wednesday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Produced by Warner Horizon Television. Developed by Cynthia Cidre; created by David Jacobs; Ms. Cidre and Michael M. Robin, executive producers.
WITH: Larry Hagman (J. R. Ewing), Patrick Duffy (Bobby Ewing), Linda Gray (Sue Ellen Ewing), Josh Henderson (John Ross Ewing), Jesse Metcalfe (Christopher Ewing), Jordana Brewster (Elena Ramos), Julie Gonzalo (Rebecca Sutter) and Brenda Strong (Ann Ewing).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dallas: Larry Hagman as J. R. in the resurrected series, on TNT on Wednesday nights at 9, Eastern and Pacific times
8, Central time. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZADE ROSENTHAL/TNT)(C1)
 Josh Henderson, left, and Jesse Metcalfe play the sons of J. R. and Bobby Ewing in the new ''Dallas.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK HEINILA/TNT)(C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION DRAMAS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (69%); OIL SPILLS (69%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (67%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%); BRETAGNE, FRANCE (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (72%)

TITLE: Dallas (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



485 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: As Euro Crisis Persists, World Bank Predicts Slow Growth of Global Output

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The World Bank on Tuesday warned that fears about the euro zone had reduced investors' tolerance for risk, and it urged poorer economies to protect themselves by reducing their debts.
In the report, a scheduled update to the bank's overview of the global economy, the bank forecasts sluggish growth in high-income countries, like Japan, Germany and the United States, in the coming years. It expects more modest growth in the middle-income economies that have been the engine of the global recovery, like China and Brazil. And it sees developing countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America experiencing slower growth than they have for most of the last decade.
''The world is at a very difficult juncture,'' said Andrew Burns, a lead author of the report, in an interview, citing fears about the stability of the euro zone, slower growth in emerging economies and pervasive market uncertainty as major factors. 
The report concluded that ''renewed market nervousness'' about the euro area had ''caused the price of risk to spike upwards globally.'' The bank largely maintained the dreary economic forecasts it made in January, when it significantly cut its growth expectations and warned of a shock ''similar in magnitude to the Lehman crisis'' as a worst case. It now expects global output to increase 2.5 percent in 2012 and 3 percent in 2013. In January, it forecast that global output would grow 2.5 percent this year and 3.1 percent next year.
From 2004 to 2007, before the financial crisis hit, the global economy grew at an annual rate of roughly 5 percent, according to International Monetary Fund data.
Compared with other forecasters, the World Bank's predictions are slightly more pessimistic. The I.M.F., for instance, foresees growth of 3.5 percent in 2012 and 4.1 percent in 2013. The global outlook brightened early in 2012, the report said, as European leaders promised to devote more money to end their crisis and policy changes to further unite the Continent. In response, European bond yields fell and investment ticked up. But the calm of the winter has dissipated in the spring.
Investors have returned to punishing a variety of European bonds, pushing Spain to request a bailout for its faltering banks last weekend. Political uncertainty is rife as well, with a Greek exit from the euro zone increasingly mentioned as a possibility.
In the last few months, fearful investors have again cut their risk exposure, pulling money from around the world and parking it in the safety of assets like American bonds. Capital flows to developing countries fell an astonishing 44 percent from April to May, Mr. Burns said in an interview.
Such market gyrations are likely to be fairly common in the postcrisis period, the bank said, and the effects will be felt globally. ''Sharp swings in investor sentiment and financial conditions will continue to complicate the conduct of macro policy in developing countries,'' the report said.
Still, the bank sees Europe muddling through its sovereign debt crisis without any market catastrophe, and the world maintaining its lackluster but steady growth path, as the most likely outcome. The forecast is not entirely reassuring, however. Economists at the World Bank, like most forecasters, have failed to foresee crises in the past, and are warning of significant uncertainties ahead.
''This is the third May or June in a row where Europe has been embroiled in tensions,'' Mr. Burns said. ''In each and every previous incident, it has calmed towards the end of June. That is our baseline expectation.''
The bank strongly reiterated a warning to developing countries in the report: prepare for market turbulence by strengthening your balance sheets, such as by cutting deficits and reducing short-term debt exposures.
According to the bank's data, about 40 percent of developing countries were running a surplus in 2007, before the global downturn began. Last year, just 19 percent were. ''That doesn't mean that their policies have deteriorated,'' Mr. Burns said, suggesting that the swing was largely the result of the crisis. But Mr. Burns noted that the countries' relatively strong fiscal position heading into the crisis served them well, and he urged them to ''move in that direction once again.''
More generally, the bank's economists said that while Europe might pose a short-term threat to middle- and lower-income countries, in the long term their prospects and growth trajectories remained strong.
In the case of China, for instance, growth ''doesn't depend on domestic demand in high-income countries, and ultimately it doesn't depend on their export demand,'' said Hans Timmer, the director of the World Bank's development prospects group. Future growth would instead come largely from within the country and other poorer but fast-growing economies, he said.
Officials at the bank also warned that high-income countries were not making the changes necessary to ensure that their economies would be competitive, prolonging their periods of economic malaise and losing ground to the rest of the world. Such changes might include reducing long-term deficits, making certain industries more competitive or investing in infrastructure.
''In high-income countries, a good crisis is being wasted,'' said Mr. Timmer.
On Tuesday, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, also warned of a global growth slowdown and renewed threats to financial markets.
''We need a strategy that is good for stability and good for growth,'' Ms. Lagarde said at a Center for Global Development event in Washington, according to her prepared remarks. ''This must start with the advanced economies, especially in Europe.'' Ms. Lagarde urged ''very accommodating monetary policy,'' ''direct support to banks'' and ''growth-friendly'' fiscal policies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BONDS (89%); EURO (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); BOND MARKETS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); STATISTICS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); AFRICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



486 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Is Lifted by Speculation That the Federal Reserve Will Act to Spur the Economy

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced on Tuesday, rebounding from a decline on Monday, amid speculation the Federal Reserve will act to stimulate the economy and after the European Central Bank endorsed a plan to guarantee bank deposits. 
All 10 groups in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose, with commodity, financial and industrial shares having the biggest gains. Boeing stock rose 3.5 percent as Sanford C. Bernstein & Company raised its recommendation. Textron shares rallied 4 percent after Berkshire Hathaway agreed to buy its planes. Stock in First Solar surged 21 percent after it delayed the closing of a German plant to meet European demand.
The S.& P. 500 advanced 15.25 points, or 1.17 percent, to 1,324.18; the Dow Jones industrial average rose 162.57 points, or 1.31 percent, to 12,573.80; and the Nasdaq composite index rose 33.34 points, or 1.19 percent, to 2,843.07. ''It has been a bit schizophrenic,'' said Mark D. Luschini, chief investment strategist for Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia.
''What's taking place in the Spanish bond market is troubling,'' Mr. Luschini said. ''Yet pessimism is so high that the prospect of any relief would be enough to jump-start a rally in equities. It seems investors are desperate for continued liquidity injections.''
Stocks rose after Charles L. Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said he would support measures to generate faster job growth. The Federal Open Market Committee, which sets policy, will meet next week. Equities also gained as the European Central Bank backed a European Commission proposal to guarantee deposits.
Earlier Tuesday, stocks fell as Spain's bond yields climbed to a record after Fitch Ratings said the nation would ''significantly'' miss its budget deficit targets.
The crisis in Spain, coinciding with the prospect that Greece will leave the euro after elections Sunday, has roiled markets. Benchmark gauges fell Monday, reversing early gains, as optimism over Spain's bailout plan gave way to skepticism it will end the debt crisis.
Interest rates in the United States rose, reversing a decline on Monday. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 9/32, to 100 25/32, and the yield rose to 1.66 percent from 1.59 percent late Monday.
''We're going to just keep playing this game until there's some final outcome of what's going to happen with the euro,'' said Tom Wirth, senior investment officer for Chemung Canal Trust Company. ''Europe is a total disaster.''
Optimism among global asset allocators ''collapsed'' this month as Europe's debt crisis prompted money managers to sell stocks and hoard cash at the highest level since 2008, a Bank of America survey showed.
''It's not quite maximum bearish, but it's close,'' the Bank of America strategists Michael Hartnett and Gary Baker wrote in the report to clients Tuesday. ''Optimism has collapsed back to lows of autumn 2011.''
A two-month decline that drove the S.& P. 500 to the cheapest valuation since November gave way to the biggest rally in 2012 last week.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); EURO (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); BOND MARKETS (87%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); CREDIT BUREAUS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEBT NOTES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); CLOSINGS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (66%); CHEMUNG CANAL TRUST CO (61%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (57%); BOEING CO (57%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (84%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (57%); BRK.A (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (72%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (61%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (61%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (57%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); GREECE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



487 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; DINER'S JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: New Orleans Paper Lays Off Its Food Critic

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN; Glenn Collins contributed reporting.

 BODY:
5:53 p.m. Updated
Brett Anderson, the award-winning restaurant critic and food writer, was among more than 200 employees laid off on Tuesday by The Times-Picayune of New Orleans. He confirmed the decision in an interview, saying that New Orleans and its food community would remain central to his work as a writer. 
Just last month, Mr. Anderson was awarded a prestigious fellowship to the Nieman Foundation for Journalism, based on his work at The Times-Picayune, where he has worked since 2000.
He assiduously covered the progress of the city's food businesses after Hurricane Katrina, waiting three years to write reviews while chronicling the efforts to put the city's famous food scene back on its feet. Later, he wrote extensively about the effects of the BP oil spill on the local food supply.
Mr. Anderson, 41, said he was told that the reason for the dismissal was the fellowship, which would have taken him away from the newsroom for most of 2013. But he had applied to the program with the full support of the same editors who dismissed him Tuesday. ''It was always my intention to return, and everyone knew that,'' he said.
The news spread swiftly over Twitter on Tuesday morning; Mr. Anderson has a large following among American food lovers.
''Brett is not just anybody, he's a serious food writer with a nationwide reputation in a town whose whole economy is built around the hospitality industry,'' said Anthony Bourdain, the chef, author and TV personality, who has traveled frequently to New Orleans for two years as a writer for the HBO series ''Treme.''
New Orleans is among the most influential food cities in the nation, with its unique brew of Creole, Southern, Cajun, French and Spanish influences.
The New Orleans chef Donald Link, whose restaurants Cochon and Herbsaint have helped redefine the modern cuisine of the city, said: ''I disagree wholeheartedly with the decision to lose somebody like Brett. He brought huge credibility to our city by the way he wrote and talked about what we have been trying to do here, giving a new framework to traditional food.''
Some of those laid off were offered a new job within the Nola Media Group, but Mr. Anderson said he was not among them. That newly formed company, owned by the giant Advance Publications, will publish The Times-Picayune and its Web site starting in the fall. The new media group previously announced that the newspaper would be published only three days a week.
During his fellowship, Mr. Anderson plans to write about the role of food and restaurants in communities hit by disasters, and about the role of New Orleans in the rise of the celebrity chef culture. That work will not appear in The Times-Picayune.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); WRITERS (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HURRICANE KATRINA (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (73%); HURRICANES (70%); OIL SPILLS (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (95%) LOUISIANA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



488 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: A Suburban-Style Mall Is Rising in the Bronx

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
Indoor malls in New York have received a mixed reception. Outlets like Pier 17 at the South Street Seaport and the Albee Square Mall in Downtown Brooklyn have posted lackluster performances. But the shops at the Time Warner Center and the Manhattan Mall in Midtown have generally been considered successes.
So the developers of the first suburban-style fashion mall to be built in New York City in nearly 40 years -- an indoor shopping center with several levels and bookended by department stores -- are taking something of a chance. 
The Mall at Bay Plaza, a 780,000-square-foot behemoth, broke ground last month in the Bronx and is scheduled for completion in 2014, at a cost of $300 million. Its developers, Prestige Properties, point to several factors that they say will ensure its success.
The mall's location, at the crossroads of the Hutchinson Parkway and Interstate 95 near Co-op City in the Bronx, is convenient to residents inside the borough as well as to suburban communities in Westchester County, the developer said. Some 1.4 million people live within a 10-mile radius.
And two strong anchor tenants, J. C. Penney and Macy's, are on board.
''This is an underserved market and we are confident it will draw crowds,'' said Sam Shalem, the chairman and chief executive of Prestige Properties. Prestige acquired the land on which the mall is being constructed in 1985, and it is part of a 78-acre site. The mall will be adjacent to the outdoor Bay Plaza Shopping Center, which has more than one million square feet of retail, including big-box stores like Barnes & Noble, Kmart and P. C. Richards, and 150,000 square feet of commercial office space. On the larger swath of land it owns there, Prestige has plans to eventually build residential towers, Mr. Shalem said.
The mall will create more than 2,000 construction jobs and 1,700 permanent jobs, according to the city and the developer. Prestige ''is casting a major vote of confidence in the future of the Bronx and the future of New York City,'' said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at the recent groundbreaking at the site, which was also attended by local officials.
Barry Fishbach, an executive vice president at the retail brokerage firm RKF, said having an outdoor mall next door would help attract shoppers.
The existing 150,000-square-foot J. C. Penney at the Bay Plaza Shopping Center will be attached to the new mall and join a new, ground-up Macy's department store as the anchor tenants.
The decision by Macy's to build a three-level, 160,000-square foot store at the site is a main reason Prestige Properties is moving ahead with developing the mall. ''We had been talking to Macy's for years, but we finally showed them the light,'' Mr. Shalem said, ''and it was in large part because a number of other stores in the shopping center, including J. C. Penney and Kmart, are in the No. 1 range for their respective chains'' in terms of sales.
Randy Scalise, the regional director of stores for Macy's, said, ''We had been interested in the site for years, but with the economy now stabilizing, we are now able to invest in new stores.'' The new location, he added, ''allows us to infill our store count in the region and makes a lot of sense for us. There is not a lot of mall development in the U.S. right now and the New York metro area is a good market to be in.''
Peter Ripka, a partner at the retail brokerage firm Ripco Real Estate, which is not involved in the marketing of the development, said that having two anchor tenants and being in a prime location were both good indicators of success. ''You have to love a site that has access from two major highways,'' he said. ''A good highway network means people can come from a large radius.'' There will also be some 230 buses stopping daily at the mall.
There is little direct competition in the area. The closest fashion mall is the Cross County Shopping Center in Yonkers, which is north and west of the Mall at Bay Plaza. The other option in the Bronx is the Gateway Center in the Bronx Terminal Market, which does not have a fashion focus.
''The Gateway Center in the Bronx Terminal Market is more of a vertical power center, which means it is more like a shopping center and won't have similar fashion retailers,'' Mr. Ripka said.
The Mall at Bay Plaza will include an 1,800-spot parking garage and as many as 80 smaller retail stores. Asking rents will range from $100 a square foot to more than $200 a square foot, said Jerry Welkis, the president of Welco Realty, a retail brokerage firm. With his partner Allen Cooperman, a principal, he is spearheading the leasing at the Mall at Bay Plaza. They have been marketing the mall since January.
Potential tenants who are in discussions to lease space at the mall include Aeropostale, H&M, Express, the Gap and Victoria's Secret.
In addition, the mall is in negotiations to sign a 40,000-square-foot health club, and is creating a food court with about 10 vendors. It is in talks with the Cheesecake Factory, Maggiano's Little Italy, Brio Tuscan Grille and Texas de Brazil to open two or three sit-down restaurants, and to sign up some fast casual restaurants, including possibly Bobby's Burger Palace and Chipotle Mexican Grill. Other nonfashion tenants it has spoken with include the jewelry chain Zales, Build-a-Bear Workshop and Brookstone, Mr. Welkis said.
The structure of the mall, with Macy's on one side and J. C. Penney on the other, is also ideal, Mr. Welkis said. ''The mall is short, so the specialty retailers won't get lost as people walk between the J. C. Penney's and Macy's; they will be clearly visible.''
''We are creating a suburban fashion mall in an urban environment,'' Mr. Welkis said, ''but the key to the success is that we have great anchors.'' He continued, ''Macy's is considered a fashion outlet while J. C. Penney has tremendous reach as a moderately priced department store, so we are offering the best of both worlds.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The $300 million, 780,000-square-foot Mall at Bay Plaza in the Bronx is being developed by Prestige Properties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALTOON PARTNERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); MAYORS (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (86%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (86%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (86%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



489 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Speaking to the Haves, In a Plea to Consider All The Have-Nots

BYLINE: By FELIX SALMON. 
Felix Salmon is the finance blogger at Reuters.

 BODY:
END THIS DEPRESSION NOW!
By Paul Krugman
Illustrated. 259 pages. W. W. Norton & Company. $24.95.
THE GREAT DIVERGENCE
America's Growing Inequality Crisis and What We Can Do About It
By Timothy Noah
Illustrated. 264 pages. Bloomsbury Press. $25.
Rich people have more power than poor people, and they use that power to get what they want -- which is, normally, more wealth and more power. Across America, politicians invariably reflect the views of their richest constituents. And the Federal Reserve, too, appears to have been captured by the rich: It seems much more worried about the specter of possible future inflation (which might be bad for the rich) than it is about the tragedy of present-day unemployment (which is calamitous for today's jobless).
Right now, it turns out, is a great time to be rich -- quite possibly the best time ever. Over the course of what both Paul Krugman and Timothy Noah call the ''Great Divergence'' (Mr. Noah took that title for his book from a phrase used by Mr. Krugman in ''The Conscience of a Liberal''), the top 1 percent doubled its share of national income. The happy one in a hundred had 12 percent of all income in 1984; that had risen to 24 percent in 2007. 
As a result, the very title of Mr. Krugman's new book, ''End This Depression Now!,'' is going to ring a little false to his wealthiest readers. What depression? Sure, a lot of rich people lost a lot of money when the stock market crashed at the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009. But then the government and the Federal Reserve stepped in, did what needed to be done, the markets turned around, and the economy started growing again. We're now in a recovery, not a depression.
Each of these books, in its own way, is an attempt to disabuse the rich of precisely that idea -- to explain that while they're doing perfectly well for themselves, an overwhelming majority of the population, the bottom 80 percent to 90 percent of the country, is struggling hard and has tasted none of the fruits that have been showered on the wealthy.
Take the quarter-century from 1980 to 2005, during which markets soared and America got indisputably richer: over that period, Mr. Noah, a columnist for The New Republic, says that fully 80 percent of the nation's income gains went to just the top 1 percent. Most Americans' incomes stagnated, with the middle class getting nowhere. Mr. Krugman takes a shorter view, and demonstrates that the same group suffered dreadfully in the financial crisis, and that its plight continues today. Both of them try to inject urgency back into the national debate, spelling out how unacceptable the status quo is, and calling on the government to do something about it as a matter of the highest priority.
Their pleas will fall on deaf ears, as long as the rich remain well fed and in charge of the levers of power in Washington. That's a matter of simple political reality. But that just makes it all the more important for these books to be compelling reads in their own right. And sadly, neither author is at his best working at book length.
Mr. Krugman, the Nobel laureate and Princeton professor whose New York Times column and blog have made him arguably the most important and influential Op-Ed columnist in the nation, writes daily with fluency and fervor about the greatest issues facing the world. But give him a book to fill, and he starts becoming a bit repetitive: Reading this one is like listening to a Wagner opera in which the lead character first tells you what he's going to say, and then he says it, and then he tells you what he just said.
What's more, the real heart of ''End This Depression'' is distressingly thin. There are 13 chapters, plus an introduction and a postscript, and just one -- Chapter 12 -- attempts to deliver on the promise of the title and explain what Mr. Krugman would have the government actually do to improve our collective lot. And that chapter is pretty short. There are precious few detailed policy proposals here, and it would be extremely difficult to put a price tag on what Mr. Krugman wants. A lot of it is more attitude than money, in any case: the idea, for instance, that Ben Bernanke needs to demonstrate ''Rooseveltian resolve'' in his quest to get the country moving.
Would Mr. Krugman's vague prescription -- which boils down, at heart, to old-fashioned Keynesian stimulus -- really end this depression? Are we even in a depression? We're certainly suffering the aftermath of a particularly nasty financial crisis, and more government spending would surely help, at the margin.
But without knowing how much money Mr. Krugman proposes to spend, it's hard to judge what he's proposing. And he chooses to sidestep the idea, put forward most famously by the economic historians Carmen Reinhart and Kenneth Rogoff, that a recession of this magnitude was inevitable after a major financial crisis, and that there's very little any government could have done to prevent it.
Instead, we get yet another potted history of how we got into this mess in the first place, and a pretty large dose of politics. Mr. Krugman loves to explain why he thinks that Republicans are worse than wrong: They believe in a ''dogma,'' he writes, that is ''basically absurd.'' This is good for point scoring, but it does nothing to help the reader follow a clear argument.
Mr. Noah's book was born out of a wonderful project at Slate, which I highly recommend. And it opens with a terrific chapter, full of eye-opening data points and some very smart history. I had no idea, for instance, that in 1942 Franklin Roosevelt proposed a 100 percent marginal tax rate on incomes that were the equivalent of about $345,000 today: ''F.D.R. wanted to bookend the minimum wage he'd created a decade earlier with a new maximum wage,'' Mr. Noah writes. ''Congress didn't let him, but the idea won popular support.''
But ''The Great Divergence,'' like Mr. Krugman's volume, is written by someone who works best at shorter length. And they share another problem: There's no real story being told here. Mr. Noah never delivers on the promise of that first chapter, and instead has a tendency to get bogged down in long recitations of history.
In a book about the rise of income inequality since 1979, we don't really need eight pages on the history of immigration in the United States, or four full pages about the 1947 Taft-Hartley Act. Especially when the ultimate point being made is that neither turned out to be very important in terms of rising inequality.
At the beginning of his book, Mr. Noah expresses ''an enormous sense of urgency about the way this country is changing and our need to get it back on the right track''; Mr. Krugman surely feels the same way. But by the time he has reached the end, Mr. Noah, like Mr. Krugman, winds up with a chapter of prescriptions that seem wholly inadequate.
Yes, we should raise taxes on the rich by $30 billion a year, open our borders to skilled immigrants and even repeal Taft-Hartley. But none of those moves, individually or in combination, would make a real dent in the extreme inequality that we're living with today. This is now a country run by the rich, for the rich. And nothing in either of these books gives me reason to believe that there's any hope of changing that.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Paul Krugman (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Timothy Noah (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL NOAH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); WRITERS (67%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: End This Depression Now! (Book); The Great Divergence: America's Growing Inequality Crisis and What We Can Do about It (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



490 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1103 words

HEADLINE: Movies That Dare To Buck A Trend

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Alex Kurtzman has written films about space travel (''Star Trek''), space robots (''Transformers'') and creatures who descend on the Old West from outer space (''Cowboys & Aliens'').
Now he has directed a summer movie called ''People Like Us.'' It is not about outer space, but about family life in contemporary America.
''People want to see themselves represented on screen in real ways, not just fantasy,'' Mr. Kurtzman said in an interview.
His film is one in a small cluster of pictures that will try to defy modern economic forces in the movie industry; they will bring realistic stories about recognizable characters in a familiar world to major studio schedules, at the height of the summer blockbuster season. 
It is a daring step.
Last year Hollywood's top 20 domestic box office performers included just two movies -- ''The Help'' and ''Bridesmaids'' -- with realistic stories about American life, contemporary or otherwise, according to boxofficemojo.com. The rest took place in a fantasy world, like ''Thor,'' or abroad, like ''The Hangover Part II'' and ''Fast Five.''
In 1992, by contrast, 15 of the 20 best-selling American films were rooted in realistic, if sometimes twisted, American experiences. Those included ''Sister Act,''''Lethal Weapon 3,''''A League of Their Own,''''Unforgiven'' and ''Boomerang,'' all of which were released from May to August of that year. By 2010, pressure to generate international sales, which now account for about 70 percent of Hollywood's worldwide ticket revenue, had pushed the simple portrayal of American lives almost completely off the big studio schedules in May, June and July.
''They've ceded the cultural mirror role to TV,'' said Martin Kaplan, a professor of entertainment, media and society at the Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism at the University of Southern California, referring to the studios' diminishing taste for films that reflect the home audience. ''Shows like 'South Park,' 'Family Guy' and 'Modern Family' are where Americans now go to try to figure out who we are.''
Still, this summer's studio films will stick a little closer to home.
On June 29 Disney and DreamWorks will release Mr. Kurtzman's film, with Chris Pine, Elizabeth Banks and Michelle Pfeiffer among its stars. Written with Roberto Orci and Jody Lambert, ''People Like Us'' is set in present-day Los Angeles. Its protagonist is a young man who comes to terms with the secret second family of his dead father, who had been a flamboyant record producer.
Similarly set in the Los Angeles rock scene, but in the 1980s, ''Rock of Ages'' arrives this Friday from Warner Brothers, with Tom Cruise in a lead role as a famous rock star who gets involved with two aspiring young singers pursuing their dreams. It is followed a week later by Steven Soderbergh's ''Magic Mike,'' also from Warner, with Channing Tatum in a Florida story about male strippers.
In competition with ''Rock of Ages,'' Sony Pictures this Friday will open ''That's My Boy,'' a domestic comedy with Adam Sandler. In August that studio releases ''Hope Springs,'' ''Sparkle'' and ''Premium Rush,'' all fantasy-free stories set in the United States.
Warner will respond with ''The Campaign,'' a farce about a North Carolina political contest, on Aug. 10. In an e-mail last week, Mr. Soderbergh described Warner's decision to acquire rights to ''Magic Mike'' and to give it wide release in fantasy season as ''bold moves, in my view.'' As for the studio's thinking on the matter, Mr. Soderbergh referred questions to Warner executives, who declined to comment.
Most likely, the slightly heavier stream of American-focused stories this summer is a blip on the schedule, an accidental configuration that may not predict any long-term swing in studio thinking, which remains locked on the need for revenue from international markets.
To some extent, state tax credits have fed the supply of American films, even when they face uncertain prospects abroad. ''Magic Mike'' and ''Rock of Ages'' both took advantage of generous subsidies in Florida, while ''People Like Us'' was among a handful of films that were partly underwritten by a narrower credit from California.
(And sometimes globalization has worked in reverse. Alexander Rodnyansky, a producer based in Russia, recently used tax credits from Georgia to help tell an American tale, ''Jayne Mansfield's Car,'' set for release by Roadside Attractions next year. Written by Tom Epperson and its director, Billy Bob Thornton, the film is about British visitors, led by John Hurt, who collide with a Southern clan headed by Robert Duvall. ''It is like an American version of a Chekhov play,'' Mr. Rodnyansky remembers Mr. Hurt telling him.)
Typically, though, big studios have been wary of projects without obvious foreign elements or culture-spanning fantasy themes. ''You have to show them it can break out,'' said Mark Ciardi, a producer whose Mayhem Pictures made ''Secretariat'' for Disney. With his producing partner, Gordon Gray, he has been trying to arouse interest at Disney or elsewhere in a number of American stories, though ''Secretariat,'' which was released in the fall of 2010, sold few tickets abroad.
Domestic stories like ''The Social Network'' and ''Moneyball'' have often been consigned to the year-end awards season, when box office expectations are usually lower.
But even there, it can be tough going. For the last four years the best picture Oscar has gone to films -- ''The Artist,''''The King's Speech,''''The Hurt Locker'' and ''Slumdog Millionaire'' -- with stories, settings or actors and filmmakers from abroad.
That Disney and DreamWorks were willing to squeeze ''People Like Us'' between fantasies like ''Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter,'' which 20th Century Fox will open on June 22, and ''The Amazing Spider-Man,'' due from Sony on July 3, owes something to the two companies' experience last year with ''The Help,'' Mr. Kurtzman said.
That film, about personal struggles with racial bias in the South, became a surprise hit, with sales of about $170 million at the domestic box office (and only modest sales abroad), after Disney and DreamWorks released it in August.
Another impetus, said Mr. Kurtzman, who is 38, was a growing hunger among viewers of his own generation for studio-level pictures that are a shade less fantastic, and more like his own favorite films from Mr. Soderbergh, James Brooks or Cameron Crowe. All of them have told stories rooted in dilemmas that American viewers could readily recognize as their own.
''Going to the movies,'' Mr. Kurtzman noted, ''is supposed to be a deeply emotional experience.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'PEOPLE LIKE US': Elizabeth Banks, Michael D'Addario (center) and Chris Pine in this film. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZADE ROSENTHAL/DREAMWORKS PICTURES)
'ROCK OF AGES': Julianne Hough as an aspiring singer in this movie, set in the Los Angeles rock scene. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID JAMES/WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)
 'THAT'S MY BOY': From left, Vanilla Ice, Andy Samberg and Adam Sandler in a scene from this comedy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/COLUMBIA PICTURES)(C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FAMILY (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); TICKET SALES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Magic Mike (Movie); People Like Us (Movie); Rock of Ages (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



491 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Tortilla Maker Pleads Guilty To Violating Payroll Laws

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

 BODY:
The owner of a Brooklyn tortilla factory where a worker died last year after falling into a mixing machine pleaded guilty on Tuesday to failing to pay adequate wages, the state attorney general's office said. 
The owner, Erasmo Ponce, also pleaded guilty on behalf of his company to failing to secure workers' compensation insurance for his employees.
As part of his plea, Mr. Ponce is to be sentenced to 90 days in prison, to be served on weekends, and ordered to pay $412,678.27 in restitution, officials said.
''Mr. Ponce and his company have pled guilty to violating laws which are essential for the well-being of New York's working people,'' Attorney GeneralEric T. Schneiderman said in a statement, ''and now they have been held accountable.''
Appearing in Brooklyn Criminal Court, Mr. Ponce, a Mexican immigrant, admitted that he had failed to pay his employees legally mandated overtime wages for time they worked over 40 hours a week, Mr. Schneiderman's office said.
He also admitted that his company, Tortilleria Chinantla, had failed to secure workers' compensation insurance for employees during two periods - June to October 2009 and March 2010 to January 2011 - and that he had filed state tax returns that failed to list all of his employees, thus avoiding payment of contributions to the state's Unemployment Insurance Fund, the attorney general's office said.
Mr. Ponce pleaded guilty to one count of failure to pay wages, a misdemeanor. In addition, on behalf of his corporation, he pleaded guilty to another count of failure to pay wages and a count of failure to secure workers' compensation insurance, a felony, Mr. Schneiderman's office said.
He is scheduled to be sentenced next January.
Mr. Ponce, a widely respected businessman and community leader in New York's Mexican diaspora, was arrested in March and faced 26 felony counts and 23 misdemeanor counts.
The case dates to Jan. 24, 2011, when Juan Baten, a Guatemalan worker, was crushed to death by a large mixer.
Regulators began scrutinizing Mr. Ponce's operation.
State officials quickly discovered that the company had been operating without workers' compensation insurance for nearly a year, and they shut the factory down. The state later allowed the plant to reopen, but last July, federal officials cited the company for safety violations.
Mr. Baten's death and the ensuing investigations have cast a pall over the life story of Mr. Ponce. He moved to the United States from Mexico in 1989 and began doing manual labor. He eventually started a small tortilla-making vending business in New York that, within a decade, grew into a national enterprise with revenue of several million dollars a year.
His success made him one of the wealthiest and most influential members of the city's growing Mexican population, and he burnished his reputation with donations to various social and political causes in the region and in Mexico.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (94%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); TORTILLA MFG (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); SENTENCING (89%); MISDEMEANORS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); OVERTIME (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); FELONIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ARRESTS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); POPULATION GROWTH (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GUATEMALA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



492 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1512 words

HEADLINE: As Trade Tower Rises, It's Not Quite What Was Planned

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
When President Obama visits 1 World Trade Center on Thursday, he will find a tower that is undeniably impressive and - even a year and a half before its scheduled completion - unquestionably a landmark of 21st-century New York.
But it is not exactly the tower New Yorkers were led to believe they would see when the plans were unveiled in 2006. Since the Durst Organization joined the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in 2010 as the effective codeveloper of the project, it has revised the design in a number of ways.
''I think they've been few and minor,'' Patrick J. Foye, the executive director of the Port Authority, said in a telephone interview Monday. The authority has approved all the revisions.
Taken together, it is true, the design revisions will probably not much alter the presence of 1 World Trade Center on the city's skyline. But they may change its place in the civic consciousness, if the tower is perceived as too isolated or fortified at its base, or as having too little of a symbolic spire at its summit. 
What was supposed to be a cascade of steps from the building's west plaza down to Vesey and West Streets will instead be a terrace, set apart from West Street by a blocklong landscaped planter. Durst has also eliminated a skylight set into the plaza that was supposed to bring daylight to the observation deck lobby below ground.
Rather than being clad in panels of prismatic glass, the 185-foot-high base of the tower will be covered in hundreds of pairs of 13-foot vertical glass fins set against horizontal bands of eight-inch-wide stainless-steel slats. The corners of the base will lose what was supposed to have been a gentle but distinctive outward slope.
The rooftop mast will no longer be enclosed in a sculptural sheath of interlocking fiberglass panels but will instead be an exposed latticework structure. This may affect whether the arbiters of building height include the mast in their calculations, which would bring the 1,368-foot tower to a recognized height of 1,776 feet.
If the result of all these changes is to lower the construction budget - something the Durst Organization has a strong financial incentive to do - that was not their purpose, said Douglas Durst, the chairman.
''We didn't make the changes to save money,'' he said. ''The changes were made in order to construct the building.'' Mr. Durst said some features specified by the architects at Skidmore, Owings & Merrill and the landscape architects at Peter Walker & Partners would have been all but impossible to build and maintain.
Whatever the motivations, savings worth millions of dollars have been identified, though neither the Durst Organization nor the Port Authority would estimate the amount.
Durst originally sought what would have been, in essence, a construction management fee of $35 million for what it envisioned as five years of work. The authority was unwilling to pay that amount. Instead, a deal was negotiated under which Durst would receive a $15 million fee and be entitled to a percentage of any ''base building changes that result in net economic benefit to the project'' - cost savings, in other words - that Durst had initiated and recommended.
In August 2010, the Port Authority board authorized incentives to Durst of 75 percent of any savings it realized up to $12 million, and 50 percent of any savings it realized beyond $12 million. Subsequent negotiations changed the benefit to Durst, with a formula running from 75 percent of savings up to $24 million, stepping down to 50 percent, 25 percent and 15 percent as the savings increased.
After a year in which the design revisions have come out publicly in dribs and drabs, Mr. Durst and his senior project manager, Tony Tarazi, sat down with a reporter last week to discuss the changes comprehensively.
The biggest revision that has received the least public attention is to the large triangular plaza on the west side of 1 World Trade Center. Because of a grade change on the site, the plaza is up to 5 feet 8 inches higher than the surrounding sidewalks. The original plan called for broad stainless-steel steps to address that height difference.
''We wanted to create as much plaza as possible,'' Mr. Durst said. ''We didn't see that the steps added anything, because most people don't come in from the west.'' Durst executives also questioned the wisdom of using stainless steel as a walking surface.
Peter Walker & Partners stepped away from the project and was replaced by Mathews Nielsen, of which the landscape architect Signe Nielsen is a principal. The Walker firm remains involved in the the 9/11 Memorial.
Under the new design, the plaza would occupy a terrace above sidewalk level, reached by a stairacse on Vesey Street. The terrace would be paved in granite, have about a dozen sweetgum trees and a blocklong planter that would double as seating.
''The stainless-steel pavers turned out to be very slippery,'' Mr. Foye said, ''and there would have been times of inclement weather where there was a danger.''
The windowless base - a mechanical enclosure and protective concrete pedestal for the tower - is as high as a 15-story office building. The equipment within needs ventilation, so the facade must be permeable.
David M. Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill specified a cladding in panels of laminated glass with a saw-tooth face made of prisms in a vertical array. Screened gaps between the panels would have allowed the mechanical equipment to breathe.
The chief problem, Mr. Tarazi said, was that the Chinese fabricator chosen for the job, Sanxin Glass, was unable to mill the saw-tooth pattern in sheets of tempered glass without deforming the panels beyond the tolerances needed for proper installation. Mr. Foye called this a ''design failure.'' Christopher O. Ward, the executive director of the authority when the decision was made to abandon prismatic glass, called it ''a good design that couldn't be fabricated.''
In any case, the revised design was made public last month in The New York Post. It consists of an aluminum screen, in front of which are horizontal stainless-steel slats, in front of which are rows of fins, arranged in pairs, that are made of laminated glass with a reflective surface on one side and a translucent, acid-etched matte finish on the other.
In the bottom and top rows, the fins will be ''open,'' flat against the facade. In the intermediate rows, the fins will ''close'' to form shallow V shapes, at angles ranging from 7.5 degrees to 60 degrees. The slats will be visible through the interstices.
Just behind the fins will be LED arrays whose light will be reflected outward by the slats. That could open the possibility of enormous multicolored lighting compositions. But Mr. Foye said the Port Authority would be ''very measured and circumspect'' in the kind of illumination it allowed at the tower, keeping in mind its location directly north of the 9/11 Memorial. ''It will not be lit in a rainbow or a plethora of colors,'' he said.
Perhaps the greatest architectural casualty of the redesigned facade are the inclined - or chamfered - corners of the base, which have already been constructed at the intended 3.8-degree angle, forming enormous, slender isosceles triangles in steel and concrete. These corners will be squared off by the cladding.
Mr. Tarazi said it was the architects' idea to eliminate the chamfering when it became apparent how difficult it would be aesthetically to resolve the clash between the vertical lines created by the fins and the sloping lines at each edge. ''S.O.M. saw it as an opportunity to improve on the design,'' Mr. Tarazi said, ''and I think they did.''
Through a spokeswoman, Skidmore, Owings & Merrill declined to comment. That underscores how remarkable it was last month when Mr. Childs publicly expressed disappointment with the decision by his clients not to build a radome, as such structures are known, to enclose the mast. ''Eliminating this integral part of the building's design and leaving an exposed antenna and equipment is unfortunate,'' he said in a statement.
Though radomes are common on tall buildings and towers, Mr. Foye said Mr. Childs's design ''would have been very difficult to build and impossible to maintain.''
Elimination of the radome may make it harder to persuade the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat, a worldwide arbiter of such things, to include the mast in its calculations. If the council rules in 2014 that 1 World Trade Center is 1,368 feet tall, Willis Tower in Chicago would not be dislodged as the tallest building in the United States.
The concept of the new trade center towers culminating in a point 1,776 feet in the sky was introduced nine years ago by Daniel Liebeskind, the original master planner of the site. Asked this week about the design change, he said through a spokeswoman that ''the tape measure still extends 1,776 feet from the ground to the tip of the spire, so the tower remains a spectacular symbol of American resilience and democracy.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The original design of the 15-story base of 1 World Trade Center, left, had corners with a gentle but distinctive outward slope. That feature, however, has been squared off, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SKIDMORE, OWINGS & MERRILL/SILVERSTEIN PROPERTIES
 DURST ORGANIZATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); FIBERGLASS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); BUDGETS (64%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (72%); SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (72%); NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



493 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Motherhood Still a Cause Of Pay Inequality

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER. 
E-mail: eporter@nytimes.com; Twitter: @portereduardo

 BODY:
Women have made huge strides in the job market since President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act in 1963. Yet almost half a century after it became illegal to pay women less than men for the same job, the weekly wage of a typical woman who works full time is almost 18 percent less than that of the typical working man.
That wage gap is drawing renewed attention as President Obama courts women's votes ahead of the November election. Last week Republicans in the Senate blocked the Paycheck Fairness Act, a bill supported by the administration that would have limited the reasons employers can use to justify paying a man more than a woman for doing a similar job.
''It is incredibly disappointing that in this make-or-break moment for the middle class, Senate Republicans put partisan politics ahead of American women and their families,'' Mr. Obama said in a statement. ''My administration will continue to fight for a woman's right for equal pay for equal work.'' 
The attention is welcome. The pay deficit for women has narrowed remarkably since the 1960s. But progress closing the gap has slowed over the last 20 years or so. And the flow of women into the work force has stalled after five decades of breakneck growth. Some economists worry that women's progress in the job market might be hitting a wall.
But the bill pushed by the administration failed to address any of the central reasons that women still earn less than men.
Most economists believe the gap between women's and men's wages does not stem primarily from employers paying women less than men for the same job. It occurs mostly because men and women take different jobs and follow different career paths. Part of this difference may be a result of discrimination in hiring and promoting. Much, though, is a result of the constraints of motherhood.
There are policies that could help diminish women's pay deficit by increasing flexibility in the workplace and easing women's family burden. Reducing the nation's vast income inequality would also go a long way. Many European countries have smaller gender pay gaps because the difference between the earnings of low-wage and high-wage workers, men or women, is much smaller than in the United States. But mandating equal pay for equal work is unlikely to make much of a difference.
Teasing out pay discrimination is tough because many attributes and behaviors may account for differences in pay. Women choose different educational paths than men. Female engineers earn considerably more than female educators straight out of college. Nonetheless, women account for only 18 percent of engineering majors versus 79 percent of education majors, according to a study by the American Association of University Women.
Female doctors are more likely to be pediatricians than higher-paid cardiologists. They are more likely to work part time. And even those working full time put in 7 percent fewer hours a week than men. They are also much more likely to take extended leaves, most often to give birth and start a family.
This is not to say that employers do not discriminate by sex. Some employers still steer women into lower-paid positions with lesser prospects. In 1970 women accounted for only 5 percent of the musicians in the nation's top five symphony orchestras. By the mid-1990s, their share had increased to 25 percent. Up to half the gain came because orchestras introduced blind auditions, in which a screen hid the identity of candidates and forced judges to choose exclusively on the basis of their performance.
But outright sex discrimination has declined sharply, most economists agree. Today, women's career choices -- constrained by the burdens of motherhood and family -- account for most of the pay gap between women and men.
Francine D. Blau and Lawrence M. Kahn of Cornell University tried to get at the pay gap between similar men and women by stripping out many of the differences that might affect wages, such as relative levels of education, the type of occupations and the industries they worked in, and the greater likelihood that women would interrupt their careers to have children. These variables explained about 60 percent of the total difference in wages, leaving an unexplained 9 percent pay gap between women and men.
Still, Ms. Blau acknowledges that the 9 percent wedge may not be due entirely to discrimination. There could be differences in motivation, commitment, interpersonal skills or some other variable not captured in the data that would affect a worker's value to an employer. The study by the American Association of University Women found that the pay gap straight out of college -- before the demands of family become an issue -- was only 5 percent after accounting for other differences between the sexes.
It's telling to look at the pay gap among the nation's highest earners -- where women's deficit is largest. At the 10th percentile of earners, women make about 90 cents for every dollar earned by men. By contrast, at the 90th percentile, near the top of the distribution, women only make about 77 cents for every $1 men earn.
The economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz of Harvard University, and Marianne Bertrand of the University of Chicago, tracked the career paths of nearly 3,000 M.B.A.'s who graduated from the University of Chicago over 15 years, as they began their careers in business and finance. The women started off making 88 percent as much as men, on average. But 10 to 15 years later, they were making only 55 cents for every dollar of men's pay.
After accounting for a number of differences, from grades to course choices, the economists concluded that women's pay deficit was almost entirely because they interrupted their careers more often and tended to work fewer hours. The rest was mostly explained by career choices: for instance, more women worked at nonprofits, which pay less.
That women are being paid less than men because they shoulder more of the family burden doesn't mean the pay gap is unimportant. But closing it further requires changes that allow workers to mesh their jobs better with their family duties. This might mean flexible schedules and more parental leave to accommodate working mothers. It could include nudging men to participate more in bringing up children, using tools like ''use it or lose it'' paid parental leave.
Some professions are becoming more welcoming to women. In fields including veterinary medicine or pharmacy, changes like business consolidation and technological progress have allowed for flexible and predictable schedules without a big drop in pay. For instance, among pharmacists there is no unexplained gender pay gap, Ms. Goldin said. Women earn less only if they work fewer hours. And women have flocked to those jobs.
Public policy can help remove some of the obstacles for working women. A recent study found that California's paid family leave program, the first in the nation, more than doubled the use of maternity leave -- to seven weeks -- and may have increased mothers' hours at work and incomes by up to 9 percent.
Some economists, like Nancy Folbre at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, say they believe that equal pay laws are needed anyway because they change the norms of society. Tightening the civil rights-era law to force employers to offer equal pay for equal work by equally qualified workers would encourage them to think twice about their pay practices and temper the tendency to subconsciously discriminate against women, she says.
But such norms can be costly. Demanding that employers explain exactly why a particular man earned more than a particular woman would create a jolt in the labor market -- where employers like to pay both women and men as little as possible, according to the laws of supply and demand. What's more, it's probably impossible to do, considering the myriad differences between two workers. ''What are we going to check?'' asks Ms. Goldin. ''It's not checkable.'' The result, she says, could backfire, leading to lower employment for women over all.
That wouldn't help women at all.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United States senators spoke about the Paycheck Fairness Act, which was blocked last week by Senate Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (B8) CHART: Pay Gap Still Large: Although improvements have been made, women still earn about 18 percent less than men. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EQUAL PAY (95%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GENDER EQUALITY (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (79%); WOMEN WORKERS (79%); POLITICS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); CARDIOLOGY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



494 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: 2 Campaigns Chasing Funds At Frantic Pace

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and HELENE COOPER; Ashley Parker reported from Washington, and Helene Cooper from Baltimore. Michael Barbaro contributed reporting from Orlando. Fla.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama wooed campaign donors in speed-dating fashion on Tuesday, rushing through six fund-raisers in six hours in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Thursday will find him in Manhattan, where he will join Anna Wintour at the home of Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick for a $40,000-a-plate dinner, followed by another high-dollar gathering at the Plaza Hotel.
Mitt Romney has been jetting around the country making frequent stops in states that will not be battlegrounds this fall -- California, Texas, Utah and New York among them -- in a search for donations. In coming weeks, he has events scheduled in wealthy enclaves from Aspen, Colo., and Jackson Hole, Wyo., to the Hamptons, and he is planning a late-summer fund-raising blitz heading into the conventions.
With the primary season over, the presidential campaign has entered a new phase, one dictated by the competitive realities of the deregulated campaign finance system. Having decided not to take public financing for the general election, both Mr. Obama and Mr. Romney need to devote much of their time to banking the money necessary to fuel their campaigns through Election Day. 
This election cycle marks the completion of a gradual shift away from the days when candidates would be able to wrap up fund-raising on their own behalf ahead of their conventions in the middle of the summer and rely on public financing -- which limits candidates to a preset expenditure level -- for the general election.
Mr. Obama rejected public financing in his 2008 race to free himself to spend as much as he could raise, and this year he will be the first sitting president to do so. Mr. Romney and his allies appear to be on track to raise even more money than Mr. Obama and his backers. In May, the Romney campaign collected more than $76.8 million, nearly $17 million more than the president.
So there was Mr. Obama on Tuesday afternoon, hopscotching through three fund-raisers in the Baltimore area before running up to Philadelphia for three more in the evening. Mr. Romney was holding a fund-raiser in Tennessee on Tuesday night, after raising money this week in Georgia and Florida.
Both candidates are spending more time at this point chasing dollars than votes and are scheduling their travel accordingly, meaning they often find themselves in states they are almost sure to win or sure to lose rather than in those where they most need to persuade the undecided.
''Now that the candidates have opted out of public funding, the spending limits that came with public money are no more, so they are free to fund-raise as much as they feel they need to,'' said Brendan J. Doherty, a political science professor at the Naval Academy whose book ''The Rise of the President's Permanent Campaign,'' which will be released next month, chronicles the increase in fund-raising.
''The summer was still a fund-raising race for Bill Clinton in 1996 even though he participated in public funding, but his fund-raising race was just for the Democratic National Committee,'' Professor Doherty said. ''Now there are no limits on what the campaign itself can raise and spend, and without those limits, which had held down the amount of time a president could spend fund-raising, it's off to the races.''
Mr. Obama in particular is under pressure to accelerate his fund-raising to keep pace with Mr. Romney's team and the conservative ''super PACs'' that are pouring hundreds of millions of dollars into the campaign. But Republicans, even as they celebrate their own fund-raising advantage, are trying to make Mr. Obama's exertions a political issue, suggesting that he is not paying enough attention to his job, is spending excessive time with wealthy Hollywood stars and New York glitterati and has lost touch with the economic concerns of ordinary people.
''The president needs to go out and talk to people, not just do fund-raisers, go out and talk to people in the country and find out what is happening,'' Mr. Romney said in Florida on Tuesday.
Professor Doherty said Mr. Obama had so far held 160 fund-raisers for his re-election. By contrast, President George W. Bush had attended 79 fund-raisers by this point in his 2004 re-election race, according to Mark Knoller of CBS News, who has tracked years of presidential travel. While Mr. Bush opted out of public financing for the primary season in 2004, he accepted public financing for the general election, reducing his need to raise money.
There are no comprehensive figures for Mr. Romney's attendance at fund-raisers, some of which have not been included on his public schedule.
Some Democrats acknowledged that the Obama campaign has been surprised at lagging the Republican fund-raising totals. But they said Mr. Obama could employ the bully pulpit to offset some of the financial disadvantage. And his campaign rejected Mr. Romney's criticism that fund-raisers have left Mr. Obama out of touch.
''While we've used opportunities to get supporters involved in the campaign who may not otherwise have been involved in the political process, Mitt Romney personally courted Kid Rock and has campaigned time and again with Birther-in-Chief Donald Trump,'' said Ben LaBolt, a spokesman for the Obama campaign.
One way the Democrats are trying to compete with the Republican fund-raising apparatus is by partnering with Democratic-leaning independent groups. Priorities USA, a pro-Obama super PAC, and the Service Employees International Union on Monday announced plans for a $4 million, Spanish-language advertising campaign in the swing states of Colorado, Florida and Nevada. The group has also partnered with the League of Conservation Voters and the United Auto Workers.
Though Democratic super PACs have struggled to compete with their Republican counterparts, Bill Burton, a co-founder of Priorities USA, said that teaming up with similarly minded groups allows them to spend their money more efficiently and promote a coordinated message.
''That's the biggest strategy for us to leverage every dollar into three or four dollars,'' Mr. Burton said. ''You leverage for more resources, but you also help to keep the Democratically aligned independent groups on message.''
Last week, Mr. Romney two-stepped his way across Texas -- a reliably red state he expects to win in November -- along with stops in Portland, Ore., Salt Lake City and St. Louis. And the week before, he spent much of his free time fund-raising in California, which last voted for a Republican president in 1988. His California swing was a four-day affair that included only one public event.
Given the news coverage that follows him wherever he goes, Mr. Obama can continue to inject his message into the daily news cycle even as he raises money. Mr. Romney lacks that advantage and often conducts fund-raisers that allow little or no news coverage, forcing his campaign to rely more on surrogates and his super PAC to deliver attacks on Mr. Obama and carry a pro-Romney message.
Two weeks ago, when the latest jobs report showed disappointing growth, bolstering Mr. Romney's economic argument against Mr. Obama, Mr. Romney's campaign was caught in the awkward position of having its only event that day being a fund-raiser from which television cameras were barred. His campaign scrambled to add an interview on CNBC, for Mr. Romney to address the news.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama arrived in the Baltimore area on Tuesday for three fund-raisers before heading to Philadelphia for three more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); DEREGULATION (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (73%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (73%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



495 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Christians On Right Urge Reform On Migrants

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
Some of the nation's most influential evangelical groups urged a solution to illegal immigration on Tuesday that defies the harsh rhetoric of the Republican primary race, which continues to undermine Mitt Romney's appeal to Hispanic voters.
The call by the groups represents a recognition that in one bedrock element of the conservative movement -- evangelical Christians -- the demography of their followers is changing, becoming more Hispanic, and that Republican leaders risk being out of step with their hawkish talk of border fences and immigration crackdowns like those in Arizona. 
Tom Minnery, the senior vice president of policy for one evangelical group, Focus on the Family, said many of the 11 million to 12 million illegal immigrants should be free to ''come out of the shadows'' and ''begin the process of restitution'' leading to attaining legal residency.
Mr. Minnery spoke at a Capitol Hill news conference called to announce that more than 150 Christian evangelical leaders, including from the Southern Baptist Convention and the National Association of Evangelicals, were endorsing an overhaul of immigration policy.
The evangelical leaders expressed opposition to such notions as ''self-deportation,'' which Mr. Romney favored in a Republican debate and which urges strict enforcement of laws to encourage illegal immigrant workers to leave the country.
The situation is considered all the more critical given that some important swing states in the coming election -- including Colorado, Florida and Nevada -- have large Hispanic populations that leading Republicans say they must win over to prevail in the states.
''This is the tipping point to finally convince Republican operatives that they must redeem the narrative on immigration reform in order to be a viable party in America's political landscape in the 21st century,'' said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference.
Mr. Rodriguez said he met last week with aides to Mr. Romney, the presumptive Republican nominee, to urge him to moderate his positions.
He noted that Hispanics, who account for about 7.5 million of the 82 million evangelicals in the country, are the fastest-growing segment. Hispanic evangelicals are more likely than other Hispanics to identify as conservative and Republican.
But so far Mr. Romney has shown no inclination to shift his positions from the primary season, when he attacked his rivals Newt Gingrich and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas for their more moderate immigration stances.
Although he has campaigned with Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, a Cuban-American popular with the Tea Party, Mr. Romney has not endorsed Mr. Rubio's proposal to grant a path to legal residency for some children of illegal immigrants.
Mr. Romney plans to address a national meeting of elected Hispanic officials on June 21 in Orlando, Fla., and is expected to speak about immigration.
For now, Mr. Romney's strategists argue that he need not change his positions because Latino voters will cast ballots in November based on the economy, not immigration.
''Governor Romney believes that legal immigration is a source of strength for America and that to protect legal immigration we must address illegal immigration in a civil but resolute manner,'' said Alberto Martinez, an adviser to Mr. Romney in Florida.
''As president, Governor Romney would work with any groups on a reform that strengthens legal immigration, secures our borders, respects those who are waiting patiently to enter legally and ensures that we do not encourage further illegal immigration.''
A pro-reform movement has been percolating among evangelical groups for the past two to three years, with organizations and churches that align with Republicans on issues like abortion and gay marriage supporting President Obama on immigration reform.
The National Association of Evangelicals, which represents more than 40 denominations, passed a resolution calling for a comprehensive immigration overhaul in 2009. The Southern Baptist Convention did so last year.
It called for ''just, fair immigration reform,'' said Richard Land, president of the Southern Baptists' ethics commission, who also attended Tuesday's news conference.
''It passed with at least an 80 percent vote,'' he said, ''and four of five Southern Baptists is about as good as you're going to get on any given day on anything.''
But Focus on the Family, the radio ministry based in Colorado, was a newcomer to the cause of an immigration overhaul.
While some advocates favor a path to citizenship for many illegal immigrants, Mr. Minnery of Focus on the Family advocated a path to legal status, like a work visa, only after a fine is paid.
''These are the victims of economic misery, so there's compassion necessary,'' Mr. Minnery said. ''But making restitution is a first step.''
''I think the people are in a different spot than the politicians are on this issue,'' he added. ''I think people are tired of the rhetoric and looking for some improvement in the immigration system.''
If illegal immigrants are going to be asked to get in line for legal status, first ''you have to get the lines moving,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Fleming, senior pastor of the Champion Forest Baptist Church in Houston, delivered remarks with other evangelical leaders on Tuesday about finding a solution to illegal immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); RELIGION (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); BORDER CONTROL (73%); DEPORTATION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF EVANGELICALS (55%); SOUTHERN BAPTIST CONVENTION (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); RICK PERRY (58%); MARCO RUBIO (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



496 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: The Beleaguered Middle Class: The crisis has erased nearly two decades of wealth

 BODY:
Americans know, all too well, the pain unleashed by the Great Recession of 2007-9. Still the numbers on the loss of personal wealth during those years are staggering and say a lot about why the economic recovery has been so sluggish -- and why the government will need to do a lot more to turn things around. 
According to a new survey from the Federal Reserve, the median American family's net worth dropped by nearly 40 percent from 2007 to 2010 -- from $126,400 to $77,300 -- wiping out 18 years' worth of accumulated wealth. The crash in house prices accounted for most of that loss. Median family income, which was already edging down in the years before the recession, continued to decline, dropping from $49,600 in 2007 to $45,800 in 2010, about where it was in the mid-1990s.
The middle class was hit the hardest because high-income Americans were cushioned by the greater diversity of their assets. Lower-income Americans were somewhat shielded by the safety net and by several provisions of the Obama stimulus of 2009, which helped to prevent a huge upsurge in poverty.
While the Great Recession officially ended in 2009, the recovery, so far, has been an effort to climb out of the very deep hole it blasted in the economy. A continued struggle, or worse, backsliding, is almost inevitable, unless Congress and the Federal Reserve provide more aid. In fact, the deep recession would have been much deeper and the weak recovery much weaker but for past government support, including the Obama stimulus and the payroll tax cuts and extended jobless benefits passed in 2010 and 2011. Congressional Republicans opposed all of them.
What's needed now is even more support, including federal spending on education and public-works projects to create jobs, targeted tax credits for hiring, programs to deliver mortgage relief that supports house prices by keeping Americans in their homes, as well as a renewed commitment to financial regulation to ensure that the system doesn't melt down again.
The Republicans -- for reasons of ideology and self-serving election-year politics -- are determined to block all of these necessary programs.
America's families have already lost decades' worth of savings and investments. Many will never get back to where they were. They deserve a lot better, including a robust debate on these issues in the presidential campaign.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (63%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); EDUCATION FUNDING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



497 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: The Beleaguered Middle Class: As austerity bites, pink slips roll in for teachers and cops

 BODY:
The school district in Reading, Pa. -- the nation's poorest city -- laid off 110 teachers last week, along with hundreds of other employees. As elementary students watched in shock, many of their favorite teachers were pulled out of an assembly one by one and given the bad news by district officials, The Reading Eagle reported. 
The layoffs will mean larger classes and an end to public prekindergarten in the city. Many special-education students will lose their mentors. A city where only 8 percent of the residents have a bachelor's degree (compared with the national average of 28 percent) will fall further behind, largely because Pennsylvania's Republican governor, Tom Corbett, chose not to find state money to replace $900 million in federal aid that ran out after the stimulus expired. Instead, he further drained his public coffers by cutting business taxes by $250 million this year.
Across the country, many states like Pennsylvania that happily accepted stimulus money to pay for existing employees are laying off those workers now that Congress has turned off the spigot. Over the last three years, at least 700,000 state and local government employees have lost their jobs, including teachers, sanitation workers and public safety personnel, contributing a full percentage point to the unemployment rate.
That seems to be just fine with Mitt Romney, who, like many Republicans, does not consider a job to be economically significant unless it is in the private sector. Last week, he attacked President Obama for proposing to help states hire more teachers and other workers, saying the president doesn't understand that Americans don't want to hire ''more firemen, more policemen, more teachers.'' Only right-wing ideologues make that distinction; most Americans know driving a bus or picking up trash is just as important economically as working in a big-box store.
Mr. Romney tried to retreat from those comments on Monday, saying that local-government hiring was not a federal issue, but obviously it is. The federal government provided about 10 percent of K-12 education budgets before the stimulus, and that share increased in the last three years. The stimulus money helped save 400,000 education jobs. Since the stimulus began in 2009, Washington has provided more than a third of state budgets, supporting as many as half-a-million other jobs, but that wasn't enough to prevent layoffs, which have only increased since the money began running out.
There have been at least 100,000 education employees laid off nationwide in the last three years; the White House puts the figure at 250,000. California has lost 32,000 teacher jobs -- 11 percent of the work force. Pennsylvania laid off nearly 9,000 teachers and other school workers last year, largely because of Governor Corbett's cuts.
In some cases, states have been forced to cut public employees because of unduly high pension benefits, and we have supported state efforts to reduce those pensions. But putting educators and others back to work ultimately depends on Congress, where Republicans are blocking vital legislation to bolster a faltering economy. For desperate cities like Reading, time is running out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); BUDGETS (88%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (57%); RETAILERS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); TOM CORBETT (54%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: READING, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



498 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Invitation to a Dialogue: A School Plan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Poor children living in poor communities do not have access to the same educational opportunities as their wealthier peers, and no amount of testing or so-called accountability will change this truth. Yet the solution that Mitt Romney promotes, allowing poor students to attend any public or private school of their choice, will likely do little to rectify the problem. Indeed, as we have learned in New York City, school choice tends to reify economic and racial isolation and worsen educational inequities. 
If we really want to achieve educational equity, we should focus our efforts on sending poor, middle-class and wealthy children to the same schools. A recent Times article documenting the impressive fund-raising results of public school PTAs in some of New York's toniest neighborhoods makes this point clearly: Parents with means are better positioned -- financially, politically and socially -- to ensure that the schools their children attend have the necessary resources, from arts enrichment to a pleasant physical environment.
The silver lining in Mr. Romney's education plan is his willingness to breach district lines and allow poor urban children to attend school in surrounding suburbs. Admittedly, this is a tricky proposition.
In most of the country, school district boundaries are closely linked to property values. Those who can afford to live in a more expensive neighborhood know that the exclusivity of their local schools helps maintain their investment. While wealthier parents may be open in theory to increased racial and class diversity in their children's schools, it is unlikely that they or their neighbors will accept the drop in property values that would occur if where one lived were disentangled from where one attends school.
Yet it is very difficult to imagine ever achieving any kind of educational equity in this country without infringing on district boundaries.
JUDITH KAFKA New York, June 12, 2012
The writer is an associate professor in the School of Public Affairs at Baruch College, CUNY.
Editors' Note: We invite readers to respond to this letter for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and Ms. Kafka's rejoinder in the Sunday Review. E-mail: letters@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANGIE WANG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL CHOICE (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); WRITERS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



499 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Romney Uses Obama's Words Against Him, Calling Him 'Out of Touch'

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
ORLANDO, Fla. - Mitt Romney understands the power of the verbal gaffe, real or perceived. During the Republican primaries, he offered up an all-you-can-eat buffet of them: his wife's ''Cadillacs,'' his friends' Nascar teams, how he liked being able to fire people.
Every time, the Obama campaign and its Democratic allies were eager to pounce. 
Now, having absorbed the painful lessons of the hyper-magnified (and context-removed) political blunder, Mr. Romney is turning the tables on President Obama.
For the fifth day in a row, the Romney campaign assailed Mr. Obama on Tuesday over remarks that it said revealed his disconnect from economic reality, a theme that began on Friday after the president declared that the ''private sector is doing fine'' and shows no signs of letting up.
In a speech here in Orlando, Mr. Romney seized on a statement that the president made on Monday about the Affordable Care Act.
In an interview, a television reporter had asked the president about a small business in Iowa, whose owner claimed that the president's health care legislation had contributed to its closing in the state. Mr. Obama said that such an assertion of cause and effect was ''kind of hard to explain.''
''Because the only folks that have been impacted in terms of the health care bill are insurance companies who are required to make sure that they're providing preventive care, or they're not dropping your coverage when you get sick,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And so, this particular company probably wouldn't have been impacted by that.''
A gaffe? Mr. Romney treated it that way, and in his speech at a factory that makes air filters, he called the statement ''something else that shows just how much out of touch'' the president is.
''He said he didn't understand that Obamacare was hurting small business,'' Mr. Romney said. ''You have to scratch your head about that.''
Mr. Romney cited an online survey of almost 1,500 small-business owners, performed last July for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which found that three-quarters of them said they would be less likely to hire because of the burdens of the Affordable Care Act.
Afterword, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, Eric Fehrnstrom, said that Mr. Obama's comments about health care showed that ''this is a president who is detached from the effect his policies are having on the economy.''
The charge of being out of touch is as old as politics itself. But it has become clear that the strategy will be deployed with growing regularity by the Romney campaign, allowing it to cast Mr. Obama as an entrenched Washington insider and sidestep potentially nettlesome issues like Mr. Romney's own experience with health care in Massachusetts. Not once during his speech on Tuesday did Mr. Romney discuss his government-sponsored overhaul of that state's health care system.
Instead, Mr. Romney reiterated his plan to replace the Affordable Care Act with what he likened to a ''consumer market.'' That plan would allow those who buy insurance to receive the same tax advantages as businesses that purchase insurance for employees, ensure coverage for those with pre-existing conditions and hand control of health care to states, rather than the federal government.
With the Supreme Court likely to rule soon on the constitutionality of the health care law, Mr. Romney emphasized that his plan would be put into place regardless of the court's decision.
The Romney campaign has a simple message these days, which it is repeating over and over: what it portrays as President Obama's ''mistakes'' are not mistakes at all. Instead, they are windows into the mind of a man detached from the problems of ordinary Americans and small businesses.
It is a striking line of attack that seeks to repurpose and reverse the thrust of Mr. Obama's central critique of Mr. Romney: that he is a rapacious corporate raider unfamiliar with the problems of regular Americans.
That message was at the core of the television commercials that the Obama campaign has run mocking Mr. Romney's tenure at Bain Capital, which feature laid-off workers. And at a fund-raiser in Owings Mills, Md., on Tuesday, Mr. Obama, who plans to give an address on the economy on Thursday, chided his opponent for his barrage of recent attacks.
''Because folks are still hurting right now, the other side feels that it's enough for them to just sit back and say things aren't as good as they should be, and it's Obama's fault,'' the president said. ''I mean, you can pretty much put their campaign on a tweet and have some characters to spare.''
The president's campaign staff said it welcomed a debate over which candidate is more out of touch, especially given Mr. Romney's rhetorical record during the primary. But that is not deterring Mr. Romney. On Tuesday morning, he appeared on ''Fox and Friends,'' where he said the president was ''really out of touch with what is happening across America.''
''The president needs to go out and talk to people, not just do fund-raisers, go out and talk to people in the country and find out what is happening,'' Mr. Romney said.
That criticism appears to be seeping in. At the event here, Frank Attkisson, a small-business consultant and local commissioner, nodded in agreement with Mr. Romney during the speech, and afterword said the president's statements about the private sector and the health care law reveal ''his true colors.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Republican Mitt Romney said the president was disconnected from real Americans during a campaign stop Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN BLANCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (87%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); INSURANCE (68%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (66%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (92%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



500 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Two Decades of Prosperity Erased

BYLINE: BEN MURRAY


HIGHLIGHT: Why has the wealth of the median American family decreased significantly since 2007? 

 BODY:
WHEN was the net worth of the hypothetical median American family $126,400?
HOW much less was the net worth of the median American family in 2010 than in 2007?
HOW have the reasons that go into families saving money changed since 2007?
WHO released the report on which this article was based, a report issued every three years that is one of the broadest and deepest sources of information about the financial health of American families?
WHAT remained surprisingly resilient since 2007, despite the substantial losses?
WHAT type of loans made up for a larger share of the average family's obligations than automobile loans for the first time in history in 2010?
WHY did the wealth of the hypothetical median American family decrease significantly from 2007 to 2010?
WHY have families been able to reduce debt payments since 2007? 
WHERE in this article can you find a sentence that rings true about a family you know?
Related: Our lessons "On the Road to Recovery? Analyzing Economic Indicators" and "When College May Not Be Worth the Cost: Examining Student Loan Debt."

        
Your Money's Worth: Examining Facts and Attitudes About Income Inequality
        
Crunching the Numbers: Exploring the Math of the Debt Crisis
        
Guest Post | Teenager Writes About 'Crushing Weight of College Debt'
        
When College May Not Be Worth the Cost: Examining Student Loan Debt
        
Elections Reveal a Shifting Europe

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); FAMILY (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (52%) debt; economic crisis; family; Federal Reserve; income; net worth; wealth; 6 Q's About the News

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



501 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Protesters for Nuns Ask U.S. Bishops to Help Them Out

BYLINE: JENNIFER PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: As the U.S. Catholic bishops gather for their annual spring meeting, protesters want them to intervene on behalf of the nation's nuns, who have been sharply criticized by the Vatican for "serious doctrinal problems." 

 BODY:
Protesting the Vatican's criticism of the United States' largest organization of Roman Catholic nuns, a group of people gathered outside the annual spring meeting of U.S. bishops in Atlanta on Wednesday and delivered a petition asking the bishops to intervene on the nuns' behalf.
The Nun Justice Project, made up of several Catholic groups, began coordinating nationwide vigils for nuns after the Vatican reprimanded the Leadership Conference of Women Religious in April for "serious doctrinal problems" that included promoting "radical feminist themes." 
"Our goal with the petition was to ask the bishops to work with the Vatican to rescind its judgment," said Erin Saiz Hanna, a spokeswoman for the Nun Justice Project and executive director of the Women's Ordination Conference, who said signatures were gathered for each of the 57,000 nuns in the United States.
 "With the nationwide vigils and this petition, Catholics have made it clear that they stand in solidarity with the sisters and their good work among the poor and marginalized," Ms. Hanna said.
A photo posted online Wednesday showed the petition being accepted outside the hotel by a spokeswoman for the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops.
Mary Ann Walsh accepts the #nunjustice petition outside @USCCB meeting http://t.co/XebDbB67
- Kate Conmy (@dearmisskate)13 Jun 12
The nuns' conflict with the Vatican was not among the items listed on the public agenda for the meeting of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops. The discussion Wednesday was dominated by the church's effort to prevent clergy sexual abuse, threats to domestic and international religious freedom, the economy and plans to celebrate the Year of Fair, starting in October. Parts of the three-day meeting can be seen on video. 
On Tuesday, Sister Pat Farrell and Sister Janet Mock, two of the leaders of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious, met with Vatican doctrinal officials in Rome and the Seattle archbishop, J. Peter Sartain, who has been assigned to manage the conflict with the nuns in the United States, to discuss the "doctrinal assessment." 
The report criticized nuns for supporting the Obama administration's overhaul of the health care system and for not speaking out enough on same-sex marriage and abortion. They said the nuns should not "disagree with or challenge the bishops, who are the church's authentic teachers of faith and morals." Those positions include homosexuality and female priests.
The meeting was described in an official Vatican statement as being held in an atmosphere of "openness and cordiality." 
Speaking to BBC reporters after the meeting, Sister Farrell said: "We're grateful for the opportunity for open dialogue, and now we will, the next step will be, again, we go to our members to decide how to proceed from here." 
The National Catholic Reporter published its account of the meeting, saying that the "Vatican official responsible for the recent crackdown said he still believes the relationship can work, but also warned of a possible 'dialogue of the deaf,' reflected in what he sees as a lack of movement on the Vatican's concerns."
"Cardinal William Levada, prefect of the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, floated the possibility that should the LCWR not accept the reforms outlined in an April 18 assessment, the result could be decertifying it in favor of a new organization for women's religious leaders in America more faithful to church teaching."
The group, representing about 80 percent of the nation's nuns, holds its annual meeting in August, and some members have said it might be time for the nuns to create a separate group apart from the Vatican, which set up this organization in the 1950s. 
Starting on Monday, a group of nuns will begin a nationwide bus tour, as my colleague Laurie Goodstein reports, to highlight the social justice work that nuns provide and draw attention to the impact on the poor of budget cuts under the plan put forth by Representative Paul Ryan, a Republican. 
The group, Network, was cited in the Vatican report for putting too much of an emphasis on social justice issues. Now it is using its Facebook page, a Twitter account, a Web site called Nuns on the Bus and an interactive map showing its planned stops in nine states to highlight the social services and social justice work that nuns perform. 
Sister Simone Campbell, executive director for Network, also made a television appearance on "The Colbert Report." 
Are you ready to roll? http://t.co/M4UgMymf #NunsOnTheBus http://t.co/KXeiwGx7
- NETWORK Lobby (@NETWORKLobby)13 Jun 12
It turns out their tour will run during the same time the Catholic bishops are organizing a "Fortnight for Freedom," two weeks of rallies and prayer services on religious freedom.
Ms. Hanna from the Nun Justice Project is among the people and readers discussing the Vatican's approach in The Times's Room for Debate forum on the issue. Join the discussion at Room for Debate, or please leave your comment here.

        
Obama Visit to Notre Dame Provokes Debate
        
Wait, What Did He Just Call the Pope?
        
The Vatican Tries a Little Web II.0
        
Seven More Sins, Thanks to Vatican
        
Papal Indulgences, Two Ways: Easy and Hard

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (98%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (97%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PETITIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (89%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SEX OFFENSES (64%); HEALTH CARE (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); MARRIAGE (50%) catholics; Nuns; u.s. conference of catholic bishops; Vatican; Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Priests; Leadership Conference of Women Religious; Roman Catholic Church; United States; Vatican City; News; u.s.

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (83%) Leadership Conference of Women Religious; Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, GA, USA (78%); ROME, ITALY (58%) GEORGIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); HOLY SEE (96%); ITALY (58%) United States; Vatican City

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



502 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: The Boom in Online Freelance Workers

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: Global networks make it possible to obtain work anywhere, enabling companies to hire many specialists for specific tasks at fixed amounts. Chances are this is only getting started. A survey by Elance of its customers found that on average they think more than half of their work force will be freelancers in five years. 

 BODY:
 Global networks make it possible to obtain work anywhere, enabling companies to hire many specialists for specific tasks at fixed amounts. Chances are this is only getting started, and there are profound implications for things as diverse as corporate structure, employment, job skills and even taxation.
On Wednesday, Elance, a company that brokers often sophisticated short-term work online, released a survey of its customers' hiring plans. The company asked what percentage of their work force would, in five years, consist of online temps. On average, the customers projected that more than half of their work force, 54 percent of all workers, would be these outsiders from around the globe.
The survey was unscientific and polled mostly small companies. Only 2.3 percent of the 1,500 companies surveyed had more than 100 employees. It is, however, another indicator that cloud-computing-based employment brokers like Elance, ODesk and Freelancer.com are gaining acceptance.
These companies allow easy hiring and collaboration between, say, a software developer in Russia and a marketing specialist in England on a project for a firm based in the United States. Job candidates present portfolios of past work, bid on listed jobs and are rated, much like the sellers of goods on eBay.
"The network transforms the locus of work from the desktop to the human," said Fabio Rosati, the chief executive of Elance, which has over 500,000 active contractors worldwide. "You don't need physical infrastructure to be anywhere. You need a new workplace." By 2020, he thinks, one in three workers will be hired online, perhaps never to meet an employer or work in a company building.
The customers also indicated they were acting on their intentions. Seventy-three percent said they would hire more contractors in 2012 than in 2011. Web programming, graphic design and content development continue to remain the top three skills sought and 40 percent of customers said they had gone online because it gave them a better pool of potential hires.
Another big driver is probably economic necessity. Companies in Europe, now among the most troubled of the world's major economic regions, were even more aggressive on both short-term hiring and longer-term revamping. The companies thought that by 2017, 58 percent of their staff would be freelancers. In addition, Greece and Spain have had some of the biggest increases in the number of potential contractors seeking work over the last year.
Mr. Rosati said the small companies, in particular, also liked Elance because it enabled them to look, and act, like bigger companies, without the cost of taking on full-time staff. That would indicate that these shops, in turn, are meeting their customers in a virtual space. "They are mini-multinationals," he said, "able to work anywhere in the world."
The companies also liked the speed with which they could get things done; 70 percent of the respondents in the survey said this was an important factor.
While the trend is still small, the notion that employment in the cloud will become a big way to organize work has dramatic implications. If teams can be organized around the world to execute specific tasks, then be reconfigured or dissolved for the next job, tax collection could be increasingly challenging. So could the financing of programs that rely on the steady extraction of taxes from a weekly paycheck, since workers would be paid on a less-regular basis and might not report all of their jobs.

        
Hurd Sells Oracle's Cloud in the Oracle Style
        
Meg Whitman's Defining Moment, Still Undefined
        
CEOs and CIOs Are Increasingly Disconnected
        
NetSuite Moves to 'Commerce as a Service'
        
How to Run Your (Not Small) Company Off of a Laptop

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (92%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); CLOUD COMPUTING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (71%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (67%) Cloud Computing; elance; freelancing; Computers and the Internet; Freelancing, Self-Employment and Independent Contracting; Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; Small Business; Enterprise Computing; Internet; Start-ups

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (67%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); ENGLAND (55%); GREECE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



503 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: Designing a Connected Planet

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A contest seeks young designers aiming to connect the disconnected. 

 BODY:
Brown University and the Rhode Island School of Design host an annual student-organized conference called "A Better World by Design," and each year there's a related student design competition. This year's design challenge, under way right now, is aimed at "connecting the disconnected," with a focus on expanding high-speed Internet access.
Here's the call to action: 
Information is exchanged faster and more efficiently than ever before, making way for global economic growth and an improved quality of life. The spread of information is revolutionizing our education, delivery of health care, public safety, social engagement, and distribution of knowledge. In the midst of this rapid growth, many populations remain disconnected from these opportunities because of educational, economical, or geographical disadvantages.
A Better World by Design and Broadband RI want your help to creatively solve this problem. We encourage you to approach the challenge from any direction or discipline. Your plan can be directed toward the community of your choice or even scaled across the globe. 
If you submit a rough draft proposal by July 15, you can get mentorship and advice from partners in the project, Broadband RI, Dell Social Innovation, and Good Corps. Final submissions are due Sept. 1. The details and rules are here.

        
Making Information Matter in a Noisy Age
        
How Twitter Matters: Casting a Worldwide Net
        
Building a 'Knowosphere,' One Cable and Campus at a Time
        
Going Beyond Finding Your Roof on Google Earth
        
Exploring How Communication Can Smooth the Human Journey

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BROADBAND (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%) broadband; communication; Design; equity; internet; knowosphere; web; Colleges and Universities; Computers and the Internet; Brown University; Rhode Island; Education; innovation

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Brown University; Rhode Island

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



504 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 284 words

HEADLINE: Driveshaft Defect Prompts Recall of 50,000 Honda Civics From 2012

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER JENSEN


HIGHLIGHT: The driveshaft may become loose when the car is in motion, causing a loss of forward movement, the automaker said. 

 BODY:
Honda recently informed the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration that it would recall about 50,000 of its 2012 Civics because the vehicles might suddenly lose power.
In a report filed early Wednesday on the safety agency's Web site, the automaker said the driver's side driveshaft could become loose while the vehicle was in motion. This could cause a loss of propulsion or, for a model fitted with an automatic transmission, cause a roll-away even when the gear selector was in Park.
The recall covers two-door and four-door models. Another 14,000 vehicles are being recalled outside the United States, according to Alicia Jones, a Honda spokeswoman. The Civic received a significant update for the 2012 model year, its first since 2006.
Honda said a machine was used to position the driveshaft into a constant-velocity joint. When the machine did not perform the positioning adequately, employees at plants in Indiana and Ontario, Canada, did not "consistently" carry out the proper repair, the automaker said.
Honda began investigating the problem after a warranty claim early in January. The automaker told N.H.T.S.A. it was not aware of any crashes or injuries related to the problem.
Honda described the recall as voluntary, but once a manufacturer is aware of a safety problem it has no choice but to inform the safety agency within five working days of its plan for a recall.

        
Gas Leak Prompts Warranty Extension for 80,000 Honda Civic Hybrids
        
Honda Adds 273,000 Vehicles to Long-Running Air Bag Recall
        
Agency Investigates 170,000 Ford Freestyle Crossovers for 'Lunging' Condition
        
Honda Expands Air-Bag Recall to 833,000 Additional Vehicles
        
285,000 Hyundai Elantras Recalled for Air-Bag Inflation Issue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMAKERS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (91%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (71%) Honda Civic; n.h.t.s.a.; Automobile Safety Features and Defects; Automobiles; Honda Motor Co Ltd; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; recall; safety

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (94%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION (93%) Honda Motor Co Ltd; National Highway Traffic Safety Administration

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (94%); HMC (NYSE) (94%); 7267 (TSE) (94%) Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (70%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



505 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Elinor Ostrom Reading List

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Links to more information on Professor Ostrom, the first and only woman to have won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science. She died on Tuesday. 

 BODY:
As noted earlier, Elinor Ostrom, the first and only woman to have won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science, died on Tuesday.
For those interested in more information about Professor Ostrom, here's a brief reading list:

        
A news conference with Professor Ostrom on the day she won her Nobel in 2009.
        
Her prize citation.
        
The prize committee's explanation of her work, intended for a popular audience. A more advanced explanation of the research.
        
Professor Ostrom's C.V., which includes links to most of her research. Her best-known book is probably "Governing the Commons: the Evolution of Institutions for Collective Action."
        
Interviews with Professor Ostrom and her co-laureate, Oliver Williamson, from the Nobel Web site.
        
A press release from Indiana University, where she taught for many years, about her death.
        
Her Prize Lecture, delivered in Sweden (video and text).
        
A brief autobiography, including recollections of how she was discouraged from studying economics because she "had been advised as a girl against taking any courses beyond algebra and geometry in high school."
        
The Workshop in Political Theory and Policy Analysis, which she founded with her husband, Vincent.
        
Photos from the prize ceremony.
        
Nancy Folbre on what Professor Ostrom's win says about women and tribalism in economics.
        
Edward L. Glaeser explains the significance of Professor Ostrom's and Professor Williamson's work.
        
Comments from other economists on the 2009 Nobel announcement.

        
Only Woman to Win Nobel in Economics Dies
        
What We're Reading ...
        
The Economics of the America's Cup
        
The Economics Club
        
Larry David Explains the Nobel in Economic Science

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (95%); NOBEL PRIZES (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); GEOMETRY (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (53%) Elinor Ostrom; Ostrom, Elinor

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWEDEN (79%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



506 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: The End of the Summer Job?

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Only about 3 in 10 teenagers can find a summer job. 

 BODY:
Summer jobs for teenagers are increasingly hard to find. Only 3 out of every 10 teenagers held a full- or part-time job in July of 2011. In 1989, that rate was nearly twice as high: nearly 6 of every 10 teenagers from 16 to 19 years old held jobs, and even in July of 2005, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that more than half of 16- to 19-year-olds were employed.
What happened? Obviously, unemployment rates are higher for most demographic groups since 2008, but the decline has been greater for teenage workers. Before you point to a cultural shift in priorities that's left financially fortunate students spending their summer on enrichment activities, consider this: According to researchers for the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University, more affluent teens were more than twice as likely to work as their peers from low income homes. 
The Associated Press's Hope Yen reportsthat "economists say teens who aren't getting jobs are often those who could use them the most. Many are not moving on to more education." The Northeastern University researchers point in part to a decline in "subsidized employment and job placement services from labor market intermediaries (W.I.A. youth programs, career specialists in high school)" and to the demise of the federally funded summer youth employment program.
Some states, like Rhode Island, and towns, like Middletown, Conn., have their own programs, as does New York City, but it's not enough to fill the gap. Meanwhile, immigrants, older workers and recent college graduates are competing fiercely for the entry-level jobs that teenagers used to fill, and no one predicts a return to the days when seasonal businesses clamored for teenagers to man cash registers anytime soon.

        
'Mom, Are We the 1 Percent?'
        
Are Single-Sex Groups Better for Preventing Dating Violence?
        
Why Camp Counselors Can Out-Parent Parents
        
The Camp Counselor vs. the Intern
        
Mitt Romney, Bullying and Long Shadows

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); PARENTING (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); AFFLUENT MARKET (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (62%) jobs; Money; summer job; teenagers; Work; Families and Family Life; Labor and Jobs; Parenting; Teenagers and Adolescence

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (82%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



507 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: The Best Countries to Be a Woman - and the Worst

BYLINE: KATRIN BENNHOLD


HIGHLIGHT: India is last among the G20 and the United States didn't crack the top five in the latest survey to reflect poorly on the situation of American women. 

 BODY:
India, a country best-known for its rising economic might, is the worst place to be a woman among the world's biggest economies, and Canada the best, according to a survey of experts published Wednesday.
The Group of 20 survey by TrustLaw, a legal news service of the Thomson Reuters Foundation, found that a combination of infanticide, child marriage and slavery left India at the bottom of the ranking, lagging even Saudi Arabia, where women are still not allowed to drive and only gained the vote in 2011.
The poll of 370 gender experts also held some surprises, finding that Canada's policy mix giving women access to health care and opportunities and protecting them against violence made it more egalitarian than some European nations and the United States.
Canada and the United States may share a border, a language and much cultural affinity, but if women face broadly similar situations in terms of education and economic opportunity in the two countries, they are far apart in the area of gender equality, the experts said.
Poor access to health care and a highly polarizing debate about reproductive rights in the United States were two factors that kept America out of the top five, ranking it sixth in the poll, after Canada, Germany, Britain, Australia and France, the survey found.
"Canada leads the pack with its promotion of women's access and opportunities across various sectors of society, including education, economic participation and health care," Sarah Degnan Kambou, president of the International Center for Research on Women in Washington, which took part in the survey, told TrustLaw.
The survey assesses gender equality in the G20 countries in six categories: quality of health, freedom from violence, participation in politics, workplace opportunities, access to resources and freedom from trafficking and slavery.
It is the latest of several studies that reflect poorly on the situation of women in the United States, the world's largest economy.
Last month a report by Save the Children suggested that America is one of the worst places to be a mother among rich countries, pointing to what it said were one of the highest maternal mortality rates and worst breastfeeding environments among developed countries.
According to World Health Organization statistics used in Save The Children's 2012 Mother's Index, the lifetime risk of a woman in the United States to die from a pregnancy-related or birth-related cause stands at 1 in 2,100. Only three other countries categorized as "more developed nations" by Save the Children, rank lower: Albania, Moldova and Russia.
"On most of the health indicators, whether it's maternal mortality, child mortality or life expectancy, the U.S. does much worse than you would expect," said Patrick Watt, global campaign and advocacy director for Save the Children. "The U.S. spends a lot on health as a percentage of G.D.P. but is very inefficient in translating that into health gains."
The TrustLaw survey was conducted in 19 G20 nations. It did not include the European Union, which is a member of the G20 but whose 27 member-states have greatly varied gender policies.
The other members of the G20 are Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Britain, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, South Korea, Turkey and the United States. 

        
Lady Macbeth, Where Are You When We Need You?
        
Rights Erode Before Women's Eyes
        
Womenscapes
        
Israel's Clash of Civilizations
        
Tech World Double Standard for Women Entrepreneurs?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); GENDER EQUALITY (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); RANKINGS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); SLAVERY (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (75%); BREASTFEEDING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); MARRIAGE (71%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%) G20; women and children; women and girls; women's rights; Women and Girls; Group of Twenty; Save the Children; TrustLaw; Canada; India; United States; Featured; The Female Factor; View From Asia; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: SAVE THE CHILDREN (84%); THE INTERNATIONAL CENTER (54%) Group of Twenty; Save the Children; TrustLaw

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (97%); EUROPE (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (76%) Canada; India; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012



508 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: BlackRock Hires Former Swiss Central Bank Chief

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Philipp M. Hildebrand, who will oversee BlackRock's institutional client relationships outside the United States, stepped down from the Swiss National Bank in January after doubts were raised about currency trades he and his wife made in 2011. 

 BODY:
LONDON - The money manager BlackRock has hired Philipp M. Hildebrand, who resigned under a cloud from the Swiss National Bank in January, to oversee institutional client relationships outside the United States.
Mr. Hildbebrand, 48, stepped down as head of Switzerland's central bank after doubts were raised about currency trades he and his wife made in 2011.
He had been an advocate for stricter banking regulation and played a central role in the Swiss National Bank's efforts to keep investors from bidding up the value of the Swiss franc, which is seen as a haven from the current global turmoil.
In his new role at BlackRock, Mr. Hildebrand will advise the firm's clients across Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia-Pacific region, according to a company statement. He is expected to begin work in October and will be based in London, BlackRock said in a statement on Wednesday.
In recent years, BlackRock has grown in prominence, advising a number of heavily indebted companies and countries, including Greece, about how to weather the financial crisis. BlackRock has around $3.7 trillion of assets under management.
The firm has hired several former United States government officials, among them Kendrick R. Wilson, previously an adviser in the Treasury Department and a former Goldman Sachs banker, to expand its American operations. 
In addition to his leading role at Switzerland's central bank, Mr. Hildebrand has a track record of working in the private sector. He previously held positions at the Swiss private bank Vontobel Group and the American hedge fund Moore Capital Management.
"Few leaders are as widely respected for their expertise, judgment and integrity as Philipp Hildebrand," BlackRock's chief executive, Laurence D. Fink, said in a statement on Wednesday.

        
CVC Capital Is Said to Have Cut Its Stake in Formula One
        
Barclays to Sell Its Stake in BlackRock

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING LAW (73%); DIVESTITURES (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) BlackRock; Philipp Hildebrand; Swiss National Bank; Hildebrand, Philipp M; Banking and Financial Institutions; Hiring and Promotion; BlackRock Inc; BlackRock Inc|BLK|NYSE; Financial Services; Revolving Door

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); BLACKROCK INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MOORE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BlackRock Inc; Swiss National Bank

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (93%); BK (NYSE) (92%); BLK (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (90%) BlackRock Inc; BLK; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (92%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: LAURENCE D FINK (58%) Hildebrand, Philipp M

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (96%); SWITZERLAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



509 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Leaks and Press Freedoms

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Selective disclosures of sensitive information can be a form of currency to reward or punish news organizations, and ultimately are a disservice to media independence, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
 
Government leaks and a free press are not always compatible.
Democracy is said to depend on freedom of the press and other news media, especially the freedom to publish information and opinions without approval or censure from government officials. Empirically, there is a strong correlation between press freedoms and the fairness of elections, absence of autocratic leaders and other hallmarks of democracy.
Full and complete freedoms of the press and other news media are not an automatic consequence of economic development, education and other factors thought to foster democracies. For example, a 2001 World Bank study of 97 countries found that governments commonly owned their nation's television stations. 
Even in Western Europe, countries otherwise known for their political freedoms, government television stations made up more than half of the television market. 
In the United States, most newspapers, television stations and cable television channels are owned and operated by private or publicly owned companies, and the government has little to say about what is published in or broadcast over them, with the exception of obscene, indecent or profane programming transmitted by conventional broadcasting systems, which are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission.
One suspects that Americans and news organizations would loudly object if the government offered cash subsidies to newspapers or television stations as a reward for printing or broadcasting favorable coverage of elected officials or levied special taxes on news organizations as a punishment for unfavorable coverage. 
Such practices would not explicitly prohibit unfavorable coverage but would make it more difficult for outlets that displeased the government to survive in a competitive marketplace for readers and viewers.
But candidates and officials can and do reward specific news organizations with personal appearances and interviews that the news organizations and their owners find valuable - or withhold interviews from those they find hostile, as Barack Obama did with Fox News for much of his first presidential campaign. 
The private sector does not have the moral high ground, and there are times that private media outlets are unfair to government officials. Nevertheless, the American approach has been to prohibit the government from levying cash penalties on or offering cash rewards to media outlets on the basis of the fairness of their coverage.
Sometimes, however, government officials possess information that would be of interest to the public, and thereby valuable for news organizations. In principle, officials could reward favorable coverage by distributing or "leaking" more information to sympathetic outlets than to unfriendly ones.
We don't yet have a data set or systematic study of the transactional characteristics of leaks - such as which outlets receive the most leaks and whether those outlets are more favorable in their coverage to the agencies doing the leaking. But government leaks can potentially be a noncash currency that can be traded between the government and news organizations. 
Democracy is not jeopardized by a few leaks, and news media deal in a whole array of sports, business and other information to which government officials have no special access. But punishing government leakers is not inconsistent with democratic values. By preventing leaks from being used by the government as a currency for rewarding or penalizing media outlets, it could help keep the press truly independent.

        
Active Government Means More Lobbying
        
When a Spending Cut Can Be Like a Tax Increase
        
Career Concerns in Chicago
        
Supporting Bad Habits With Public Money
        
Will the I.R.S. Be Busy Next Year?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (95%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (94%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (66%) cable television; Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; leaks; media; news organizations; Newspapers; political campaigns; politics; television; Obama, Barack; Freedom of the Press; News and News Media; Fox News Channel; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%) Fox News Channel

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



510 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Dialing for Dollars

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times
 The presidential campaign has entered a phase dictated by the competitive realities of the deregulated campaign finance system, Ashley Parker and Helene Cooper report. Having decided not to take public financing for the general election, both President Obama and Mitt Romney need to devote much of their time to fund-raising, marking the completion of a gradual shift away from the days when candidates would be able to focus on campaigning after the primaries and rely on public financing for the general election.
 One of the nation's most influential evangelical groups defied the harsh rhetoric of the Republican primary race on Tuesday, with a call to recognize that the demography of the Christian conservative movement is becoming more Hispanic, Trip Gabriel reports. The group, Focus on the Family, said that Republican leaders - especially Mr. Romney - risk being out of step with evangelical Christians if their hawkish talk of border fences and immigration crackdowns like those in Arizona continue.
 The Romney campaign paid a price for political blunders early on -- and learned a lesson. Now it is making the Obama campaign squirm, Michael Barbaro reports, assailing the president for the fifth day in a row over remarks that it said revealed his disconnect from economic reality. The theme began on Friday after the president declared that the "private sector is doing fine" and shows no signs of letting up.
 Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. was criticized on Tuesday for appointing two United States attorneys to investigate recent disclosures of classified national security information instead of a special prosecutor, Michael S. Schmidt reports. At a committee hearing, Republican senators accused the Obama administration of leaking the information and said Mr. Holder was trying to shield the administration from the scrutiny of an independent prosecutor.
Happenings in Washington
 President Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will hold a bilateral meeting in the Oval Office with Shimon Peres, the president of Israel. Later, Mr. Obama will present Mr. Peres with the Presidential Medal of Freedom at a dinner in the White House.
 Bob Woodward will hold a special discussion at the Newseum for the 40th anniversary of Watergate.

        
The Early Word: Rifts
        
The Weekend Word: Investigation
        
The Early Word: Disapproval
        
The Early Word: Wisconsin, the Next Chapter
        
The Early Word: Paychecks

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); FUNDRAISING (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); IMMIGRATION (68%); BORDER CONTROL (68%); LAWYERS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (62%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%); SHIMON PERES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2012



511 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: For a Virginia Republican, a Comeback and a Tough Fight Ahead

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican Party's willingness to once again embrace George Allen as its Senate candidate for Virginia stands as a testament to short memories, a willingness to forgive and the potent desire to win. 

 BODY:
Political redemption, it seems, is almost never completely out of reach.
Six years ago, after losing his Virginia Senate seat and handing control of the chamber to Democrats, of his defeat would no longer loom so large.
"Sometimes winds - political or otherwise - can blow the leaves off branches and even break limbs," a reflective Mr. Allen said in November 2006. "But a deep-rooted tree will stand, stay standing," and "will regrow in the next season."
That next season began Tuesday, when Mr. Allen officially claimed the nomination of the Republican Party to regain his Senate seat. His former rival, James Webb, announced his retirement after just one term, and now Mr. Allen is one difficult election away from regaining what he lost.
He may or may not achieve that goal. He faces Tim Kaine, a popular ex-governor of the commonwealth, in a race that will draw huge resources from both parties. Mr. Allen's fortunes are tied to those of Mitt Romney in the state; political observers on both sides predict that if Mr. Romney, the Republican presidential hopeful, wins Virginia, so will Mr. Allen.
But regardless of the outcome on Nov. 6, the Republican Party's willingness to once again embrace Mr. Allen stands as a testament to short memories, a willingness to forgive and the potent desire to win. 
Mr. Allen was once a national star in the Republican Party with White House ambitions. But he became the political victim of a viral Internet video when, at a campaign stop, he called a young man of Indian descent a "macaca," a term that can refer to monkeys. Mr. Webb's campaign eagerly pointed out the remark, and the furor over what Mr. Allen meant lasted for weeks.
Mr. Allen and his team fumbled the response, alternately accusing the media of a witch hunt and apologizing for any offense. Longtime supporters stuck by him, but had long since given the maximum they could contribute for Mr. Allen's presidential hopes. His fund-raising dried up amid questions about ethnic insensitivities.
But while the political history of Mr. Allen's 2006 loss is often attributed simply to that one phrase, it was much more than that.
Questions about Mr. Allen's relationship to the black community were given new life by the controversy over his remarks. Stories about the Confederate flag he embraced in high school were written again. He once again had in his law office - a Western lasso, he said, not a hateful symbol.
Even more damaging were accusations - suddenly public - that Mr. Allen had used racial epithets against African-Americans while he was in college. At one point, Mr. Allen gathered a group of African-American ministers behind him for a news conference at which he angrily denied using the epithets.
And in the midst of it all was the odd revelation of Mr. Allen's Jewish heritage, the knowledge of which Mr. Allen discovered from his elderly mother after reporters pressed for more information about his background.
Asked about his Jewish ancestry at a debate, Mr. Allen angrily accused the reporter of "making aspersions." But a few days later, his mother said she had finally revealed the truth she had been hiding from her children for decades: that she was brought up Jewish in North Africa after World War II and hid the fact when she moved back to the United States.
"We sat across the table and he said, 'Mom, there's a rumor that Pop-pop and Mom-mom were Jewish and so were you,'" Henrietta Allen recalled her son asking. Having received her answer, Mr. Allen issued a statement acknowledging and embracing his Jewish roots.
Mr. Allen's campaign against Mr. Webb hit back, running ads about an article titled "Women Can't Fight," that Mr. Webb had written about his days at the Naval Academy. In one passage, Mr. Webb had recalled his dorms there as "a horny woman's dream."
But it was not enough for Mr. Allen, who lost that year by about 9,000 votes out of about 2.3 million cast.
For nearly five years after his loss, Mr. Allen disappeared from Virginia's political scene, nursing his wounds and, aides promised, planning his eventual return to public service. On Tuesday, Mr. Allen easily swept aside three Republican challengers.
"Virginians are fired up, and they're ready for America's comeback," Mr. Allen told a small crowd near Richmond on Tuesday night.
Standing with him was Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, whose political career in Virginia has taken off nationally even as Mr. Allen's stalled. Standing with him was Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, whose political career in Virginia has taken off nationally even as Mr. Allen's stalled. Ken Cuccinelli, the state's Republican attorney general, endorsed Mr. Allen on Wednesday, saying his record "towers above Tim Kaine's." Their support for Mr. Allen is an indication of how much the Republican establishment has moved past Mr. Allen's 2006 campaign.
Now, the question is whether the voters of the state have moved on, too.
The Republican primary on Tuesday was a low-turnout affair, a small and partisan slice of the state's voting population. Election Day in five months will be a broader test of the electorate's willingness to forgive and forget.
So far, Mr. Kaine's campaign has mostly stayed away from the controversies that dogged Mr. Allen's 2006 campaign, preferring to try and keep the focus on economic concerns that voters say are most important.
But aides do not promise that Mr. Kaine will never bring them up. During an early debate last year in Richmond, Mr. Kaine chided Mr. Allen for the "macaca" moment.
"There was no mistake about what those words meant," Mr. Kaine said at the debate, which was hosted by The Associated Press. "It's part of the divisive politics that we've got to put behind in this country."
If the race between Mr. Kaine and Mr. Allen is close toward the end - and most advisers to the candidates believe it will be - there could be pressure on Mr. Kaine to revive the controversies in television commercials. Such a move could tip the scale in Mr. Kaine's favor, or it could backfire.
Mr. Allen is the son of George Allen, the famed former coach of the Washington Redskins football team. The son favors cowboy boots and often tosses footballs with nearby staff members. On the day he conceded in 2006, he seemed eager to play ball again.
"Teammates, fellow patriots," he said, "stay strong and stand strong for freedom!"

        
In Virginia, Kaine Jumps to Substantial Fund-Raising Lead
        
Tim Kaine Announces Senate Run in Virginia
        
Will Obama Ask Kaine to Seek Virginia Senate Seat?
        
Senator Webb Will Not Run for Re-election
        
Allen Wins Republican Senate Primary in Virginia

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); RACE & RACISM (86%); CAUCUSES (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); FUNDRAISING (69%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%) 2012; 2012 campaign; 2012 election; george allen; macc; Senate; tim kaine; Virginia; Allen, George F; Cantor, Eric; Kaine, Timothy M; Webb, James H Jr; Congress; Elections; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Senate

PERSON: TIM KAINE (92%); JIM WEBB (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ERIC CANTOR (74%) Allen, George F; Cantor, Eric; Kaine, Timothy M; Webb, James H Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Virginia

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



512 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 3310 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: Senate Banking Hearing on JPMorgan

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, is testifying on Wednesday before the Senate Banking Committee about a failed derivatives trade that could cost the bank as much as $5 billion in losses. 

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chairman and chief executive, testified before the Senate Banking Committee about the multibillion-dollar trading losses incurred at his firm's chief investment office. 
 Mr. Dimon has maintained that the loss was an "isolated event" without broader repercussions for customers or taxpayers. He has said that risk was necessary in banking, and said JPMorgan had the necessary strength to withstand the losses, which could eventually swell to $5 billion.
During the hearing, Mr. Dimon faced questions about how JPMorgan's chief investment office failed to clamp down on a complex derivatives trade that metastasized into an unwieldy and hard-to-unwind gamble that failed. He addressed queries about whether the firm's losses should prompt even tougher banking regulations, something Mr. Dimon has long opposed. 
Here was DealBook's live blog of the hearing. 
12:14 P.M. | Wrapping up
With Mr. Bennet's questions answered, Mr. Johnson, the committee chairman, wraps up the testimony.
"Today's hearing is a reminder that we can't let down our guard and that we must remain vigilant," he said.
With that, the hearing has concluded.
12:13 P.M. | Unwinding the Bet
Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado, opens up by playfully bemoaning that his turn has come at the end of the hearing. All his colleagues have already asked a lot of good questions.
That said, he makes a basic query. Why did the chief investment office not just unwind the trades in the first place? Why go the more complex route of building up a second portfolio that eventually went awry?
Mr. Dimon said that he was told that the thinking of the executives involved in the trade was that the chosen method was more cost-efficient. In other words, it was cheaper.
12:05 P.M. | Sizing Up the Bet
Senator Kay Hagan, Democrat of North Carolina, is interested in the size of the chief investment office's soured bet. "How big was the position," she asked, "and how could it be so large without coming to the attention of management and regulators?"
Mr. Dimon declines to comment, saying his first duty is to manage his company properly. All he will allow is that the C.I.O. gamble was "a complex series of trades," adding, "Like I've said, we've managed that risk down."
12:02 P.M. | Picking on Volcker
Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, returns to the Volcker Rule. "Is there a version of the Volcker Rule that you think makes sense?"
Mr. Dimon says he thinks it is going to be very hard to get it right, given what he calls vague language. But Mr. Vitter interjects, asking whether there should even be such a regulation.
"I thought it was unnecessary when it was added on top of other stuff," Mr. Dimon responded.
11:58 A.M. | Relatively Safe
Mr. Merkley cites numerous reports about JPMorgan executives believing they were instructed to invest in higher-yield securities to generate a profit, or in the firm's parlance, "icing." He asks Mr. Dimon, "Shouldn't you take personal responsibility?"
Mr. Dimon bristles a bit and says the firm is following a relatively safe strategy, one that is much less risk-averse.
11:53 A.M. | A fight with the senator from Oregon
Mr. Dimon gets testy for the first time in the hearing. "I think you are misinformed," he told Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, who said JPMorgan was saved by government bailouts in 2008.
"You're factually wrong," Mr. Dimon said.
The senator responds, "Let's agree to disagree."
11:51 A.M. | Defining proprietary trading
When asked by Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, about the Volcker Rule, Mr. Dimon launches into a speech about what he describes as the dangers of an overly simplistic regulation.
"We have the widest, deepest capital markets in the world," he said. "It would be a shame to end that."
Mr. Dimon says it is counterproductive to think of "proprietary trading" as a binary phenomenon. Instead, he says, what appear to be simple banking businesses can be more nuanced.
He says, for example, that banks need to buy securities in anticipation of investor demand, making only a little bit of money in the process. That is not proprietary trading, he argues. (It would be called market-making.)
"We need to go through the details to make sure we get it right," he said.
11:44 A.M. | Questioning the foreclosure paperwork problem
Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, asks why banks have been unable to sort out paperwork problems relating to foreclosures.
Mr. Dimon says JPMorgan has hired 20,000 people to deal with foreclosures. "We're doing it better, we're doing it faster," he said, adding, "I have to confess that we were not as good at it when we started."
Mr. Kohl gets in a barb about how problematic it is that a firm like JPMorgan cannot sort out its paperwork on an issue as important as foreclosures.
11:40 A.M. | 'Living wills' and 'Old Testament justice'
Senator Jerry Moran, Republican of Kansas, asks Mr. Dimon about so-called living wills, a part of Dodd-Frank that is supposed to help wind down a failing large bank.
The JPMorgan chief prefaces his remarks by saying that lawmakers should "get rid of anything that looks anything like too big to fail." He adds, "We shouldn't prop them up. They should be allowed to fail."
Mr. Dimon says that rather than calling the closure of such banks "resolution," it should be called "bankruptcy for big dumb banks." He adds that there should be clawbacks from failed banks.
And then to punctuate the point, he said, "I think the names should be buried in disgrace. Some Old Testament justice here."
11:34 A.M. | More on MF Global
Mr. Tester delves a bit more into MF Global and how involved JPMorgan was in the brokerage's final days. He notes why he is asking:
"There were a lot of farmers that hedged to protect themselves from bad outcomes. And if this money was segregated, and it was transferred I'm just trying to look out for my folks."
Mr. Dimon answers, "I hope they get their money back."
11:30 A.M. | Segue to MF Global
Senator Jon Tester, Democrat of Montana, shifts the focus from JPMorgan's chief investment office and asks about the bank's dealings with MF Global. He references the latest report by one of the bankrupt brokerage firm's court-appointed trustees.
JPMorgan, MF Global's main bank, received hundreds of millions of dollars. "Why did it take your firm seven months to return these funds?" Mr. Tester asked.
"We immediately went to the trustees and the courts," Mr. Dimon replied. "We've cooperated every step of the way with authorities."
11:27 A.M. | To relocate or to give up?
Mr. Johanns says some firms have chosen to relocate their headquarters to avoid onerous regulations, then adds that it is unlikely JPMorgan will move to his state of Nebraska.
Mr. Dimon smiles a bit and says that while such a move is unlikely, he would like to come visit.
More seriously, Mr. Johanns says he is curious about whether firms smaller than JPMorgan will try to move, or just give up rather than deal with tough new regulations. Mr. Dimon says he does not know.
11:23 A.M. | The costs of higher regulation
Senator Mike Johanns, Republican of Nebraska, asks how much new regulations have increased JPMorgan's costs.
Mr. Dimon says that his current estimate - a rough one, he adds - is about $1 billion a year. That is across the entire firm, including hundreds of programs aimed at maintaining compliance with an array of rules from the United States, Europe and elsewhere.
11:22 A.M. | 'Too big to regulate'
Mr. Brown adds his own bit of editorial commentary, pointing out the sheer size of JPMorgan, a "$2.3 trillion bank" with scores of subsidiaries.
"Executives and regulators simply can't understand what's happening" in all these businesses, the senator said. "Too big to fail means too big to manage and too big to regulate."
11:17 A.M. | The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, wants to know if the comptroller of currency was told of the chief investment office's trades.
Mr. Dimon reiterates that JPMorgan is a very "open kimono" with regulators. But he says that the fault lies with the bank's executives, not regulators.
"The mistake we made, we passed onto them," he says. "But the second we found out, the first person we were on the phone with was our regulator."
11:15 A.M. | Seeking advice from Mr. Dimon on regulation
Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, is up now, and seems a bit more conciliatory. "I think a lot of us are frustrated bank managers and want to manage your business for you," he says. Mr. Dimon doesn't smile.
Mr. DeMint expresses some concern about Dodd-Frank and asks again what Mr. Dimon thinks can be done to improve the regulatory framework. 
This time, the banking chief provides some unvarnished thoughts on the new rules, saying that at times he is not always aware of which regulator has jurisdiction on a particular issue, and that there is not a way for the agencies to adjudicate such potential conflicts.
"I prefer a strong, clean regulation system," he says. "That's not what we did."
11:08 A.M. | Pointing to Mr. Dimon's own words
Mr. Menendez tries to use Mr. Dimon's own remarks against him, citing both the executive's lauding of JPMorgan's "fortress balance sheet" and his pushback against parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, which includes higher capital requirements for banks.
"Your bank has been lobbying against the very guarantees that will protect the taxpayer," the senator says. His main point: a lot of JPMorgan's moat was dug with taxpayer help.
Mr. Dimon responds that JPMorgan supported a lot of the act's provisions, including higher capital balances.
11:07 A.M. | Comparing the trade to Russian roulette
Senator Bob Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, is a bit tougher on Mr. Dimon, asking bluntly, "Did the hedge morph into Russian roulette?"
Mr. Dimon answers, "I can't defend it." 
11:04 A.M. | A show of patriotism from Mr. Dimon
Mr. Dimon says the United States is an environment for commerce. "The American business machine is the best in the world," he said, adding that he hoped Americans could move forward from "shooting each other."
Mr. Corker agrees with the little burst of patriotism.
11:01 A.M. | Questioning the merits of the Dodd-Frank Act
Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, is up now, and he seems intent on calling into question the benefits of Dodd-Frank. (Republican lawmakers have been largely opposed to swaths of the financial regulation overhaul.)
He asks Mr. Dimon: "Has Dodd-Frank more than marginally made our banking system safer?" Mr. Corker also cites another banking chief, who apparently said the new rules "really missed the mark."
The JPMorgan chief answers that some elements of it, coupled with higher capital and liquidity levels, have made the banking system safer. But when asked whether Dodd-Frank was effective as a whole, Mr. Dimon said, "I don't know."
10:56 A.M. | Nothing nefarious here
When asked if the chief investment office's intent was hedging or making a profit, Mr. Dimon demurs. He says that he is not going to defend the trade, deeming that it was in defiance of common sense.
But he adds that he does believe the trade was set up to protect the firm, rather than to skirt regulations.
10:53 A.M. | Modeling
Senator Jack Reed, Democrat of Rhode Island, is interested in risk models. He wants to know whether the Office of the Comptroller of Currency, a top banking regulator, was aware of the change in the C.I.O.'s risk model earlier this year.
Mr. Dimon says he does not know, but adds that the firm is an "open kimono" when it comes to informing regulators. He also adds that JPMorgan has hundreds of models, which adjust for any number of internal and external factors.
10:50 A.M. | Hedging
Mr. Crapo asks about the difference between hedging and proprietary trading, and whether the two could be distinguished.
Mr. Dimon says that is not always possible, adding that he is a proponent of allowing "portfolio hedging," a sometimes controversial practice that nominally allows a firm to protect against an array of trades rather than just one. "There are ways and methods and analytics to protect the company from a bad outcome," he said.
10:48 A.M. | More on regulation
Senator Mike Crapo, Republican of Idaho, asks what areas of oversight Congress and regulators should focus on to be most effective. Mr. Dimon begins by noting that he has worked in a regulated industry - banking - all his adult life.
He says that it is hard to expect regulators to prevent something like his bank's trading losses. "It's unrealistic to expect them to stop something like this," Mr. Dimon said. "It's purely management's mistake."
High capital levels are important, Mr. Dimon says, as are smart regulations. But regulators "won't stop mistakes, just make them smaller and fewer in between."
10:44 A.M. | Asking Mr. Dimon for advice
Mr. Schumer asks the JPMorgan chief about how regulators can better monitor banks and nonbanking institutions. Mr. Dimon demurs, saying only that regulators are currently trying to decide the issue.
Commentators on Twitter are aghast at the question, deeming it an example of "regulatory capture." Reuters' Counterparties writes on Twitter "#wegiveup."
10:41 A.M. | Questioning JPMorgan's risk committee
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, asks about the role of the risk committee of JPMorgan's board.
Mr. Dimon defends the committee, which has been criticized in the wake of the loss. He says that the committee works in conjunction with the audit committee and the bank's full board, adding that the risk committee took JPMorgan through the toughest financial crisis "of all time" with what he called "flying colors."
10:36 A.M. | A hedge or a profit-maker?
Mr. Shelby asks Mr. Dimon if he would "feel more comfortable in a closed hearing." The JPMorgan chief does not take him up on the offer.
Then the senator asks a major question: was the C.I.O. trying to hedge, or engage in proprietary trading? This is an important point because Dodd-Frank regulations will eventually prohibit the latter. Mr. Shelby notes that the office contributed more than $4 billion in profit over three years.
Mr. Dimon said that it began as a hedge, but then grew into something else.
He added that the firm did not exercise what he said was its normal discipline. "We didn't have it here," Mr. Dimon said, "and that's what caused the problem."
10:31 A.M. | A question of compensation
When asked about any decision to exempt the chief investment office, or C.I.O., from risk controls that applied to other parts of JPMorgan, Mr. Dimon said: "The first error we had made was that the C.I.O. unit had done so well for so long that there was a sense of complacency."
Asked about whether compensation played a role in allowing the trading losses to begin and mount, Mr. Dimon said none of the employees were paid based on a formula and were instead paid for their performance as a whole. "I don't believe that the compensation made this problem worse," he said.
And when asked whether JPMorgan would seek to claw back the compensation of any executives involved in the C.I.O. trades, Mr. Dimon said that might happen.
10:28 A.M. | 'I was dead wrong'
Mr. Johnson asks Mr. Dimon about his now-infamous "tempest in a teapot" comment, initially dismissing reports about trading positions by the chief investment office. The JPMorgan chief responds, "I was dead wrong."
He said that while on the road, he called Ina Drew, who was the the unit's leader at the time, about news reports regarding the big bet. Mr. Dimon said he was assured it was an "isolated problem."
10:25 A.M. | JPMorgan, unbowed
Mr. Dimon boasts that, even after the loss, the bank will have a "solidly profitable" quarter. But that does not quite address the point made by the chairman and the ranking member about how capital alone is not a sufficient safeguard against disaster.
10:24 A.M. | And here's Mr. Dimon
Finally, Mr. Dimon begins his testimony, drawing from his prepared remarks. He explains the function of JPMorgan's chief investment office, the business unit responsible for the huge trading loss.
He concedes that what could have been a simple shrinking of a credit-derivatives portfolio instead mushroomed into a gigantic trade that ultimately got out of control. And Mr. Dimon apologizes.
"This portfolio morphed into something that, rather than protect the firm, created new and potentially larger risks," he said. "As a result, we have let a lot of people down, and we are sorry for it."
10:16 A.M. | And now the ranking member speaks
Senator Shelby, the committee's ranking Republican member, begins. "Normally, it is not and, I believe, should not be the role of Congress to second-guess decisions by private-sector businesses," he said. But because of the government's guarantee on deposits, it has a role to play in issues where the stability of the nation's banking system is called into question.
Mr. Shelby seconds Mr. Johnson's point about capital, saying, "Although capital should be the first line of defense against taxpayer bailouts, it should not be the only defense."
The senator also wants to know what JPMorgan's management knew about the trades and when did they know the facts. Mr. Shelby asks rhetorically whether Mr. Dimon put too much faith in the results shown by JPMorgan's risk models, or if he ignored them.
What is clear, Mr. Shelby said, is that "it appears in this particular case, things got away" from the banking chief.
10:10 A.M. | Where were the controls?
Mr. Johnson continues his opening remarks, asking, "Where were the controls?" Was JPMorgan seeking to hedge its risks, he asks, or was it seeking to make a profit?
The chairman also says that regulators must do their jobs, maintaining "careful scrutiny and oversight so that unsafe and unsound practices do not threaten our economy."
Mr. Johnson adds that while capital "does and must play an important role" as a backstop, it can't be the only guarantee against disaster.
All the while, Mr. Dimon sits quietly.
10:05 A.M. | The chairman starts the hearing
Mr. Johnson gets the hearing under way. "Since the announcement of the loss in early May," he said, "this committee has heard from the O.C.C. and the Fed, which are the primary regulators of JPMorgan, as well as the S.E.C." 
Mr. Johnson adds that last week, regulators informed the committee that there was a breakdown in risk management involved in these trades.
"Questions must be answered if we want our largest bank to maintain its stability," the senator says.
10:04 A.M. | More cries from the crowd
More hecklers have emerged from the crowd. C-Span shows the protesters being escorted out. The chambers are now atwitter - and possibly on Twitter, taking note of the outbursts.
10:02 A.M. | Throwing the heckler out
The committee chairman, Senator Tim Johnson, Democrat of South Dakota, has called for the sergeant-at-arms to escort the apparently undeterred heckler out of the chamber. The unidentified man continued his tirade by shouting that bankers were "predators on American taxpayer money."
9:59 A.M. | Cries from the crowd
As Mr. Dimon sits down, there are already cries from the crowd. Someone shouts, "Jamie Dimon is a crook" and adds that the executive should go to prison.
9:57 A.M. | The promise of even more drama
Ben Protess of DealBook, who is on the scene in Washington, writes: Senator Richard Shelby, the ranking Republican on the committee, has warned that he will call for a closed-door session if Mr. Dimon fails to answers his questions. It is unclear if Democrats will agree to the move.
9:52 A.M. | The frenzy before the storm
Good morning, and welcome to what should be an interesting day. Jamie Dimon has yet to take the witness seat, and already a throng of photographers has surrounded the table where the JPMorgan chief will sit.

        
JPMorgan Chief Is Expected to Play Down Trade Risks at Hearing
        
After JPMorgan Trading Debacle, a Chorus of Criticism

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%) Bruno Iksil; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; London Whale; Dimon, James; Banking and Financial Institutions; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Senate Committee on Banking; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company; Senate Committee on Banking

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (94%); KAY HAGAN (58%); DAVID VITTER (58%); MICHAEL BENNET (52%) Dimon, James

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



513 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: With New Leader, Regulator Finds a New Direction as Well

BYLINE: JESSE EISINGER


HIGHLIGHT: Thomas J. Curry, who has been leading the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for six weeks, wants to refocus the mission of the agency by adding a dose of "healthy skepticism." 

 BODY:
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is so lenient on the banks it is supposed to regulate that it could be mistaken for a division of the United States Chamber of Commerce. Does its new head, Thomas J. Curry, have any hope of giving it a backbone?
Mr. Curry, a former director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a regulator that actually regulates, has been leading the O.C.C. for about six weeks. He made his debut in Congress last week, expressing contrition over his agency's failure to monitor JPMorgan Chase's trading that resulted in multibillion-dollar losses for the bank.
In an interview, Mr. Curry showed hopeful signs of recognizing what's wrong with the agency.
"I hear there are concerns out the about objectivity of the O.C.C.," he told me in his first public interview since taking the position. "It's not an issue of technical skills. It's really an issue of refocusing our mission and our sense of purpose and making sure we look at things with basically a healthy skepticism."
Sad to say, an emphasis on regulatory skepticism is what now passes for radical. But Mr. Curry has the right critique. The O.C.C. is smart enough, professional enough and sufficiently funded.
But the agency suffers from "mission confusion," as a former regulator at a rival agency told me. Indeed, if anything, the comptroller's office is too smart and too good at what it does. The heavyweight there, by all accounts, is Julie Williams, the agency's general counsel. She is savvy, aggressive, generally knows more about bank rules than anyone else in the room - and consistently pushes for less regulation, according to other regulators and Congressional workers with whom I have spoken.
(The O.C.C. did not make Ms. Williams available and Mr. Curry declined to comment on personnel matters.)
It's quite remarkable what the agency has managed to accomplish in the few short years since the financial crisis, when one might have thought that bank regulators would rethink how they approach their jobs.
Where to start?
The JPMorgan Chase losses have given new urgency to the Volcker Rule, which bars banks from making speculative bets with their money because they are backed by the taxpayer. The O.C.C. was last heard using a crowbar to open up huge exemptions in the Volcker Rule. The rule is being finalized, and it's not clear, even under Mr. Curry's leadership, that the agency has backed off from any of its stances. Mr. Curry declined to comment on current rule-making.
Gutting Volcker was in keeping with several of the O.C.C.'s positions after passage of Dodd-Frank, the main legislation to overhaul how the government regulates the financial system. John Walsh, who was the acting comptroller until this year, was a loyal and true friend of Big Banks. He was openly criticalof the efforts to tighten regulation of the financial industry. He even fought with other bank regulators about how much additional capital the giant, systemically important banks would need to hold, supporting a paltry 1 percent, when other regulators were pushing for an additional cushion of 3 percent.
Before the crisis, the O.C.C. had often exercised its rights to "pre-emption," or cutting off state regulations before they were instituted. One could debate the merits here, but the regulator used its power to kill tough rules emerging from the states. Then Dodd-Frank sought to hinder that power. The O.C.C. openly defied it, coming out with a legal interpretation that said, well, we think we can do just as much pre-emption as ever.
That was too far even for F.O.B. (friend of banks) Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and his staff. The Treasury Department's general counsel fired off an unusual and sharp rebuke of the regulator, accusing the O.C.C. of trying to ignore the law. The agency backed down.
But wait, as with the Ginsu knife, there's more! Just last month, the Office of the Inspector General of the Treasury Department issued a reportthat criticized the O.C.C. over its failure to supervise its banks' foreclosure processes in the wake of the "robo-signing" scandal and myriad other problems with home loan modifications. As the foreclosure wave hit, the agency continued to insist that things were fine at the banks and moved sluggishly, when at all, to push for remedies.
All of this underscores the lost opportunity of the Dodd-Frank Act. The law did little to nothing to remedy the structural problems of our financial regulatory system. We got no reordering or streamlining. True, the worst bank regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, was shuttered. But in its place came multiple new agencies, offices and committees: the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Office of Financial Research and the One Committee to Rule Them All, the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
What we didn't get enough of was attitude adjustment. Good regulation isn't made merely through money, staffing and legal power. It's made through will and commitment. Regulators have to believe in their mission.
Previously, O.C.C. regulators have emphasized that they want our banking system to be "safe and sound." To that, Mr. Curry has added the word "fair." A banking system needs to serve people and businesses, so that we don't simply have, as he says, "a safe and sound national bank system just for sake of the system itself."
"I'm committed to improving the agency's reputation," Mr. Curry told me.
The question is whether the host will reject the transplant.

        
F.D.I.C. Official Picked To Lead Bank Regulator
        
JPMorgan Chief Is Expected to Play Down Trade Risks at Hearing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (64%); LAWYERS (64%) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Thomas J. Curry; Curry, Thomas J; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Legal/Regulatory; The Trade; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (94%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%) Office of the Comptroller of the Currency

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: Curry, Thomas J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



514 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Blankfein Speaks on Europe, the Financial Industry and Dimon

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: The Goldman Sachs chief also throws cold water on suggestions that it might be time for him to retire: "I am 57. What am I going to do with the other 60 years of my life?" 

 BODY:
CHICAGO -- Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, said in a speech here on Wednesday that the European crisis was at "a very critical moment." 
"If Europe fails, it won't come back for a couple of generations," he told the Economic Club of Chicago. He did not offer any predictions, saying that the only thing for certain in the situation is that "no one knows" what the outcome will be. 
Germany, he said, "holds a lot of cards" but everything it has done "is consistent with giving support but not giving support." 
He said that Germany must insist on structural reform when it gives economic support, but if taken too far it could essentially make certain nations "wards of the German state." 
Mr. Blankfein's remarks on Europe were part of a wide-ranging question and answer session at the event held at Chicago Club. Roughly 100 people attended, including well-known Chicago figures like the Chicago Board Options Exchange chief executive, William J. Brodsky, and a former Goldman board member, John H. Bryan. Greg Brown, the chief executive of Motorola Solutions, was the session's lead questioner. 
In response to questions, Mr. Blankfein threw cold water on suggestions that it might be time for him to retire: "I am 57. What am I going to do with the other 60 years of my life?"
The Goldman Sachs chief was also questioned about the future of the financial services industry, where companies are struggling to post higher returns in the face of new regulations and increased capital requirements. While this has resulted in lower returns - and stock prices - for firms like Goldman, Mr. Blankfein said there were still opportunities for outsize revenue growth. 
He pointed to China as one example, saying the firm can really excel there because it is one of just a handful of global banks operating in the country. 
Goldman is particularly bullish on China. As for the United States economy, he said it was "muddling along." The economic recovery here has been slow in part because there are still "huge uncertainties" elsewhere. 
The talk happened to fall on the same morning that JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, is testifying before Congress about how is firm lost at least $2 billion on a big trade that shouldn't have blown up. The incident set off alarm bells on Wall Street and strengthened the resolve of lawmakers arguing for legislation to curtail risk-taking by big banks. 
Mr. Blankfein is no stranger to giving Congressional testimony and has been grilled on the role his firm played in fueling the financial crisis. 
He joked he was glad not to be in Washington on Wednesday -- and added that no one at JPMorgan asked him for any tips on dealing with angry lawmakers 
"Even though we are one of the top advisory firms, I am amazed no one as come to us for advice," he said. 

        
Detail by Detail, Gupta's Lawyer Deconstructs Goldman Testimony
        
At Gupta's Insider Trial, a Star Goldman Witness and Charts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); TESTIMONY (64%) Goldman Sachs; Lloyd C. Blankfein; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Banking and Financial Institutions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (69%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BOARD OPTIONS EXCHANGE (55%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (69%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (69%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (93%); JAMES DIMON (78%); WILLIAM J BRODSKY (58%) Blankfein, Lloyd C

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



515 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan's Chief Says Clawback Efforts Are 'Likely'

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: In testimony before the Senate Banking Committee, Jamie Dimon assured lawmakers that the bank's board was investigating the trading losses. Once the investigation is complete, he said, the bank will decide whose paychecks to pursue. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- JPMorgan Chase is "likely" to try to recover compensation from executives responsible for a recent multibillion-dollar trading blowup, according to Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive.
In testimony on Wednesday before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Dimon assured lawmakers that the bank's board was investigating the trading losses at the chief investment office. Once the investigation is complete, he said, the bank will decide whose paychecks to pursue.
"When the board finishes the review, you can expect we'll take proper corrective action," the executive told a packed hearing room, shortly after a parade of protesters jeered the chief executive. "There's likely to be clawbacks."
Mr. Dimon did not name the executives facing scrutiny, but one potential target is Ina Drew, the head of the chief investment unit.
Ms. Drew, who resigned from the bank last month, earned about $14 million last year, making her among the bank's highest-paid employees.
JPMorgan, Mr. Dimon said, has broad authority to recoup pay. The bank, he said, can claw back compensation for "bad judgment" and other missteps.
"It's pretty extensive the ability to claw back," he said.
The revelation emerged from a hearing of more than two hours on Wednesday that featured Mr. Dimon's first Congressional testimony since the bank disclosed the trading loss in May. He is also scheduled to testify next week before the House Financial Services Committee, which will host the final in a series of hearings into the trading losses.
On Wednesday, Mr. Dimon received a warm welcome from Republican lawmakers, suggesting that his status as Washington's favorite banker remains intact. Some Republicans praised JPMorgan for navigating the financial crisis better than other Wall Street firms, and even sought Mr. Dimon's advice on fixing the economy.
The chief executive, faced with more challenging questions from Democrats about gaps in risk management and his own leadership, both apologized for the mishap and defiantly defended his bank and its reputation.
"We're doing what a bank is supposed to do," he said, adding that he was proud of the bank.
Mr. Dimon acknowledged, however, that his own efforts to play down the threat of the trade in April were "dead wrong."
"It changed into something I cannot publicly defend," he said.
The JPMorgan chief disclosed on Wednesday for the first time that internal risk alarms were set off in March. The red flags came weeks before he told analysts that concerns about the chief investment office were a "complete tempest in a teapot," raising new questions about Mr. Dimon's disclosures.
Despite his focus on clawing back compensation, Mr. Dimon offered a loose defense of the bank's pay packages. He dismissed concerns that outsize pay packages prompted the trading blunder, which has already cost the bank at least $3 billion.
 "Did the pay structure at the C.I.O. incentivize risky behavior?" asked Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads the banking committee.
Mr. Dimon said, "I don't believe that the compensation made the problem worse."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%) Banking and Financial Institutions; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Senate Committee on Banking; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase & Company; Senate Committee on Banking

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



516 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Prosecutors Draw 'Secret Pipeline' Pattern; Defense Asks, 'Where's the Beef?'

BYLINE: AZAM AHMED and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Closing statements were heard in the trial of Rajat K. Gupta, the highest profile individual to be ensnared by the government's insider trading crackdown. 

 BODY:
As a director of some of America's most well-known companies, Rajat K. Gupta was the ultimate insider, entrusted with confidential information about corporate earnings and major transactions.
Yet the former corporate chieftain used those secrets "to cheat the average, ordinary investor who did not have a secret pipeline to a corporate insider," a federal prosecutor, Richard Tarlowe, said on Wednesday during the government's summation at Mr. Gupta's insider trading case.
Government officials, reporters and several rows of friends and family packed the courtroom for the closing statements in the trial of Mr. Gupta, the highest profile individual to be ensnared by the government's insider trading crackdown. Prosecutors have charged Mr. Gupta, a former director at Goldman Sachs and Procter & Gamble, with leaking boardroom discussions about those two companies to Raj Rajaratnam, the former hedge fund manager convicted of insider trading last year.
The defense, which completed almost half of its three-hour summation before the lunch break, emphasized that the government's case is based on circumstantial evidence like phone records and trading logs. Unlike last year's trial of Mr. Rajaratnam, this trial had no smoking-gun wiretaps or witnesses with damning first-hand details.
"With all the power and majesty of the United States government, they found no real, hard, direct evidence," said Gary P. Naftalis, a lawyer for Mr. Gupta. "They didn't find any because it didn't happen."
"As they say in that old commercial, where's the beef in this case?" Mr. Naftalis asked the jury.
For more than two hours, Mr. Tarlowe tried to present the jury with some beef, delivering a succinct treatment of the government's case against Mr. Gupta. The tall, lanky prosecutor stacked up the governments circumstantial findings into a tidy, lucid and compelling presentation.
Mr. Tarlowe urged the jury to use its common sense and focus on the patterns that emerged at trial. He took the jury through numerous instances that Mr. Gupta participated in Goldman and P.&G. board meetings, followed by telephone calls to Mr. Rajaratnam. Following those calls, according to trading records, Mr. Rajaratnam bought or sold those companies stocks. Tip by tip, Mr. Tarlowe tried to reinforce the pattern of the alleged conspiracy between the two men, through a March 2007 trade, a September 2007 leak and a June 2008 exchange while Mr. Gupta served on the board of Goldman.
Toward the end of this closing, after presented yet another pattern of phone calls and questionable trades, Mr. Tarlowe said, "It's not another coincidence, ladies and gentlemen."
Mr. Tarlowe spent a chunk of time talking about Sept. 23, 2008, when Mr. Gupta participated in a board call to approve a $5 billion investment in Goldman Sachs by Warren E. Buffett during the depths of the financial crisis.
The board discussion ended at 3:53 p.m. Seconds after it was over, Mr. Gupta called Mr. Rajaratnam, according to phone records. A minute later, Mr. Rajaratnam ordered his traders to buy shares of Goldman Sachs before the market closed at 4 p.m.
"In the last 10 minutes of the day, there was one call to Rajaratnam, and it was from Rajat Gupta," the prosecutors said.
To bolster the phone and trading records, Mr. Tarlowe played a wiretapped call of Mr. Rajaratnam boasting of the tip with another employee of his hedge fund, the Galleon Group. During the call, Mr. Rajaratnam told the employee that he had heard something good was going to happen to Goldman. The employee suggested three times that they talk about the details when the hedge fund manager got into the office.
"You know what that means," Mr. Tarlowe said, nodding at the jurors.
Mr. Tarlowe also sought to dismiss claims by the defense that Mr. Gupta and Mr. Rajaratnam were at odds and no longer friends during some of the alleged tipping. To emphasize the point, the prosecutor flashed an e-mail in which Mr. Gupta referred to the hedge fund manager as a "good friend" and a friendly voice mail from late 2008 when he checked in to see how Mr. Rajaratnam was holding up during the financial crisis.
The defense's summation began the same way as its opening statement, with Mr. Naftalis stressing the legal concepts of presumption of innocence and the prosecution's burden of proving its case beyond a reasonable doubt.
If the government did not meet this high burden, Mr. Naftalis told the jury, "It's your duty to say not guilty, or, as they say in Scotland, not proven."
Focusing on the lack of "real, hard, direct evidence" -- a phrase used repeatedly during the defense's summation -- Mr. Naftalis said that Mr. Gupta never bought or sold a single share of Goldman and P.&G. stock. He also noted that Mr. Gupta received no direct money from Mr. Rajaratnam for his alleged tips.
"No cash changing hands here," Mr. Naftalis said. "No dishonest dimes ending up in Mr. Gupta's jacket."
Mr. Gupta had no knowledge of the insider trading conspiracy orchestrated by Mr. Rajaratnam, the defense argued.
"There was a secret world of Raj Rajaratnam that was unknown to Rajat Gupta," Mr. Naftalis said. "Our law does not make people criminals based on guilt by association."
The defense mocked the government's presentation, suggesting that the reams of phone records and trading logs, along with the multiple executives from Goldman and P.&G. that testified about the confidentiality of board meetings, were meant to give the case far more heft than it actually had.
"If you put in a lot of paper, you give the illusion that you might have something more than you actually have -- an illusion of making something out of nothing," Mr. Naftalis said. "That is a gambit that can bamboozle people into thinking something was proven when it wasn't. It is one of the oldest tricks in the book."
The defense completes its closing after lunch, followed by the government's hourlong rebuttal.

        
In Gupta Case, Motive Matters
        
P.&G. Takes Center Stage at Gupta Trial

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (93%); EVIDENCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); WITNESSES (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); WIRETAPPING (73%); LAWYERS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); CONSPIRACY (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Goldman Sachs; Procter & Gamble; Rajat K. Gupta; Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj; Insider Trading; Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Procter & Gamble Company; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Procter & Gamble Company|PG|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Galleon Group; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Procter & Gamble Company

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Procter & Gamble Company; PG; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: RAJ RAJARATNAM (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) Gupta, Rajat K.; Rajaratnam, Raj

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



517 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Former Dewey & LeBoeuf Partner Sues Firm's Management

BYLINE: EVELYN M. RUSLI


HIGHLIGHT: Henry Bunsow, a former partner at the bankrupt Dewey &#38; LeBoeuf, is suing the firm's management team and several partners, claiming they misrepresented the financials and pushed partners to make capital investments. 

 BODY:
The legal troubles continue to mount for Dewey & LeBoeuf.
On Tuesday, the fallen law firm, which filed for bankruptcy last month, was hit with a fresh lawsuit.
Henry Bunsow, a former partner of Dewey & LeBoeuf, is suing the firm's management team and several partners, including Steven H. Davis, the former chairman, and Jeffrey L. Kessler, the global litigation chair. In the complaint, Mr. Bunsow claims that they misrepresented the financials and pushed partners to make capital investments in the firm, which Dewey & LeBoeuf never intended to repay.
Mr. Bunsow, who joined Dewey & LeBoeuf in 2011, does not mince words in his complaint.
Describing the firm's structure as a "Ponzi scheme," Mr. Bunsow said the "conspiracy" stretches back to 2008, soon after the merger of Dewey Ballantine and LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae. That marriage forced the newly combined firm to extend large compensation packages to certain partners, according to the complaint, which was filed in San Francisco Superior Court.
Those multiyear obligations weighed heavily on the firm as the financial crisis unfolded and revenue declined. In the following years, Mr. Bunsow claims, the senior partners scrambled to mask the financial problems by inflating its numbers to the media and withholding information from employees.
According to Mr. Bunsow's complaint, Dewey & LeBoeuf told the publication American Lawyer that it made gross revenue of $935 million in 2011 and profit of $335 million. However, the firm's real numbers was substantially less at $781.5 million in revenue and profit of $252.5 million, the suit said.
Mr. Bunsow also claims that Dewey's partners forced him to make capital investments in the firm as a condition of his employment, while knowing that the money would never be repaid. Mr. Bunsow invested $1.8 million in the firm. Those assets, he alleges, were then disbursed to current partners to fulfill the firm's compensation obligations.
"Defendants never intended to return the departing partners' capital investments, but rather intended to selectively distribute said capital to themselves and others, thereby denying the return of capital to most of the departing partners," the complaint said. "This way, defendants used partner capital investments as a form of revenue to enrich themselves and to hide the dire condition of the firm from the public."
The extent of Dewey & LeBoeuf's financial challenges has unfolded swiftly in recent months. After a stream of departures, the storied firm filed for bankruptcy on May 28, burdened by $315 million in liabilities. The firm, which employed 2,500 at its height, follows the collapse of other once-mighty law firms, including Thelen and Heller Ehrman and Howrey.
Dewey's bankruptcy counsel was not immediately available for comment. 
Bunsow Complaint

        
Dewey's Bienenstock Discusses Law Firm's Demise
        
Dewey & LeBoeuf Files for Bankruptcy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); LITIGATION (91%); BUSINESS TORTS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MERGERS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); PONZI SCHEMES (54%) Dewey & LeBoeuf; Jeffrey L. Kessler; Steven H. Davis; Bankruptcies; Suits and Litigation; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: DEWEY & LEBOEUF LLP (94%); HELLER EHRMAN LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Dewey & LeBoeuf

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



518 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: 'Proud' JPMorgan Chief Apologizes

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Despite his firm's multibillion-dollar trading loss, Jamie Dimon navigated the Senate Banking hearing on Wednesday with relative ease, deflecting tough questions and fielding softball inquiries. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - Jamie Dimon, the outspoken chief executive of JPMorgan Chase under scrutiny for a multibillion-dollar trading loss at his firm, apologized for the mishap on Wednesday even as he mounted a fierce defense of his bank.
Testifying at a much-anticipated hearing before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Dimon said that he was "proud" of the bank, highlighting the firm's "fortress" balance sheet and its performance during the financial crisis.
"We're doing what a bank is supposed to do," he told a panel of lawmakers, few of whom posed combative questions during the roughly two-hour hearing.
The hearing on Wednesday was the latest chapter of the trading debacle, which has stained the bank's reputation and prompted wide-ranging inquiries from regulators and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The concerns have centered on the bank's chief investment office, which placed a big bet tied to credit derivatives that ultimately soured. 
Despite the controversy plaguing the bank, Mr. Dimon on Wednesday seemed to solidify his status as Washington's favorite banker. Clad in a dark suit and striped tie, he navigated the hearing with relative ease, deflecting tough questions and fielding softball inquiries.
He received a particularly warm welcome from Republican senators, who praised JPMorgan and allowed the chief executive to offer criticisms of forthcoming financial rules. Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, asked Mr. Dimon about the Volcker Rule, an element of the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul meant to clamp down on banks' trading for their own account. Mr. Vitter asked if there was a version of the Volcker Rule that "makes sense." Mr. Dimon, who is not a big fan of the extensive regulation, responded, "I thought it was unnecessary when it was added on top of other stuff."
Some lawmakers used their five-minute question periods to compliment Mr. Dimon and ask his advice on fixing the economy. At one point, Senator Jim DeMint, Republican of South Carolina, said, "I think a lot of us are frustrated bank managers and want to manage your business for you," before praising JPMorgan for being in better financial shape than the country as a whole.
The roughest greetings for Mr. Dimon came not from legislators but from a chorus of protesters in the chamber, who confronted the chief executive about JPMorgan's foreclosure policies while having received taxpayer bailout money. The outburst, led by one man who yelled that Mr. Dimon was a "crook," was quickly quelled. 
The line of questioning speaks to Mr. Dimon's still considerable sway among lawmakers.
In recent years, Mr. Dimon has been a frequent visitor to Washington, as he aims to influence the discussion, particularly around financial regulation. JPMorgan spent more than $7.41 million on lobbying in 2010, which topped the industry, according to the research firm OpenSecrets.org.
Several bank lobbyists also have close ties to the committee. Kate Childress, a lobbyist who joined the bank in 2008, was previously an aide to Charles E. Schumer, the Democratic senator from New York and a member of the banking committee. Steven Patterson, also a JPMorgan lobbyist, used to be a staff director for economic policy for the Senate Banking Committee. 
Mr. Dimon "has always been well regarded and had considerable clout," said Tom Block, a former head of government relations at JPMorgan who has prepped senior executives in the past for Congressional hearings.
On Wednesday, Mr. Dimon seemed to placate some lawmakers instantly with the disclosure that the bank would "likely" seek to recover compensation from executives responsible for the trading loss. Once the bank's board completes an investigation into what went wrong in the chief investment office, he said, the bank will decide whose paychecks to pursue.
"When the board finishes the review, you can expect we'll take proper corrective action," Mr. Dimon said. 
While he did not specify executives who could face clawbacks, one potential person is Ina R. Drew, the former head of the chief investment unit. Ms. Drew, who resigned from the bank last month, earned about $14 million last year, making her among the bank's highest paid employees.
JPMorgan, Mr. Dimon said, has broad authority to recoup pay. The bank, he said, can claw back compensation for "bad judgment" and other missteps. He described the firm's ability to reclaim such money as "pretty extensive."
He also disclosed for the first time that the positions, which have since caused at least $3 billion in losses, set off the bank's own internal risk alarms in March, weeks before Mr. Dimon publicly played down the threat on a conference call with analysts. The revelation raises new questions about Mr. Dimon's now-infamous statements on the April 13 conference call, when he said that concerns about the trades were a "complete tempest in a teapot."
"Why were you willing to be so definitive?" asked Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads the banking committee. 
Mr. Dimon, striking a brief note of contrition, conceded, "It was dead wrong." 
In his testimony, Mr. Dimon offered support for some elements of Dodd-Frank, saying that the wind-down process for failed firms should be called "bankruptcy for big dumb banks." He added that the names of fallen institutions "should be buried in disgrace," calling it "Old Testament justice."
But the banking chief faced off with some Democratic lawmakers, who seized upon the trading losses to bolster calls for tougher regulation of Wall Street. 
One of the sorest points for Mr. Dimon centered on the Volcker Rule. JPMorgan has said that the trades in question were initially meant to serve as a hedge against risk, rather than a source of profit that would arguably be banned by new regulations.
Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, set off a testy exchange with the banking executive, beginning by asking whether the hedge changed into "Russian roulette." He sought to use Mr. Dimon's previous statements against him, saying, "Your bank has been lobbying against the very guarantees that will protect the taxpayer." 
Mr. Dimon responded that JPMorgan had supported some elements of the new regulations, including higher capital reserve requirements.
He challenged another Democratic lawmaker, Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, who argued that JPMorgan was saved by the government's bailout programs in 2008. Mr. Dimon has long argued that his firm took taxpayer money only reluctantly and that the bank would have survived without it.
"I think you are misinformed," Mr. Dimon told Mr. Merkley. "You're factually wrong." 
The senator responded, "Let's agree to disagree."

        
JPMorgan Chief Is Expected to Play Down Trade Risks at Hearing
        
JPMorgan's Chief to Testify Twice in June

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SOFTBALL (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); LOBBYING (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); FORECLOSURE (72%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (64%) Charles Schumer; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; Senate Banking Committee; Tim Johnson; DeMint, Jim; Dimon, James; Drew, Ina R; Johnson, Timothy Peter (1946- ); Menendez, Robert; Merkley, Jeff; Schumer, Charles E; Vitter, David; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Bureau of Investigation; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Senate Committee on Banking; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (91%) Federal Bureau of Investigation; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Senate Committee on Banking

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%) JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (93%); JIM DEMINT (90%); DAVID VITTER (89%); CHARLES SCHUMER (87%); TIM JOHNSON (87%); JEFF MERKLEY (71%); BOB MENENDEZ (71%) DeMint, Jim; Dimon, James; Drew, Ina R; Johnson, Timothy Peter (1946- ); Menendez, Robert; Merkley, Jeff; Schumer, Charles E; Vitter, David

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



519 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: With Dimon's Halo Atilt, Blankfein Looks More Like a Darling

BYLINE: SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: Lloyd Blankfein showed Goldman's softer side with self-deprecating humor. 

 BODY:
CHICAGO - There may be an opening for least-hated banker in America, and Lloyd C. Blankfein seems interested in applying.
 On Wednesday, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase and long Wall Street's fair-haired boy, appeared before a Congressional panel to try to explain how his bank lost at least $3 billion on a trade he has admitted never should have been placed.
 At the same time, hundreds of miles away, Mr. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, was speaking to a much friendlier crowd at the Economic Club of Chicago. That's a bit of a turnaround from several years ago, when Mr. Blankfein, who had become the whipping boy for angry lawmakers in the wake of the financial crisis, rarely made such appearances while Mr. Dimon enjoyed public favor as the head of a bank that had emerged from the crisis relatively unscathed.
Mr. Blankfein's speaking engagement came just a day after he appeared on the TV talk show "Morning Joe" with Warren E. Buffett. The two were together to talk up Goldman's 10,000 Small Businesses program, which offers business education, mentoring and access to capital.
 A relaxed Mr. Blankfein was beaming as he extolled the virtues of the program on a sunny terrace overlooking the Chicago River. "Lloyd, thank you so much for what you guys have done," the show co-host, Joe Scarborough, gushed as the segment ended.
 The recent public emergence of Mr. Blankfein has taken many Wall Street insiders by surprise - and raised questions about whether the 57-year-old executive, who just celebrated his sixth year at the helm of the company, is now managing his image with an eye to his legacy.
 Mark Arena, the former head of communications at UBS Americas, gave Goldman high marks for moving to improve its public profile, which has included advertising in Politico's Morning Money newsletter and opening a Twitter account for corporate news. But he added that Mr. Blankfein, who is still very much associated with the financial crisis, might not be the perfect frontman.
"Tired faces equal tired news," said Mr. Arena, now the founding partner of the PR Verdict, a Web site and newsletter. "His card is marked, perhaps unfairly, but it is marked."
 Instead, Goldman and other companies trying to recover from the financial crisis may be better served by tapping several executives to speak on behalf of the company, dispersing the spotlight, he said.
"Part of the problem with financial services companies is they did what was in vogue years ago and they made the C.E.O. a star. There are pluses and minuses, and big minuses when the organization gets into trouble," he said. 
 Mr. Blankfein joked on Wednesday that a contest for least-hated banker was a race to the bottom and dismissed suggestions he was not long for his job. "I am 57," he said, laughing. "What am I going to do with the other 60 years of my life?" 
He added that most of his predecessors had either gone into government or died on the job. "I'd say the government probably isn't going to call me. So that leaves staying forever and dying at my desk."
 In some ways Mr. Blankfein is a great pitchman. He is a salesman by trade; he got his start at Goldman selling gold. And on Wednesday he said the banter that came along with being in the public eye "suits him." "I am not shy," he said with a laugh. 
The executive is also known for his sharp intellect and self-deprecating wit, something that typically plays wells with audiences. He drew laughs on Wednesday recalling the day in 2006 when Henry M. Paulson Jr. called to tell Mr. Blankfein that he was leaving Goldman to become Treasury secretary. "Being Hank. there wasn't a lot of conversation about me," he said. "I think he forgot my name." 
 But at times he can be his own worst enemy. Mr. Blankfein in 2009 told The Times of London in an interview that he was doing "God's work." The company later said it was merely a joke, but the comment drew sharp criticism. 
 So far Mr. Blankfein's re-entry into the public eye has been gaffe-free. At the company's annual shareholder meeting in May, a nun from the Sisters of Charity of New York encouraged Goldman to give more disclosure on its structured products. Mr. Blankfein praised the organization's work on this issue, and then jokingly suggested that Goldman should hire her. The moment was rife with potential pitfalls. 
 "I don't think we can outbid your current boss," he replied, a subtle reference to his "God's work" comment. He then was careful to note that he did not use her boss's name in his response.

        
'Twas the Week After Layoffs
        
Solid Results at 2 Banks Bode Well for the Industry

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (52%) Goldman Sachs; Jamie Dimon; JPMorgan Chase &; Lloyd Blankfein; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Banking and Financial Institutions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (58%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (96%); JAMES DIMON (91%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%) Blankfein, Lloyd C

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%) ILLINOIS, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



520 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1514 words

HEADLINE: When Enough Is Enough

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE


HIGHLIGHT: Is there something going on beneath the surface in a recent Supreme Court ruling involving a sewer assessment in a suburb of Indianapolis? 

 BODY:
 What to do while waiting for the health care decision. . . . Perusing one of the tiny handful of decisions the Supreme Court has issued in the past couple of weeks, an old, never-to-be-forgotten one came to mind: Bush v. Gore. Not that the new decision, Armour v. City of Indianapolis, had anything to do with presidential politics. Quite the opposite: its subject was something that happened at the most local level of government, a sewer improvement assessment in a subdivision of Indianapolis.
 The city gave the 180 property owners affected a choice of how to pay the $9,278 assessment: in a lump sum, or over time with interest. Most chose to pay over 10, 20 or 30 years. Three dozen paid up front, and the city then played them for suckers, announcing a year later that it was changing the way it financed sewer improvements and would issue bonds to cover most of the cost. It would forgive the indebtedness of the installment-payers. But the city refused to give the full-payers any of the refund they demanded.
 The full-payers then did what any red-blooded American would do in such a galling circumstance: sue. Their theory was that the city had violated their constitutional right to equal protection. (Does that bring back warm memories of Bush v. Gore? Wait, there's more.) When the Indiana Supreme Court ruled against the unhappy homeowners, the homeowners appealed to the United States Supreme Court, where they met the same fate.
Writing for the 6-to-3 majority, Justice Stephen G. Breyer explained that all that was at stake was an economic regulation, to which the court gives the lowest level of scrutiny. "As long as the city's distinction has a rational basis, that distinction does not violate the Equal Protection Clause," Justice Breyer said. 
 Indianapolis had defended its action on the ground of administrative convenience. Processing refunds would have been a hassle, Indianapolis had said, arguing further that refunds for this group of homeowners would have encouraged property owners similarly affected by the policy change throughout the city to demand refunds, too.
 And that was good enough, Justice Breyer said: "The Constitution does not require the city to draw the perfect line nor even to draw a line superior to some other line it might have drawn. It requires only that the line actually drawn be a rational line."
 Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote a spirited dissenting opinion that Justices Antonin Scalia and Samuel A. Alito Jr. also signed. No, the chief justice said, the city's reason was not good enough even to meet the minimal standard of mere rationality. Alluding to the language of the 14th Amendment, he objected: "The Equal Protection Clause does not provide that no state shall 'deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, unless it's too much of a bother.' " And he added: "I think the city workers are up to the task."
 Here's the thing: In Bush v. Gore, the five most conservative justices, no great fans of an expansive reading of the Equal Protection Clause, surprised the world in 2000 by declaring that the Florida Supreme Court's recount order violated equal protection in failing to assure uniform vote-counting standards across the state. The five were then so abashed at having invoked the Equal Protection Clause to stop the recount, and so afraid of inadvertently unleashing a new equal protection revolution, that they proclaimed that their opinion was never to be cited in any future case.
 The Indianapolis case is the first decision since then, as far as I can recall, to repeat the equal protection flip, the conservatives seeing an equal protection foul where the others find none. I'm not counting cases about affirmative action and other racially conscious government policies, part of a bigger project where conservatives long ago flipped the traditional equal protection paradigm to view whites as the victims of government-sponsored discrimination. I mean novel claims of equal protection outside of race, equal protection as a vehicle for judicial intervention in policy choices made by other branches of government.
 Readers of this column know that I like to put obscure or overlooked Supreme Court decisions under a microscope to see what they might tell us about what's really going on at the court. In its majority and dissenting opinions, the Indianapolis case has all the appearance of a proxy war that must be about some bigger issue than these homeowners' particular plight. The case was argued back on Feb. 20 and the decision was not issued until June 4. That's a long time to produce a 13-page majority opinion and six-page dissent. The facts were clear and the legal issue straightforward. Something else was going on.
 Chief Justice Roberts rarely casts a dissenting vote: this was only his fourth out of 52 decisions issued so far this term, the fewest dissenting votes of any member of the court. And when he does vote in dissent, he doesn't usually assign himself to write the dissenting opinion. This was only his second one this term, but I actually discount the other one, a dissenting opinion in a case with federalism overtones, Douglas v. Independent Living Center. In that case, I believe, the chief justice started out writing a majority opinion, but Justice Breyer managed to snatch the majority out from under him and the chief published his intended majority opinion as a dissent.
 I should note that this is just my supposition, based on how the opinions in that case were structured. But whether the chief justice's dissent in the latest case is counted as his first or second, the question remains: why did he care so much?
 The libertarian scholar Richard Epstein, in an essay he published the other day in a journal of the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, offers an interesting perspective on the higher stakes in this little case. The court missed an opportunity, Professor Epstein writes in "Intellectual Laziness on the Supreme Court," to harness the Constitution as a bulwark against government "shenanigans" and "business and fiscal madness." Not only should the court have ruled for the homeowners, he argues, but it should have used the case to scrap the highly deferential "rational basis" as a standard of review for economic regulation.
 The only problem, as Professor Epstein acknowledges, is that there is scant evidence that Chief Justice Roberts is on board with the grand libertarian project of turning back the clock to the pre-New Deal era, when the Supreme Court invoked notions of constitutional due process to erect barriers against government regulation of the economy. (The current court's appetite for using the First Amendment as a deregulatory tool is another matter, a big subject for another day.) The chief justice's dissenting opinion, Professor Epstein writes, while "worthy" and "sensitive," failed to "approach the case as a matter of first principle." 
But what if the majority and the dissent, while skirting a battle over "first principles," were nonetheless shadowboxing in this case over something highly significant? Something, for instance, like government regulation of the market for health care? At the end of his dissenting opinion, Chief Justice Roberts conceded that the justices in the majority had much of the weight of modern history on their side. "Our precedents do not ask for much from government in this area," he said, adding that "we give great leeway to taxing authorities in this area, for good and sufficient reasons." Then comes this line: "But every generation or so a case comes along when this court needs to say enough is enough, if the Equal Protection Clause is to retain any force in this context."
 Enough is enough? In the context of the Commerce Clause, of course, that's the basic argument of the plaintiffs in the health care case. But try to import the chief justice's "enough is enough" from the one context to the other, to predict the imminent outcome of that case, and the microscope's lens becomes blurry. For one thing, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy is part of Justice Breyer's majority in the Indianapolis case. It's hard to imagine that the court could muster the votes to strike down the Affordable Care Act without Justice Kennedy on board. 
 To further confuse matters, Justice Clarence Thomas also signed Justice Breyer's opinion, leaving his usual ideological allies to fend for themselves. Ordinarily, Justice Thomas, who rejects many precepts of modern constitutional law, is the most libertarian of the justices. What to make of his seemingly contrary vote in this case? Chances are this was a case in which his self-described "originalism" trumped his libertarian leanings; Justice Thomas may have concluded that whatever the framers of the 14th Amendment thought they were doing, protecting homeowners from unfairly apportioned tax burdens was not on the list. 
No conclusions here. Just another mystery as we wait for the big one. 

        
A Second Chance for Joshua
        
The Fire Next Term
        
In Medicine, Falling for Fake Innovation
        
Goodbye to Gitmo
        
The Lower Floor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (94%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); APPEALS (89%); VERDICTS (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (75%); SUBURBS (75%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (73%); POLITICS (71%) 14th Amendment; Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr.; indianapolis; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act; Supreme Court; Roberts, John G Jr; Constitution (US); Decisions and Verdicts; Fourteenth Amendment (US Constitution); Indianapolis (Ind); Linda Greenhouse

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (85%); INDIANA SUPREME COURT (54%) Supreme Court

PERSON: JOHN ROBERTS (89%); STEPHEN BREYER (78%); ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SAMUEL ALITO (58%) Roberts, John G Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (94%) INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Indianapolis (Ind)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



521 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: Big Government

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Does the federal government have a duty to use its economic power in times of hardship to help states keep teachers on the job? 

 BODY:
As I wrote yesterday on this blog, and as the board wrote on the editorial page today, President Obama and Mitt Romney differ on a very basic question: Does the federal government have a duty to use its economic power in times of deep economic hardship to help states and localities keep teachers, firefighters and policemen on the job?
Mr. Obama thinks it does. Mr. Romney thinks it does not. In fact, Mr. Romney summed up the divide rather well last week, when he said "[The president] wants another stimulus, he wants to hire more government workers. He says we need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers. Did he not get the message of Wisconsin? The American people did. It's time for us to cut back on government and help the American people."

The Obama campaign is pressing this issue hard, as it should, with a new ad featuring a policeman, firefighter and a teacher pleading for their jobs.
"Mr. Romney wants to cut taxes for people like himself by cutting jobs like mine," says Mike, the firefighter.
"Jobs that support our families, strengthen our communities and grow our economy," says the police officer, De Mar.
Martha, an AP physics teacher, sums it up: "You know what we really need less of? Romney economics."
Mr. Romney is running against "big government" and uses as a prime example the stimulus plan that Mr. Obama managed to get through Congress in 2009. The stimulus was, indeed, a big government measure-big government at its best, doing what individuals and even states cannot do for themselves. Though not as large as it should have been, the stimulus still helped create jobs and stave off depression.
Cutting back on government may assist the wealthiest Americans-who are no longer suffering from the recession, and don't need assistance-at least in the short term. But by Mr. Romney's own admission, cuts will hurt teachers, firefighters and police officers, and all the people who depend on them. That's what this election is about: Do we want politicians to help the 1% prosper, or help everyone else scratch their way back to something resembling stability?

        
We Don't Need No Teachers!
        
Shooting at Laws in Ads (Literally)
        
The Most Expensive Campaign Ever
        
'Washington Doesn't Get Us'
        
We're Fox News and We Approved This Message

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (71%); TAX LAW (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%) government employees; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Recession and Depression

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (62%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



522 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Uncertainty and Health Insurance Reform

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: Republicans love to kvetch about "uncertainty," except when they're causing it. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney said on the campaign trail in Florida yesterday that President Obama's health care reform law is hurting small businesses and that Mr. Obama is oblivious to the problem. "You have to scratch your head about that," Mr. Romney said.
Well, gosh, yes you do. Or at least you would if it were true.
As Brad DeLong reported on his blog, Mr. Romney's comment was "based on a local interview Obama gave in Iowa, in which the president was told by a reporter that a local company had closed and was moving jobs to Wisconsin because of Obamacare." Mr. Obama was incredulous, and that, I suppose, was the source of Mr. Romney's head scratching.

It turns out, however, that the company, Nemschoff Chairs, which makes furniture for waiting rooms, did not close because of health care reform. "We never said health care reform is the reason we're closing and consolidating that operation," Mark Schurman, a spokesman for Nemschoff's parent company told The Washington Post's Greg Sargent. "The issue is not the administration's proposed reform. The issue is there is no certainty as to what reform is going to look like."
Mr. Schurman cited the pending decision from the Supreme Court regarding the reform act's constitutionality. "Were there no ongoing debate there would be no uncertainty," he said.
Mr. Schurman raises an important point - other than Mr. Romney's habit of neglecting the truth.
Republicans love to kvetch about "uncertainty" - employers' uncertainty about the economy, for instance. On his blog recently, Paul Krugman took apart a research paper purportedly showing that "policy uncertainty" is restraining the economy. And House Speaker John Boehner has claimed that uncertainty over the future of the Bush tax cuts is hurting business.
About the only "uncertainty" they don't talk about is the status of health care reform.
That's because this particular uncertainty was entirely manufactured by Republicans - who began plotting to undo the Affordable Care Act by re-legislating it in the courts before the ink was dry on Mr. Obama's signature.

        
Opinion Report: Serial Bailouts
        
Shooting at Laws in Ads (Literally)
        
'Washington Doesn't Get Us'
        
Healthcare: What Might Have Been
        
Opinion Report: Crack and Cocaine

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE REFORM (93%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (76%); INSURANCE (74%); FURNITURE MFG (73%); TAX LAW (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); CLOSINGS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); COCAINE (60%) health care reform; uncertainty; Romney, Mitt; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



523 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Suit Filed to Stop FreshDirect Plan for a South Bronx Complex

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Opponents argue that the project would harm the neighborhood's quality of life and that the city violated state rules by not giving it an adequate environmental review. 

 BODY:
11:20 p.m. | Updated When it was announced in February that the online grocery giant FreshDirect would move from Queens to a new 500,000-square-foot facility in the South Bronx, city and state officials hailed the deal as a victory that kept FreshDirect from decamping to New Jersey.
Some in the Bronx, however, questioned whether the arrangement, which includes more than $120 million in city tax exemptions, state tax credits and cash incentives, would be good for an area that is already burdened by noise, pollution and some of the highest asthma rates in the country.
On Wednesday, several individuals and community groups sued to halt the project, arguing that it would harm the quality of life in the South Bronx and that the city failed to comply with state regulations by approving the deal without an adequate environmental review. 
The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in the Bronx, names several defendants, including the New York City Industrial Development Agency, FreshDirect and Harlem River Yard Ventures, which leases the land where the headquarters are planned from the state.
At the heart of the lawsuit is the contention that the city did not pay enough attention to the likely environmental effect of a grocery facility that is expected to involve nearly 2,000 truck trips per day.
While state law requires environmental impact statements to be compiled before some large developments can proceed, the city was able to avoid such a study in February when the Industrial Development Agency issued what is known as a negative declaration, in effect saying there was no possibility that a planned project would have a significant negative effect on the area.
But lawyers from New York Lawyers for the Public Interest said in a 58-page petition that the assessment by the agency "relied heavily upon the conclusions, studies and analyses" contained in a report prepared in 1993 that "is so outdated that the neighborhood it evaluated no longer exists."
A spokesman for the company said, "FreshDirect has 225 trucks and does not come close to making 2,000 trips per day." He also cited a page on the FreshDirect Web site that contained a statement about a letter that the FreshDirect chief executive, Jason Ackerman, sent to the lawyers who filed the lawsuit.
The statement read in part: "Contrary to the assertions made in the recent lawsuit, a thorough environmental impact review commissioned by FreshDirect was already conducted. It showed the new facility will generate far fewer truck trips and result in less traffic when compared to the 1993 approved uses of the Harlem River Yard."
Patrick Muncie, a spokesman for the New York City Economic Development Corporation, said the FreshDirect deal would lead to jobs and "hundreds of millions of dollars in economic activity."
But the suit seeks to annul the negative declaration by the Industrial Development Agency, determine that the issuance of the declaration was "a violation of law, arbitrary and capricious" and force the agency to prepare a new or supplemental environmental impact statement.
An earlier version of this post erroneously stated that Harlem River Yard Ventures owns the land on which FreshDirect plans to build its Bronx headquarters. Harlem River Yard Ventures leases the land from the state.

        
Where Produce Is Scarce, Supermarkets Will Grow
        
Delivering More Groceries, and Fewer Boxes
        
FreshDirect Expands Brooklyn Delivery Service
        
Pressure Mounts as FreshDirect Turmoil Rises; Union Vote Fails
        
Union Protests 'Atmosphere of Fear' at FreshDirect

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); LAWYERS (88%); INTERNET RETAILING (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (75%); PETITIONS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (71%); NOISE POLLUTION (70%); ASTHMA (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%) FreshDirect; Industrial Development Agency; Suits and Litigation; New York Lawyers for the Public Interest; South Bronx (NYC); Bronx; Business; Environment; Food and Drink

COMPANY: FRESHDIRECT LLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FreshDirect; Industrial Development Agency; New York Lawyers for the Public Interest

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) South Bronx (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



524 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 307 words

HEADLINE: Budget Office Director: Health Law Hasn't Hit Economy

BYLINE: REBECCA BERG


HIGHLIGHT: Disputing a Republican meme, the head of the Congressional Budget Office says that the new health care law isn't hurting the economy. 

 BODY:
As a Supreme Court ruling on the health care law nears, theories abound as to what the economic effects of the court's decision will be. On Wednesday, Douglas W. Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office, wasn't eager to enter that fray - but he disputed the view pushed mostly by Republicans that the health care law has, to this point, hurt employment.
Speaking to reporters at a Christian Science Monitor breakfast on Wednesday, Mr. Elmendorf said, "We don't think that the health care law is having a significant impact on the economy today."
Based on his office's estimates, the law in its current form would potentially affect the employment of only a sliver of the labor force, perhaps just 0.5 percent of workers, he said. Under the law, Mr. Elmendorf said, most job loss would be incurred by people exiting their jobs voluntarily because they would be able to obtain health insurance outside of work.
 Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential contender, has made a refrain of criticizing the health care law as detrimental to job growth; on Tuesday, he used a campaign stop in Orlando to repeat that theme.
"He said he didn't understand that Obamacare was hurting small business," Mr. Romney said yesterday, referring to the president. "You have to scratch your head about that."
But some Republicans might be moving away from criticizing the health care law as "job-killing": Politico reports that House Speaker John A. Boehner recently urged his colleagues to instead attack the law for creating additional costs for businesses - at least, pending the Supreme Court's expected ruling on the law this month.

        
Saturday Word: Nominating From the Heart
        
Conservatives Attack Romney's Choice to Lead Transition
        
Romney's Unemployment Rate Dilemma
        
A Claim About Jobs Doesn't Tell Full Story
        
Divining the Supreme Court Health Care Arguments

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (96%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (93%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); RELIGION (56%) health care reform; Unemployment; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



525 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 497 words

HEADLINE: Romney Calls Obama Policies the Most Anti-Business in Recent History

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney told a group of business leaders in Washington that the Obama administration had pursued the "most anti-investment, anti-business, anti-jobs series of policies in modern American history" and was responsible for the tepid pace of the recovery. 

 BODY:
On the eve of a major economic speech by President Obama, Mitt Romney told a group of business leaders in Washington on Wednesday that the Obama administration had pursued the "most anti-investment, anti-business, anti-jobs series of policies in modern American history" and was responsible for the tepid pace of the recovery.
Mr. Romney predicted that Mr. Obama would "change course" during a speech scheduled for Thursday in Ohio and acknowledge that the economy "isn't going so well."
As he has for the past six days, Mr. Romney mocked the president for declaring on Friday that the "private sector is doing fine." Mr. Romney speculated that Mr. Obama had rethought that remark because of the "incredulity that came screaming back from the American people" in the days since.
Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama will both deliver speeches in Ohio on Thursday, taking their dueling messages about the troubled state of the nation's economy to a swing state.
Mr. Romney poked fun at the president's reputation for lofty speechmaking, telling a crowd of chief executives here that "I happen to know that if President Obama speaks as he normally will tomorrow, his rhetoric will be soaring and eloquent. But I'd suggest you look at the record more than the words."
"Words are cheap," Mr. Romney said. "The record is that we have 23 million Americans that are out of work or stopped looking for work or underemployed. That is a compelling and a sad statistic. These are real people."
Lis Smith, a spokeswoman for the president's re-election campaign, called Mr. Romney's claims "dishonest."
"Contrary to Romney's rhetoric, the president took our nation from losing 750,000 jobs a month to adding 4.3 million private-sector jobs over the last 27 months," Ms. Smith said.
Mr. Romney, a former chief executive himself, seemed to be in his element at the Newseum, where he spoke to members of the Business Roundtable, including top executives from Macy's, Xerox and Boeing. He greeted members by name, and he elicited knowing laughs from the audience when he playfully pleaded with the executives to repatriate overseas profits back to the United States.
"If you want to bring your money home, ple-e-e-ease bring it home," he said. "All right. Bring that trillion-plus dollars - bri-i-ing it here. Invest in new plants and equipment and hire people."
Mr. Romney told the executives that government must stop treating corporations as opponents, through regulation and tax policy. "How do we make America the best place for enterprise?" he said. "Government has to be the partner, the friend, the ally, the supporter of enterprise, not the enemy. Too often you find yourself facing a government that looks at you like you're the bad guys, and if you're hiring people and employing people and paying taxes, you're the good guys."
After he spoke, Mr. Romney held a question-and-answer session with the executives at the Newseum, a museum dedicated to the news media. Reporters were not allowed to attend the session.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); HISTORY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); TAX LAW (60%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Elections

COMPANY: BOEING CO (52%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (52%); BAB (BRU) (52%); BA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



526 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 13, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: Subtext: Germany Threatens Europe, Again

BYLINE: HARVEY MORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: With nerves -- and bank accounts -- on edge over the future of the euro and whether leaders will act to reinforce the eurozone, old demons are finding new life. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Stubborn, domineering, downright unfriendly. All the old stereotypes about the Germans are rising to the surface as frustration grows over their refusal to sign what they regard as a blank check to their less disciplined European neighbors.
It seems only fair to add resilient to the list. It is hard not to admire Chancellor Angela Merkel's stolid refusal to adopt policies she opposes in the face of growing pressure from partners and allies to act to salvage the euro zone. 
As she said in her latest pronouncement on European policy on Tuesday: "We cannot become involved in things which will - I am firmly convinced - lead to an even bigger disaster than we have today."
But will the Germans live to regret what some regard as their intransigence in the face of a deepening crisis, or will their insistence on fiscal probity turn out to be the key element in an eventual recovery? Commentators and experts are divided.
"Start the engines, Angela," The Economist implores in its current edition, stating in an editorial: "even if her strategy has paid some dividends, its cost has been ruinous and it has run its course."
In another forthright assault on German policy, Niall Ferguson, the British historian, and Nouriel Roubini, the American economist, accuse the Germans of failing to learn the lessons of history.
In an article published in Germany's Der Spiegel and the Financial Times, they lament the failure of the German public to grasp that "the dire state of affairs in Europe today is inviting a repeat of precisely the crisis of the mid-20th century that European integration was designed to avoid."
"We find it extraordinary that it should be Germany, of all countries, that is failing to learn from history," they wrote, referring to a 1930s banking crisis that led to the breakdown of democracy in Europe and the rise of the Nazis.
In the face of such onslaughts, it is easy to understand the German reaction described by Charles Grant in an IHT Global Opinion article: "When 'Anglo-Saxon' commentators criticize Germany for imposing excessive austerity, the response can veer toward paranoia."
Others have come to Germany's defense, even if that sometimes includes a nod in the direction of Germans' stereotypical tendency towards authoritarianism. Urging critics not to isolate Germany, Gideon Rachman wrote in the Financial Times that the demands being made on Germany might make economic sense. However, "isolating and berating Berlin, while trying to force the country to underwrite the finances of the whole of the eurozone, is a politically dangerous course."
"Of course, nobody questions modern Germany's democratic credentials. Only in the wilder fringes of the Greek press has Chancellor Angela Merkel been compared to Adolf Hitler. But the picture that emerges from the world's press is of a stubborn Germany, whose actions threaten the world," Mr. Rachman writes.
"The rise of far-right nationalists in Greece or the Netherlands is deeply regrettable," he concludes. "The rise of the far right in Germany would be a disaster."
Hans-Werner Sinn, head of economics at Munich University, argues that it is unfair to put the burden on Germany to bear the weight of the euro crisis. In an IHT Global Opinion article he writes, "Should the euro fail, Germany would lose over $1.35 trillion, more than 40 percent of its G.D.P. Has the United States ever incurred a similar risk for helping other countries?"
He said it was wrong to argue that Germany, having benefited from the post-war Marshall Plan, now owed it to Europe to undertake a similar rescue.
Almost seven decades on, it seems there is no getting away from the World War II allusions.
Perhaps it is worth recalling the title - if not the deeply anti-German sentiments- of Noel Coward's wartime song: "Don't let's be beastly to the Germans."

        
The Euro Is Saved - for Now
        
To Fix Europe's Economy, Understand One Size Does Not Fit All
        
A Primer on Greece's Election: Niki Kitsantonis Answers Readers' Questions
        
Ask About the Greek Elections
        
The Future of the Euro: Jack Ewing Answers Readers' Questions

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (88%); BANK FAILURES (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); HISTORY (65%) Angela Merkel; Euro; European sovereign debt crisis; Merkel, Angela; Rachman, Gideon; Roubini, Nouriel; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Germany; View From Europe; E Crisis

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (67%)

PERSON: ANGELA MERKEL (90%); NOURIEL ROUBINI (71%) Merkel, Angela; Rachman, Gideon; Roubini, Nouriel

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Germany

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2012



527 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Big Plans for Open, but Not for a Roof

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The United States Tennis Association will spend an estimated $500 million through the coming decade to build a new Louis Armstrong Stadium, a new grandstand on unused land at the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center, and a double-deck viewing area for fans to watch players practice during the United States Open.
But the plans do not include a roof over Arthur Ashe Stadium or the new Armstrong facility. 
Rain delays have caused the United States Open men's final to be played on a Monday for the past four years, increasing calls for the Open to join the other three Grand Slam events in adding a roof on at least one showcase court. Melbourne Park, site of the Australian Open, has retractable roofs on two courts and plans for a third; Centre Court at Wimbledon gained its retractable roof in 2009; and a new center court with a retractable roof is expected to open at Roland Garros in 2017.
U.S.T.A. officials said that Arthur Ashe Stadium, which was built on a swamp-like ash dump, could not physically absorb the weight of a roof that would cover its expanse.
''It's five times larger than the span that covers Wimbledon,'' said Gordon Smith, the U.S.T.A.'s chief operating officer.
Despite years of consultations with engineers, the organization has not found the lightweight, cost-effective technology that is needed. One rejected idea for a roof included resting one on columns surrounding the stadium.
''This issue has been given significant attention,'' Smith said. ''It's very important long term to us.''
The new Armstrong Stadium will be able to support a roof, but it will not get one until Ashe does.
''The tournament does not function with a single roof being anywhere but the main stadium,'' said Daniel Zausner, managing director of the tennis center. If rain halted a match at Ashe, he said: ''You can't tell 23,700 people to move to Louis, which will have 15,000 seats. That leaves 8,000-plus without a seat.''
The U.S.T.A.'s plans for the tennis center are expected to be announced by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg on Thursday morning before the Queens Chamber of Commerce. Public hearings are expected to start in July.
A spokesman for Queens Borough President Helen Marshall said she has been briefed on the plans, but would not speak until after Bloomberg's announcement. The tennis association hopes to get the required governmental approvals in time to start construction in the fall of 2013.
Smith said the renovations were required to sustain the tennis center's prominence in light of changes at Wimbledon and the plans to modernize Roland Garros; competition for luxury suites from new and upgraded stadiums and arenas in the New York area; and the need to improve pedestrian movement around the tennis center.
''We've got to maintain our presence as a sporting event, as a great advertisement for tennis and as a great economic driver for the city,'' Smith said during an interview Wednesday.
According to the U.S.T.A.'s plans:
Armstrong Stadium, which seats 10,000, will be replaced on its current site with a building that can fit 15,000 people.
''Louis is 50 years old,'' Smith said. ''It's served its useful life.''
Zausner said the new stadium might not be ready until 2018.
The grandstand, which abuts Armstrong Stadium in the northeastern part of the tennis center, will be torn down. Its new home will be on a teardrop-shaped piece of land in the southwestern corner of the property. Capacity will expand to 8,000 from 6,000, and the stadium could be open in 2015. A building with retail, office and storage space -- and clay courts on top -- would replace the grandstand.
An area west of Ashe Stadium with seven tournament and practice courts will feature a covered, two-level viewing deck. It will let fans look one way to see players prepare for their matches on five practice courts and look the other way to watch them play on three tournament courts. There will be about 800 seats in each of the tournament courts.
To enhance fan movement between the new grandstand and the 2,800-seat Court 17, which opened last year, a walkway will be created by moving seven courts on the southern border of the tennis center 30 to 50 feet further south. To do that, one lane of an exterior three-lane roadway, United Nations Avenue North, would be eliminated to take about three-quarters of an acre. That is the only land outside the tennis center's leased property line needed for the project.
The city would pay for the diversion, a little bit southward, of a Grand Central Parkway connector road, which currently goes through the land where the grandstand would be built.
The construction project will be financed by the U.S.T.A. The group financed the construction of Ashe Stadium, which opened in 1997. Debt from that and other construction at the tennis center is still being paid off. Through 2014, total debt payments will be $19.5 million, but they will drop to $6.7 million through 2023, allowing the tennis association to borrow more to pay for the new construction.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TENNIS (93%); SPORTS (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MAYORS (68%); TOURNAMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES TENNIS ASSOCIATION (91%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



528 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Drilling in New York

 BODY:
Gov. Andrew Cuomo's preliminary blueprint for hydraulic fracturing in New York State strikes a sensible balance between the need for economic development and the need to protect the environment and human health. Many important issues must still be addressed -- and tough, detailed regulations issued -- before Mr. Cuomo can think of greenlighting drilling. But he appears to be on the right track. 
As reported in The Times on Wednesday, the plan would restrict hydraulic fracturing to economically depressed counties along the Pennsylvania border, and only if local communities agreed to the drilling. Hydraulic fracturing would be prohibited in sensitive watersheds that supply unfiltered drinking water to New York City and Syracuse.
More than a dozen states have encouraged extensive hydraulic fracturing. But the natural gas industry is poorly regulated, and the environmental risks are real. Reports of air and water pollution elsewhere have raised fear and opposition among many residents who live in New York's portion of the gas-rich Marcellus Shale formation.
The state's Department of Environmental Conservation is expected to issue a broad environmental analysis as well as detailed regulations governing natural gas drilling late this summer. The rules must require that wells be properly encased and drilled deep enough to prevent drilling fluids and methane gas from contaminating water supplies. They must provide for the safe disposal of the millions of gallons of chemical-laced wastewater discharged by every well, and prevent leaks of air pollutants, including methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
Mr. Cuomo must also beef up a state regulatory apparatus that is now severely understaffed. The challenge in New York is the same as it is elsewhere: harvesting a considerable natural resource without putting public health or the environment at risk. An exemplary regulatory program could be a model for the rest of the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); METHANE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); WATER QUALITY (75%); OIL FIELD CHEMICALS (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (74%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (73%); AIR POLLUTANTS (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); COUNTIES (70%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



529 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Inch Higher As Gas Slips

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Americans barely increased their spending at retail businesses in April and May, constrained by weak job creation and paltry wage increases, the Commerce Department said Wednesday. 
A decline in gas prices pulled down overall sales in both months by 0.2 percent, the agency said in its monthly report.
Excluding gas station sales, retail sales grew only modestly in May and fell in April. The report could lead economists to lower their outlooks for economic growth in the April-June period.
Soft economic growth may get a little softer in the quarter, said Jennifer Lee, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets. ''It is not receiving much support from the all-important consumer,'' Ms. Lee added. Cheaper gas also lowered a measure of wholesale prices by the most in nearly three years.
The producer price index, which measures price changes before they reach the consumer, dropped 1 percent in May, the Labor Department said in a separate report. That reflected a 9 percent fall in wholesale gas prices.
The decline at the pump could bode well for consumers in the coming months. The average national price for a gallon of gas was $3.54 Wednesday, 40 cents cheaper than the year's peak price in early April.
And while overall retail sales barely budged in May, Americans did spend more on big purchases.
Auto sales rose sharply, and sales of furniture and appliances also increased. That suggests consumers may already be benefiting from lower gas prices.
''The continued fall in gasoline prices should support consumption by freeing up cash to be spent on other items,'' said Paul Dales, senior United States economist at Capital Economics. He said that although real consumption growth appeared likely to slow, ''we doubt it will grind to a complete halt.''
Total retail sales fell in May to $404.6 billion, slightly below March's record level of $406.2 billion and 21.6 percent higher than the recession low hit in March 2009.
Gas station sales fell 2.2 percent in May, accounting for most of the decline in retail sales. Excluding gas station sales, retail spending rose just 0.1 percent in May.
Sales at building supply stores, which include Home Depot, fell 1.7 percent in May. And general merchandise stores, a category that includes Walmart and Target, fell for the second straight month.
Part of the decline in those categories may be a result of stronger spending at the start of the year. A mild winter encouraged some homeowners to get a head start on remodeling and landscaping projects, which normally take place in spring.
In another report, the Commerce Department said business stockpiles grew 0.4 percent in April, slightly better than March's rate of 0.3 percent.
Sales were up 0.2 percent in April, matching the revised March increase. The government initially reported that business sales rose 0.6 percent in March.
It would take roughly five weeks to exhaust existing stockpiles at the April sales pace. That's considered a healthy time frame and suggests businesses will keep restocking to meet demand, which should bolster growth in the April-June quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); WHOLESALERS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (89%); GAS STATIONS (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BUILDING SUPPLY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOME CENTERS (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



530 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall on Fears Over Greek Elections

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Wall Street ended lower on Wednesday, driven down by fears ahead of the weekend elections in Greece.
Up to 800 million euros ($1 billion) have been pulled out of Greek banks daily before the election on Sunday, which many fear will result in Greece leaving the euro zone. If that happens, investors worry that other peripheral nations may also have to drop the euro.
The financial, energy and materials sectors were driven lower by concerns about the euro zone. 
There is a ''lack of details or specifics coming out of Europe, and that creates more of a vicious cycle,'' Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets in Boston, said. ''The euro has been a concern every single day.''
Also weighing on sentiment, the government reported that retail sales in the United States fell in May to their worst level in two years, the latest data to point to sluggish growth in the nation after a weaker-than-expected jobs report in May sparked widespread fears of a slowdown. The S.& P. retail index lost 1.5 percent.
Shares of JPMorgan Chase rose 1.6 percent as the bank's chief executive, Jamie Dimon, defended the portfolio behind JPMorgan's recent multibillion-dollar trading loss, telling lawmakers it was a genuine hedge aimed at making a profit if a credit crisis hit.
In the overall market, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 77.42 points, or 0.62 percent, to 12,496.38. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 9.30 points, or 0.70 percent, to 1,314.88. The Nasdaq composite index fell 24.46 points, or 0.86 percent, to 2,818.61.
Investors have pushed Spain's 10-year borrowing costs to their highest level since the introduction of the euro in 1999, adding to uncertainty over the plan to bail out the country's struggling banks.
In the United States, government debt prices rose after a Treasury sale of new 10-year debt drew strong demand and weaker-than-expected inflation and consumer spending data reinforced the view of slowing economic growth.
Prices gained in early trading as the data raised expectations the Federal Reserve might embark on more bond purchases to support the economy, a move that would underpin private demand for Treasuries.
The gains were extended after the Treasury sold $22 billion in new 10-year notes at record low auction yields of 1.622 percent. The bid was aided by fears that Europe's debt crisis may worsen.
In trading for existing bonds, the Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 19/32, to 101 12/32, and the yield fell to 1.60 percent from 1.66 percent late Tuesday.
In company news, Dell, the No. 2 PC maker in the United States, said it intended to raise its target on dividends and share buybacks to 20 to 35 percent of free cash flow. Dell said its corporate software and services business was on track to grow by an average of 10 percent annually until 2016. Its shares advanced 2.5 percent to $12.27.
An influential government adviser in China was quoted as saying the country's economic growth could fall below 7 percent in the second quarter if weak activity persisted in June.
Investors have been looking to China's relatively robust expansion to pick up the slack from Europe, especially demand for commodities.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); EURO ZONE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); BONDS (89%); EURO (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (85%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); AUCTIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); RETAIL SALES (68%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CONSUMER SPENDING (68%); COMPUTER MAKERS (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) GREECE (94%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



531 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: In Asia-Pacific Region, New Low-Cost Airlines Are Opening Rapidly

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
SINGAPORE -- The airline industry is suffering from global economic turmoil. But people like Kelvin Mok, who just graduated from college in Hong Kong, are helping to ensure that in Asia, at least, the sector is continuing to grow.
Mr. Mok and seven of his friends were headed to Thailand last weekend for a 12-day graduation trip that will take them to Phuket, Bangkok and Chiang Mai, on several flights on AirAsia, a regional low-cost airline.
Or consider Venkateswara Konduru, who comes from Bangalore, India, and works in the information technology sector in Hong Kong. Mr. Konduru's wife and two children were visiting him in Hong Kong and flew back to Bangalore on Dragonair, a subsidiary of Cathay Pacific.
Europe is struggling to contain its debt crisis. Many Americans are jobless. Consumers are thinking twice about buying plane tickets. And freight volumes have slumped. 
Still, although the once rapid pace of growth in China and India has slowed, airlines in the Asia-Pacific region will generate profits of $2 billion this year according to the latest forecasts by the International Air Transport Association, published Monday. That is far more than airlines in any other region.
And new airlines are popping up at a faster pace than ever.
The latest is Scoot, a no-frills offshoot of the venerable and proudly high-end Singapore Airlines. Scoot's first flight took off from Changi Airport in Singapore on June 4, carrying about 400 passengers to Sydney, Australia.
Two more low-cost airlines, AirAsia Japan and Jetstar Japan, are scheduled to start flying within weeks. Peach, a low-cost airline in Japan, started flying in March. And a/ venture by China Eastern Airlines and Qantas is in the pipeline for next year.
Are the skies above Asia big enough, and are the pockets of Asian consumers deep enough, to support even more airlines?
Many airline executives and analysts say they are, because of a combination of rising affluence that has created a growing middle class; the construction of many more airports; more affordable tickets; and the region's vast geography.
Scoot, for one, was undaunted by the ominous economy as it began commercial operations last week.
Bookings are solid, Scoot's chief executive, Campbell Wilson, said in an interview in a bustling coffee shop at Changi Airport here.
In part, the burst of activity in Asia shows that the region is still catching up with Europe and the United States.
In particular, no-frills airlines resembling those that shook up the United States and European markets in the 1970s and '80s have been flying in Asia only since 2001, when AirAsia introduced the concept locally from its base in Malaysia. Much of the recent growth in Asian airline activity has been in the low-cost sector.
But Asia's airline boom also reflects the rapid growth of many of the region's economies.
Just five years ago, Asia-Pacific airlines had a combined fleet totaling 3,800 passenger planes. That number has increased to 5,600, said Corrine Png, head of regional transportation research for JPMorgan Chase in Singapore, who estimated that at least 10 airlines had started in the region in the last decade. She expects the low-cost airline market in the region to grow to $23 billion, or about 30 percent of the overall market, by 2014 from $18 billion now.
Beijing could soon overtake Atlanta as the world's busiest airport in passenger traffic. In 2001, Beijing was not even among the world's top 30, according to the Airports Council International.
''There's a huge potential driven by economic growth,'' said Chris de Lavigne, an analyst at the research firm Frost & Sullivan in Singapore. ''Purchasing power is increasing quite rapidly. More and more people can afford to fly.''
Attesting to that fact was a group of 36 Thais who were checking in last weekend for a Hong Kong-to-Phuket flight after a few days of sightseeing and shopping in Hong Kong and Macau. Most of them had never been abroad before, said their harried guide, wielding stacks of passports.
Changing lifestyles have also contributed to rising demand for air travel.
As most Asian economies power ahead, companies are finding it tough to attract and retain workers. One way to appeal to employees is to emphasize work-life balance -- encouraging employees to take vacation, for example.
That shift, said Mr. Wilson of Scoot, is feeding through to more leisure travel and helps to explain the soaring demand for low-cost flights in the region.
And then there is the sheer geography of Asia, where huge distances separate nations and where some countries consist of numerous islands.
As Mr. Wilson put it: ''You can't drive to the Philippines from Singapore, you can't drive to Indonesia.''
Governments have been expanding airports and adding dozens of new ones in recent years. Many more are likely to come.
''There are 270 cities with a population of 1 million in Asia today that don't have an airport,'' Mr. de Lavigne of Frost & Sullivan said. ''Emerging Asia is clearly where the opportunities are in the next 20 to 30 years.''
The Asian airline sector has not been without casualties. In India, nearly all airlines are losing money, despite growing traffic volumes. In Australia, Qantas, one of the oldest and most established airlines in the region, is struggling to revive its ailing international operations. In Japan, the bankruptcy of Japan Airlines in 2010 started a regulatory rethinking that opened the country to a clutch of new no-frills operations.
In mainland China, state-controlled airlines like Air China and China Eastern and China Southern dominate the domestic market, shielded by regulations that allow little competition. Beijing may begin opening the market to low-cost operators in two to three years, said Mark Webb, regional transportation analyst for HSBC in Hong Kong, but until then, the established airlines ''have a lot of work to do before they can compete internationally.''
Still, the Asia-Pacific airline sector is growing, especially in the low-cost segment. Budget airlines like Jetstar, Cebu Pacific Air, Tiger Airways and AirAsia now have about one-quarter of the market, according to Ms. Png, the JPMorgan analyst. That compares with 35 percent for no-frills airlines in Europe and 30 percent in North America.
Low-cost airlines are also attracting business travel as the region becomes more important to the global economy. Ray Davis, an information technology project manager from Texas who lives in Hong Kong, was headed to Singapore on Tiger Airways on Sunday evening.
Still, rather than eroding older airlines' revenue, such airlines have helped expand the air-travel market.
''Low-cost carriers are stimulating more demand by putting air travel within the reach of people who might not otherwise be able to afford to fly,'' Ms. Png said. ''It is not a zero-sum game.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The first flight for Scoot, a low-cost airline, landed in Sydney, Australia, this month with about 400 passengers from Singapore. Scoot is an offshoot of the high-end carrier Singapore Airlines. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES MORGAN) CHARTS: Asia Takes to the Air: In recent years, Asia has become the engine for growth in the airline industry. The International Air Transport Association, an industry trade group, forecasts that two-thirds of profit this year will be made in Asia. (Source: International Air Transport Association) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (97%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); TICKET SALES (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (62%)

COMPANY: CHINA EASTERN AIRLINES CORP LTD (91%); AIRASIA X SDN BHD (57%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT ASSOCIATION (91%)

TICKER: K3CD (SGX) (91%); CEA (NYSE) (91%); 0670 (HKSE) (91%); C6L (SGX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (92%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (92%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (73%) ASIA (97%); SINGAPORE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); AUSTRALIA (93%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); THAILAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



532 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: We Who Are Left When a Generation Passes

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
Sometime in 1931, my dad and his four siblings, farm kids all, posed for a formal photograph. The boys are wearing suits, and the girl, my aunt Janelle, is wearing an infant's white dress. The oldest boy, Everon, is perhaps 12 years old, and my dad is 5. And now they are all gone. Everon and Janelle, the last of them, died six days apart in early June. 
They had lived and farmed near each other their entire lives: Everon on the home farm in northwest Iowa, Janelle and her husband, Louie, a few miles north over the Minnesota line. What I know about farming and the people who do it, I first began to learn in summers on those two farms.
I can just barely grasp how much the home farm has changed since Everon was born. Even when I was young, it was still biologically complex, full of different animals and various crops and a huge garden. The place is economically more complex now -- managing loan and insurance programs, subsidies and incentives -- but it is biologically simple: corn, soybeans, no animals, no garden.
Riding with Everon, as a boy, to the Sioux City stockyard, I got a glimpse of the social map he carried in his head -- a history of who had lived there, how the fields had been planted, all the farmhouses that were now invisible because they had been plowed under. I learned never to underestimate the human complexity hidden in a simple landscape.
Of Janelle, I can say that she always made me feel like a child in the very best possible way. And one day, talking to Everon about my grandfather and my dad, I realized, from his candor, that I had at last become an adult. I grew up with the idea that a generation is essentially a measure of cultural distance. Now that my dad and his siblings are all gone, I know better. It is easy to see and feel how tangible a generation really is -- in part because the land held those Klinkenborgs together, and so much of that land and life has gone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



533 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Jazz Acts, Blowing Superhot And Cool

BYLINE: By NATE CHINEN

 BODY:
So much about the Vision Festival communicates openness, multiplicity, fluctuation. An independent summit of experimental jazz, the festival has an aesthetic descended from the scrappy, permissive mood of downtown New York in the 1970s. Look closer, and over time you might notice that it's a tended garden like any other. It plays favorites and exercises biases. There's an outsider ethos at work in its presentation, but also an implicit closing of the ranks. Even the outside has an outside, for practical purposes.
Which is mostly to the credit of a festival committed to preserving a point of view, on its own terms, in the face of cold indifference and colder economic realities. (At this point the Vision Festival, 17 years strong, is the oldest continually running jazz festival in the city, which may strike you as either incredible or inevitable.) 
This year's edition was programmed as usual with its constituency in mind, from a lifetime-achievement celebration for the saxophonist and trumpeter Joe McPhee on Wednesday to the heavy presence this weekend of Kidd Jordan, an important saxophonist and educator from New Orleans who wouldn't otherwise be appearing in these parts.
But the festival's opening night, on Monday, felt at times like a shake-up. It's being held in Brooklyn this year -- at the new-music hub Roulette, on Atlantic Avenue -- after a longtime association with the Lower East Side of Manhattan. And the first proper group to appear on this year's bill only underscored that sense of dislocation.
The band was Kneebody, an ultramodern young collective. What occasioned the band's appearance was ''MoNoMe,'' a Chamber Music America commission composed by the saxophonist Ben Wendel as a collaboration with the electronic artist Daedelus, whose absence must have thwarted some of the piece's intention, though it didn't feel that way.
Kneebody likes deep-pocket funk, shrewd dissonance and high dynamic contrast, often suggesting a brainy but visceral upgrade of fusion. Each of the four included sections of ''MoNoMe'' reflected this style, with variations: one piece had an aggressively syncopated horn line, and another had calmly shifting hues. The playing, notably by the trumpeter Shane Endsley, was bright and slashing. And Mr. Wendel made a point of including his band mates' tunes, of which the rousing standout was ''Unforeseen Influences,'' by the keyboardist Adam Benjamin.
If Kneebody delivered a controlled intensity from beyond Vision's borders, the Mark Dresser Quintet forged something similar within them. Led by Mr. Dresser, a bassist of imposing technical prowess, it featured Rudresh Mahanthappa on alto saxophone, Michael Dessen on trombone, Denman Maroney on piano and Michael Sarin on drums.
The band played a closing set teeming with movement. At one point its loose muscularity recalled Charles Mingus, and at another its slithery euphony evoked Dave Holland. The constant was Mr. Dresser's deep focus and authority, which enabled his sidemen -- Mr. Mahanthappa in particular -- to thrash unburdened, with no fear of derailing the whole. The band's feverishness mingled with a cool, sniper-grade precision.
By contrast, there was nothing cool about the marathon exertion of a quartet featuring the British tenor saxophonist Paul Dunmall, with Matthew Shipp on piano, Joe Morris on bass and Gerald Cleaver on drums. Spontaneous from start to finish, the performance was a staggering display of resilience, force and intuition, the kind of set that knocks the wind out of you.
Mr. Dunmall's sound was tough and pliable, with the odd trace of a Sonny Rollins tone but an outflow more like an open fire hydrant. The other musicians, all Americans, matched his effort without always following his lead. Mr. Cleaver and Mr. Shipp sometimes set up pockets of groove, parsing the fury into deliverable units. It was marvelous, the Vision Festival ideal incarnate, and it seemed strengthened and clarified by Kneebody's prior example. Change is good, as long as it's the right amount.
The Vision Festival continues through Sunday at Roulette, 509 Atlantic Avenue, near Third Avenue, Boerum Hill, Brooklyn, (917) 267-0363, visionfestival.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kneebody performing at the Vision Festival on Monday night. From left, Shane Endsley, Ben Wendel, Kaveh Rastegar (on bass) and Nate Wood.
Matthew Shipp, who played with a quartet featuring the British tenor saxophonist Paul Dunmall in a gripping, spontaneous set.
 Members of the Mark Dresser group, from left, Rudresh Mahanthappa, Mark Dresser (on bass), Michael Dessen and Michael Sarin. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (86%); MUSIC (86%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



534 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
RUSSIAN OFFICIAL RILES SOME
IN EFFORT TO REVIVE THE PAST
Vladimir Medinsky, Russia's new cultural minister, has called for burying Lenin's corpse and renaming streets after the murdered family of Czar Nicholas II. His critics said he was aiming to deflect criticism of his appointment and distract antigovernment protesters. Page A5 
POSTWAR DANGER IN LIBYA
The death of an explosive ordnance disposal technician in Libya this spring illustrates the continuing problem of loose weapons stockpiles almost a year after the ouster of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi. Page A10
TIGHTER AIR SECURITY ABROAD
American officers are advising local authorities at several foreign airports. The program reflects an effort to tighten security in the face of attempts by terrorists to blow up planes headed to the United State. Page A14
National
IN TEXAS, A CANDIDATE
IS COLORFUL AND CANDID
Known for defying political correctness, the Texas state land commissioner, Jerry Patterson, is seeking to fill bigger boots by running for the lieutenant governor's office in 2014. Page A16
New York
REPUBLICANS ARE EXPECTED
TO RETAIN POWER IN ALBANY
As they look toward the November elections, Republicans in Albany have reason for optimism. They are generally favored to retain their control of the Senate, thanks to favorable redistricting, solid fund-raising and an alliance with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo. Page A25
Business
INQUEST INTO CABLE'S ACTIONS
TOWARD ONLINE COMPETITION
The Justice Department is quietly investigating the cable industry's behavior toward nascent online video competitors as part of an inquiry into possible anticompetitive practices by cable companies. Page B1
A BOON BORN OF A CRISIS
Businesses big and small are getting a break these days as the European financial crisis and slowing growth in China, India and the United States have pushed down the prices of a wide array of commodities in recent weeks. Page B1
APPLE'S IMPRESSIVE LAPTOP
The new Apple laptop hits an number of high notes in one swoop: it starts up quickly and has a good Retina display screen. And, of course, it is expensive. State of the Art, David Pogue. Page B1
Sports
KENTUCKY COMMISSIONBARS DRUG IN TOP RACES
The Kentucky Horse Racing Commission approved a limited ban on the race-day medication Lasix in an effort to restore public confidence that horses are running without what many say is a performance-enhancing drug. Page B13
CHINESE SOCCER SENTENCINGS
The former head of the Chinese national soccer association and 10 former national team players and executives were sentenced for accepting bribes and fixing matches, said the state-run news agency. Page B15
Arts
NEW MUSIC HALL THEATER
OFFERS MORE FLEXIBILITY
The Brooklyn Academy of Music's newest theater -- the Richard B. Fisher Building -- represents a step to a dedicated smaller stage for more experimental work. Page C1
Home
DOES OFFICE FURNITURE
HAVE TO BE SO SERIOUS?
This year at Neocon, a contract furniture trade show in Chicago, visitors were greeted by the work of designers challenging the idea that offices require serious furniture. Design Notebook. Page D1
Style
AMY SACCO HOLDS COURT
AT A NEW CITY NIGHTSPOT
Amy Sacco, the force behind the former nighttime meccas Bungalow 8 and Lot 61, opens her latest celebrity-soaked venture, No. 8, on West 16th Street. Page E1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); OFFICE DESIGN (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (70%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); SPORTS TAMPERING (69%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (69%); FUNDRAISING (65%); HORSE RACING (65%); INTERNET VIDEO (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (63%); SOCCER (63%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (62%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (60%); SENTENCING (60%); MURDER (57%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (57%); TERRORISM (54%); REDISTRICTING (51%); BRIBERY (50%); MONITORS & DISPLAYS (50%); EURO CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (81%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



535 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: With New Leader, Regulator Finds a New Direction as Well

BYLINE: By JESSE EISINGER, PROPUBLICA. 
Jesse Eisinger is a reporter for ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that produces investigative journalism in the public interest. E-mail: jesse@ propublica.org. Twitter: @eisingerj.

 BODY:
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is so lenient on the banks it is supposed to regulate that it could be mistaken for a division of the United States Chamber of Commerce. Does its new head, Thomas J. Curry, have any hope of giving it a backbone?
Mr. Curry, a former director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a regulator that actually regulates, has been leading the O.C.C. for about six weeks. He made his debut in Congress last week, expressing contrition over his agency's failure to monitor JPMorgan Chase's trading that resulted in multibillion-dollar losses for the bank. 
In an interview, Mr. Curry showed hopeful signs of recognizing what's wrong with the agency.
''I hear there are concerns out the about objectivity of the O.C.C.,'' he told me in his first public interview since taking the position. ''It's not an issue of technical skills. It's really an issue of refocusing our mission and our sense of purpose and making sure we look at things with basically a healthy skepticism.''
Sad to say, an emphasis on regulatory skepticism is what now passes for radical. But Mr. Curry has the right critique. The O.C.C. is smart enough, professional enough and sufficiently funded.
But the agency suffers from ''mission confusion,'' as a former regulator at a rival agency told me. Indeed, if anything, the comptroller's office is too smart and too good at what it does. The heavyweight there, by all accounts, is Julie Williams, the agency's general counsel. She is savvy, aggressive, generally knows more about bank rules than anyone else in the room - and consistently pushes for less regulation, according to other regulators and Congressional workers with whom I have spoken.
(The O.C.C. did not make Ms. Williams available and Mr. Curry declined to comment on personnel matters.)
It's quite remarkable what the agency has managed to accomplish in the few short years since the financial crisis, when one might have thought that bank regulators would rethink how they approach their jobs.
Where to start?
The JPMorgan Chase losses have given new urgency to the Volcker Rule, which bars banks from making speculative bets with their money because they are backed by the taxpayer. The O.C.C. was last heard using a crowbar to open up huge exemptions in the Volcker Rule. The rule is being finished, and it's not clear, even under Mr. Curry's leadership, that the agency has backed off from any of its stances. Mr. Curry declined to comment on current rule-making.
Gutting Volcker was in keeping with several of the O.C.C.'s positions after passage of Dodd-Frank, the main legislation to overhaul how the government regulates the financial system. John Walsh, who was the acting comptroller until this year, was a loyal and true friend of Big Banks. He was openly critical of the efforts to tighten regulation of the financial industry. He even fought with other bank regulators about how much additional capital the giant, systemically important banks would need to hold, supporting a paltry 1 percent, when other regulators were pushing for an additional cushion of 3 percent.
Before the crisis, the O.C.C. had often exercised its rights to ''pre-emption,'' or cutting off state regulations before they were instituted. One could debate the merits here, but the regulator used its power to kill tough rules emerging from the states. Then Dodd-Frank sought to hinder that power. The O.C.C. openly defied it, coming out with a legal interpretation that said, well, we think we can do just as much pre-emption as ever.
That was too far even for F.O.B. (friend of banks) Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and his staff. The Treasury Department's general counsel fired off an unusual and sharp rebuke of the regulator, accusing the O.C.C. of trying to ignore the law. The agency backed down.
But wait, as with the Ginsu knife, there's more! Just last month, the Office of the Inspector General of the Treasury Department issued a report that criticized the O.C.C. over its failure to supervise its banks' foreclosure processes in the wake of the ''robo-signing'' scandal and myriad other problems with home loan modifications. As the foreclosure wave hit, the agency continued to insist that things were fine at the banks and moved sluggishly, when at all, to push for remedies.
All of this underscores the lost opportunity of the Dodd-Frank Act. The law did little to nothing to remedy the structural problems of our financial regulatory system. We got no reordering or streamlining. True, the worst bank regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, was shuttered. But in its place came multiple new agencies, offices and committees: the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Office of Financial Research and the One Committee to Rule Them All, the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
What we didn't get enough of was attitude adjustment. Good regulation isn't made merely through money, staffing and legal power. It's made through will and commitment. Regulators have to believe in their mission.
Previously, O.C.C. regulators have emphasized that they want our banking system to be ''safe and sound.'' To that, Mr. Curry has added the word ''fair.'' A banking system needs to serve people and businesses, so that we don't simply have, as he says, ''a safe and sound national bank system just for sake of the system itself.''
''I'm committed to improving the agency's reputation,'' Mr. Curry told me.
The question is whether the host will reject the transplant.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas J. Curry, the comptroller of the currency, testified at a Senate Banking Committee hearing on June 6, his first appearance before Congress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); LAWYERS (64%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (91%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (72%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



536 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Proposal Would Restrict Gas Drilling to Struggling Region

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's administration is pursuing a plan to limit the controversial drilling method known as hydraulic fracturing to portions of several struggling New York counties along the border with Pennsylvania, and to permit it only in communities that express support for the technology.
The plan, described by a senior official at the State Department of Environmental Conservation and others with knowledge of the administration's strategy, would limit drilling to the deepest areas of the Marcellus Shale rock formation in an effort to reduce the risk of groundwater contamination.
Even within that southwest New York region -- primarily Broome, Chemung, Chenango, Steuben and Tioga Counties -- drilling would be permitted only in towns that agree to it and would be banned in Catskill Park, aquifers and nationally designated historic districts. 
The officials spoke on the condition of anonymity because the deliberations in the administration are continuing.
The strategy has not been made final and details could change, but it has been taking shape over several months. It would be contingent on hydraulic fracturing's receiving final approval from state regulators, a step that is not a foregone conclusion but is widely expected later this summer. Department of Environmental Conservation regulators last year signaled their initial support for the drilling process around the state, with exceptions for environmentally sensitive areas like New York City's upstate watershed.
Since that announcement, the Cuomo administration has been deluged with tens of thousands of e-mails and letters mostly objecting to the process, which is better known as hydrofracking or fracking, and protesters have become a regular presence at the Capitol.
Mr. Cuomo's administration is now trying to acknowledge the economic needs of the rural upstate area, while also honoring the opposition expressed in some communities, and limiting the ire of environmentalists, who worry that hydrofracking could contaminate groundwater and lead to other hazards. The administration had initially expected to allow 75 hydrofracking permits in the first year, but now expects to reduce that to 50.
In fracking, large amounts of sand, water and chemicals are injected deep underground at high pressures to extract natural gas from rock formations.
President Obama expressed support for natural gas drilling in his State of the Union address this year, saying, ''The development of natural gas will create jobs, and power trucks and factories that are cleaner and cheaper, proving that we don't have to choose between our environment and our economy.''
But concerns have persisted about the chemicals used in the process. Last year, for instance, federal regulators linked fracking to a contaminated water supply in part of central Wyoming.
In New York, while more than 100 communities have passed moratoriums or bans on fracking, a few dozen in the Southern Tier, a row of counties directly north of Pennsylvania, and in western New York have passed resolutions in favor of the drilling process.
''A lot of people look at this as a way to save our property,'' said Dewey Decker, a farmer, a member of a coalition of landowners supporting fracking and the town supervisor of Sanford, in Broome County, at the Pennsylvania border. Residents of the town, including Mr. Decker, have already leased thousands of acres to a drilling company.
Mr. Decker said that the area's traditional dairy business had been in sharp decline, and that the promise of fracking had already helped some residents. He said there were ''a lot of people who, when we signed and got the upfront money, were going to be losing their land and couldn't pay their taxes.''
The Marcellus Shale is a rock formation that stretches from the Appalachian Mountains into the central and western parts of New York. State regulators believe that by limiting drilling to areas where the Marcellus Shale is at least 2,000 feet deep, risks of contaminating the water supply with toxic chemicals will be reduced. Regulators would require drillers to maintain a 1,000-foot buffer between water sources and the top of the shale formation.
Environmental groups have been divided over whether fracking should be allowed at all. Some mainstream environmental organizations have not closed the door on the idea of fracking.
''We recognize that gas is going to be part of our energy mix and it's preferable to other types of fuels that are out there,'' said Rob Moore, executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York. ''So it's not really an option to say 'no way' to natural gas. But we're not in a rush to see this resource extracted in New York.''
Mr. Moore called the Cuomo plan, which is being developed by the Department of Environmental Conservation, an ''interesting idea.''
''I'd say it's encouraging that D.E.C. continues to look at these issues very thoroughly and carefully, but there are a lot of questions about how this would roll out,'' he said. ''Can communities that want to opt in handle it? Is there enough emergency response in the region to handle well explosions? Spill response?''
By contrast, a coalition of lesser-known groups opposes fracking under any circumstances and plans further demonstrations.
''Sending a polluting industry into our most economically impoverished communities is a violation of environmental justice,'' Sandra Steingraber, the founder of an umbrella group called New Yorkers Against Fracking, said in a statement. ''Partitioning our state into frack and no-frack zones based on economic desperation is a shameful idea.''
Reflecting the frustration of such groups, the actor Mark Ruffalo, perhaps the state's highest profile opponent of fracking, urged his more than 200,000 Twitter followers to send a message to the governor: ''Let's keep his phones tied up all day.''
The critics have been countered by the industry's considerable lobbying muscle. Ten companies or trade groups that lobbied on fracking and other issues of concern to the natural gas industry spent $4.5 million lobbying in Albany over the last three years, according to an analysis prepared by the New York Public Interest Research Group.
James Smith, a spokesman for the Independent Oil and Gas Association of New York, said of the proposal being considered by the Cuomo administration, ''We view it as a positive step.''
''We expect when the D.E.C. has completed its review, the folks that make these decisions will be convinced that it can be done safely,'' he added. ''It's good news for the farmers and other landowners in the Southern Tier, and small businesses that have wanted this to occur, and municipalities and local governments that will reap the benefits of the taxes that are going to be collected. And it's good news for our members.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dewey Decker, the town supervisor of Sanford, N.Y., at his farm
he is a member of a coalition of landowners who support hydraulic fracturing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A31) MAP: Regulating Hydraulic Fracturing: Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is preparing a proposal that would allow hydraulic fracturing for gas only in Marcellus Shale areas where deposits are at least 2,000 feet deep. The plan would require the approval of municipalities for the gas-drilling process to begin in their areas. Here are some townships and cities that have already taken positions regarding the process. (Sources: Karen Edelstein, Fractracker.org
 Joint Landowners Coalition of New York Inc.) (A31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (90%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); APPROVALS (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (68%); JOB CREATION (63%); NATURAL GAS EXPLORATION (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



537 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Joe Average, Just Waiting For Salvation

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
A HOLOGRAM FOR THE KING
By Dave Eggers
312 pages. McSweeney's Books. $25.
The hero of Dave Eggers's absorbing new novel ''A Hologram for the King'' is a penny-ante Job named Alan Clay, who finds himself in an absurd situation. Alan is deeply in debt, unable to pay his daughter's college tuition and plagued by a scary golf-ball-size lump on the back of his neck. He's betting everything on a last-ditch chance at a big payday, hoping he can sell the Saudi king, Abdullah, on a lucrative technology contract -- a contract that depends on Alan's going to a remote real estate development in Saudi Arabia and making an elaborate holographic presentation to the king, who may or may not even show up. 
''Hologram'' is studded with allusions to a rich array of literary classics, but Mr. Eggers uses a new, pared down, Hemingwayesque voice to recount his story, a voice that stands in sharp contrast to the baroque, hyperventilated one he employed in his dazzling 2000 debut book, ''A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius.'' Gone are the self-conscious commentary and postmodern pyrotechnics of ''Genius.'' Gone too are the less effective exercises in mimicry and pastiche featured in his 2002 novel ''You Shall Know Our Velocity.''
Perhaps the remarkable act of ventriloquism that Mr. Eggers performed in his 2006 book ''What Is the What: The Autobiography of Valentino Achak Deng,'' based on the real life story of a Sudanese refugee, awakened him to the possibilities of a simpler, more straight-ahead brand of storytelling. In any case, he demonstrates in ''Hologram'' that he is master of this more old-fashioned approach as much as he was a pioneering innovator with ''Genius.'' In Mr. Eggers's telling, the 54-year-old Alan is not just another hapless loser undergoing a midlife crisis. Rather, his sad-funny-dreamlike story unfolds to become an allegory about the frustrations of middle-class America, about the woes unemployed workers and sidelined entrepreneurs have experienced in a newly globalized world in which jobs are being outsourced abroad. We learn that Alan's father was the foreman at a Stride Rite shoe factory in Massachusetts, which in 1992 ''ditched the unions and moved production to Kentucky'' and then, five years later, to Thailand and China. Alan, for his part, sold bicycles, ''and did fine, extremely well for a while there, until he and others decided to have other people, 10,000 miles away, build the things they sold, and soon left himself with nothing to sell.''
On Alan's way to Saudi Arabia a fellow passenger complains that America has ''become a nation of indoor cats,'' a ''nation of doubters, worriers, overthinkers.'' An American architect, who has designed a couple of the tallest buildings in the world, tells Alan he has been working for 10 years in Dubai, Singapore, Abu Dhabi and China, where ''the dreaming's being done'' now. And Alan himself thinks back on the trip he and his daughter, Kit, took to Cape Canaveral to watch one of the last shuttle flights, and how so many of the NASA employees they met were soon going to be out of work.
A summary of such moments may make ''Hologram'' sound like a schematic lesson on American decline, but it's not. Thanks to Mr. Eggers's uncommon ability to access his characters' emotions and channel their every mood, we are instantly immersed in Alan's story, rooting for him somehow to win an audience with the king and turn his life around. He holes up in his Jidda hotel room, scrolling through the personal photos on his laptop, ''the vast grid of his life in thumbnails,'' and like Saul Bellow's Herzog, writes letters he never sends. Vacillating between despair and hope, anxiety and optimism, he relives his failed marriage, his failed business endeavors, his fantasies of making the big score with the king and his fears that such hopes are nothing but a naive delusion.
When a European woman named Hanne comes on to him, Alan finds himself wishing he could go home. All he wants to do is drink by himself and watch old Red Sox DVDs. ''After the divorce he'd been angry for years,'' Mr. Eggers writes, ''but at the same time he was alive. He'd laughed, he'd dated, he'd enjoyed the things he was expected to enjoy. But now he was something else.''
It doesn't take long for Alan to discover the incongruities of life in the kingdom, where the wretched excesses made possible by oil money coexist with ancient mores regarding women, where a craving for the modern conveniences of life coexists with a deep suspicion of the West. In a society where, he is told, adultery is a crime that can be punished by death, Alan finds himself invited to a decadent private party featuring scantily clad women and lots of pills and booze.
Some of Alan's adventures take on a decidedly Kafkaesque flavor. He goes on a long trip with his driver Yousef to Yousef's father's house, which resembles a castle in a remote village. Alan's grappling with the bureaucracy in King Abdullah Economic City, the urban-planning development where he and his team are to make their holographic presentation to the king, is even more surreal. The development is supposed to become one of the kingdom's showplaces, a futuristic oasis of modernist architecture and relatively modern social mores, on the shores of the Red Sea. In Mr. Eggers's fictional riff on a real place, what Alan initially glimpses, however, is not the next Dubai or Abu Dhabi, but a collection of three modest buildings: a pastel-pink condominium, a two-story welcome center surrounded by fountains, and a glass office building.
If Alan and his team can make a persuasive presentation, the king might award the company they represent an information technology contract for the entire city. But the Wi-Fi and the air-conditioning in the tent where they have set up their equipment are erratic, and day after day they go on waiting for the king, who fails to arrive. One worker tells Alan that the king ''hasn't been here in a while'' -- a while being at least 18 months. Another day a newspaper reports that the king is in Yemen, which means he is not coming to King Abdullah Economic City. Later there are reports that the king is in Riyadh or traveling to Bahrain.
The analogies to Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' seem completely intentional. The novel's epigraph is even taken from Vladimir's famous speech in that play, in which he says: ''Let us do something, while we have the chance! It is not every day that we are needed. Not indeed that we personally are needed. Others would meet the case equally well, if not better. To all mankind they were addressed, those cries for help still ringing in our ears! But at this place, at this moment of time, all mankind is us, whether we like it or not.''
Mr. Eggers wisely does not strain to try to turn Alan's story into an existential parable of the human condition like ''Godot.'' Instead, he has achieved something that is more modest and equally satisfying: the writing of a comic but deeply affecting tale about one man's travails that also provides a bright, digital snapshot of our times.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 Dave Eggers (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); OUTSOURCING (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (77%); LITERATURE (73%); TUITION FEES (71%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); FOOTWEAR MFG (60%); REAL ESTATE (55%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%) SAUDI ARABIA (93%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (71%); CHINA (51%)

TITLE: A Hologram for the King (Book)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



538 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: Weak Economy's Mixed Blessing

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- Mark Juull, a construction contractor for public and residential housing, has something to be thankful for in this sluggish economy: With global commodity prices falling, he's saving $200 a week on fuel for his three trucks and finding deals on aluminum, lumber and roof shingles, which are typically made from petroleum.
But he says he thinks prices for his raw materials could easily shoot right back up, so he is not passing any of his savings on to his customers. ''When the economy hit me bad, I actually lost money,'' he said. ''So with prices going down, I am recouping.''
Businesses big and small are getting a break these days as the European financial crisis and slowing growth in China, India and the United States have pushed down the prices of a wide array of commodities in recent weeks. If the trend continues, businesses and consumers are likely to reap benefits through cheaper prices for goods ranging from cotton shirts to copper wiring and coffee beans. So far, however, businesses seem to be benefiting a lot more than their customers. 
Over the last month, global oil prices have declined by about 12 percent, while corn, copper, lead, cocoa and coffee have all dropped by 5 percent or more. Prices of corn, cocoa, oats, cotton, rubber, coffee, aluminum, silver, zinc and nickel are all more than 20 percent lower than a year ago.
Gasoline prices are falling precipitously, too, down nearly 20 cents over the last month alone, to a national average of $3.54 a gallon on Wednesday. That is nearly 45 cents below the high for the year reached in early April. The average household consumes 1,200 gallons of gasoline a year, so every dime shaved off the price of gas translates into a $120 annual savings, according to the Oil Price Information Service.
''The world economy is in risk of a recession and on that possibility, commodity prices weaken,'' said Allen L. Sinai, chief global economist for Decision Economics, a consulting firm. ''Lower inflation comes with weakening economies.''
Oil is among the commodities that have fallen in price the fastest despite continuing tensions in the Middle East and the tightening sanctions on Iran. OPEC production has been soaring in recent months because of mushrooming crude exports from Iraq, an almost total resumption of exports from Libya since the fall of the Qaddafi dictatorship, and a concerted drive by Saudi Arabia to push up production. At a meeting in Vienna on Thursday, OPEC is expected to decide to keep production steady despite weakening prices.
In the United States, a glut of natural gas has led to a price drop of about 10 percent over the last month and more than 50 percent over the last year. Since much of the nation's electricity is produced by burning natural gas, that should ease summer air-conditioning expenses for consumers. It will also help manufacturers, especially those who make plastics, fertilizers and other products that use natural gas as a feedstock.
But while consumers are pleased by lower fuel prices, they say they have yet to see much relief in the prices of other products linked to commodities.
''I don't feel food is going down,'' said Connie Shanley, a homemaker shopping at a Whole Foods store this week in West University Place, Tex. ''Paper towels, deodorant, soap, cleaning products seem to be going up. The total bill seems to be more.''
Libba Letton, a Whole Foods spokeswoman, conceded that there were limited benefits for consumers in the short term.
''Typically these market fluctuations do not immediately affect Whole Foods Market because we have long-term contracts with our suppliers,'' she said.
Other businesses also acknowledge that prices for raw materials go up and down far faster than the prices their customers pay for finished goods. Clothing retail executives have said they need to sell off inventory purchased when textile prices were higher before consumers can take full advantage of falling cotton prices, while car parts retailers say they are still paying high shipping costs that have not fallen along with lower fuel costs.
Paul J. Chakmak, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Boyd Gaming, a national chain of hotels and casinos, said his company was benefiting from lower jet fuel prices since it operates four weekly charter flights to shuttle tourists from Honolulu to Las Vegas. Lower natural gas prices help reduce the cost of cooking at hotel restaurants and of heating the shower water in 11,500 rooms. But he said the energy savings were marginal compared with labor and marketing costs, so customers would not see lower prices.
''It is a little soon,'' Mr. Chakmak said, to predict any long-lasting impact.
More than anything else, economists say, the steep drop in prices reflects deepening worries about a global economic slowdown as Greece prepares for elections next weekend that could lead to its withdrawal from the euro currency union, with financial repercussions across Europe and beyond. A sharp drop in European consumer demand, especially in Italy and Spain, has already reduced global trade in many goods.
But economists say that while manufacturers and retailers tend to pass higher costs on to their customers, they do not always pass along their savings when wholesale prices go down.
''Producers or stores tend to keep prices the same, and take a larger profit,'' said Michael P. Niemira, chief economist for the International Council of Shopping Centers.
Commodity prices are still generally high, and well above levels nearly four years ago, when the global financial panic reversed a seven-year bull market.
The decline in commodity prices varies widely depending on the raw material. Cotton prices are down nearly 50 percent over the last year, and have actually been recovering a bit in recent weeks. Copper, a metal that is viewed by many economists as a barometer for economic activity, is down by nearly 20 percent for the year. Gold, normally a commodity that soars with economic uncertainty, is higher but only by about 3 percent over the last year.
''Gold has behaved in line with risky assets, and the heightened uncertainty globally has not rallied the same support gold garnered on previous occasions,'' according to a recent research note from Barclays commodities.
Some analysts say that commodities have sold off so steeply that they are bound to turn around and resume the bull market that was spurred by growing demand from emerging middle classes in the developing world.
In an investment note this week, Goldman Sachs argued that oil and some other commodities were poised for a rebound. ''Although the macroeconomic backdrop still remains uncertain, particularly in Europe,'' the bank said, ''we believe that the price risks are now shifting more to the upside.''
Some analysts note that China is still growing and importing large amounts of oil, and can be expected to be a steady importer of raw materials.
''The fact that China is moving from an export model to an internal consumption model may be positive for some commodities such as energy and agricultural products,'' said Nelson Louie, global head of commodities at Credit Suisse's asset management division.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker separating nickel ore from other elements at a plant in Soroako, Indonesia. Nickel prices have fallen sharply. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YUSUF AHMAD/REUTERS)(B1)
A worker, above, at a coffee bean factory in Espirito Santo do Pinhal, Brazil, and an oil options trader, right, at the New York Mercantile Exchange. Raw materials are becoming cheaper.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NACHO DOCE/REUTERS
 RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) CHARTS: Cheaper Raw Materials: Commodities prices have declined in recent months. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); OATS MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); INFLATION (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); COFFEE (72%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (71%); EURO CRISIS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); AUSTRIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



539 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: City Clings to Rays as Others Clamor for a Move

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -- Mayor Bill Foster scoffs at critics who accuse him of holding the Tampa Bay Rays prisoner in their stadium. Yes, attendance has generally been weak at Tropicana Field, an unattractive venue that lacks many of the amenities found at newer stadiums and, yes, people who live on the other side of the bay, in Tampa, are clamoring for the team to move there.
But the Rays are legally obligated to play here for another 15 years, and the city, Pinellas County and the state still owe $80 million on the stadium, which opened two decades ago. St. Petersburg worked hard to get the Rays, and it is not going to let them leave without a fight, not when they have become one of the better teams in baseball and not when their rent payments provide most of the money over the next four years to pay off that $80 million debt.
''Everyone has an opinion, but not one of the people running their mouths are paying the freight on the stadium, and they were not here when the team was the laughingstock of the league,'' Foster said in his office not far from Tropicana Field. ''I put a lot in contracts, commitments and loyalty. All I'm asking is for them to abide by the contract.'' 
Foster is so intent on keeping the team in St. Petersburg that he has essentially threatened to sue anyone, including lawmakers in neighboring cities, who speaks to the team about moving elsewhere, citing a clause in the city's agreement that prohibits tortious interference, or inducements to break a contract.
So it goes for the Rays, who were one game out of first place in the American League East entering Wednesday's game against the Mets while playing in a stadium that sits at the bottom of baseball. Built before Camden Yards in Baltimore, which created the retro look that came to dominate baseball architecture, Tropicana Field is trapped in the 1970s, when domes, artificial turf and multipurpose bowls were standard fare.
The concession stands are buried in rotundas far from the seats, the scoreboard is tiny and the surrounding neighborhood is about as far from Wrigleyville as possible. On occasion, the stadium's catwalks have deflected balls hit high in the air, making the whole stadium -- it is the only one in baseball with a roof that does not open -- feel like a Rube Goldberg contraption.
Tropicana Field looks even older than it is because team after team has moved into a new stadium since the Rays began existence there in 1998. Even the Rays' in-state rivals, the Miami Marlins, have a new place to play.
The Rays' owners, led by Stuart Sternberg, argue that the team will never fully compete until it also has a stadium that produces the revenue needed to retain its good players and recruit top free agents, something the Rays now find extraordinarily difficult to do.
''We want to give major league baseball the best opportunity to thrive and survive in the region,'' Sternberg said in a statement. ''We have and will continue to do all we can to make that happen.''
Making that happen has been a complex and combative slog. Even during boom times, winning support for taxpayer-financed sports stadiums has been tough. But after years of a national recession and many one-sided stadium deals around the country, Foster has joined the growing list of lawmakers resisting owners, fans, businessmen and construction workers who say that new stadiums are needed to maintain a city's economic vitality and civic pride.
At least for now, Bud Selig, the commissioner of Major League Baseball, is unlikely to endorse a specific plan for the Rays. Last month, Selig said that there was no timetable for the Rays to get a new stadium and, for now, it is up to the team to find a solution.
''The local owner knows his market best,'' Selig said. ''He's just going to have to let me know what they should do and when they should do it and how they should do it.''
The Rays face an additional challenge: they play on Florida's west coast, which has been savaged by the housing crisis and where anti-tax fervor runs high. Many lawmakers and voters are also aware that the financing of the Marlins' stadium in Miami is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
''For people in Tampa to spend $500 million to make it easier to go to a game is ridiculous,'' Philip Porter, an economist at the University of South Florida, said of proposals for a new, publicly subsidized stadium. ''This is at a time when we're hurting for financial resources.''
Still, these economic and political realities have not stopped the calls for a new stadium, especially from advocates in Tampa. There, an assortment of political and business leaders argue that the team's dismal financial performance is directly connected to its current stadium and location, and that if the Rays do not find a new home, they will ultimately leave Florida.
''If they left our region, it would have a devastating effect on our community from a quality-of-life and economic perspective,'' said Ken Hagan, a Hillsborough County commissioner who has pushed to speak directly to the Rays. ''To stick our heads in the sand and hope the stadium issue resolves itself is shortsighted.''
Hagan and others argue that with fewer than a quarter-million residents, St. Petersburg is too small to be a major league city and does not have the concentration of companies needed to fill premium seats and suites. The population of Hillsborough County, home to Tampa and many of its suburbs, grew 23 percent in the last decade, while Pinellas County, where St. Petersburg is, shrank by half of 1 percent, according to census figures.
Moving the team to Tampa would put the Rays in a downtown hub that could lead to a blossoming of restaurants and shops, an upgrade compared with Tropicana Field, which is surrounded by parking lots, highways and undistinguished neighborhoods. Having the team on the east side of Tampa Bay might also draw fans from as far as Orlando.
''Mayor Foster has been a polarizing figure, and he's holding the team hostage,'' said Ryan Neubauer, the executive director of Build It Downtown Tampa, a group of fans and business leaders trying to uproot the Rays. ''Regional cooperation seems to be progressing nationally, but not here.''
Neubauer's group, which has sent a letter to Selig urging him to break the standoff, said a stadium could be built with taxpayers covering less than one-third of the cost. The group assumes that the team will contribute $200 million and hopes that Major League Baseball will provide $100 million. Another $90 million could be raised by selling the naming rights and personal seat licenses.
Tampa could also redirect up to $100 million from an existing tax and another $100 million could be raised through the sale of visas to foreigners. Money from a Community Investment Tax that helped pay for Raymond James Stadium, where the Buccaneers play, could also be tapped.
For now, these numbers are just an exercise because Foster continues to fend off would-be poachers. In the vacuum, supporters and detractors argue whether a new stadium is worth the cost. Porter said that the Rays drew well on a per-capita basis and that comparing them to the Yankees or the Boston Red Sox, who play in larger markets and have longer histories, was unfair.
''My business associates in Tampa complain about going to St. Petersburg, but during the playoffs, they didn't have any problem,'' said David Robbins, who has had season tickets since the Rays were formed, and like Porter, looks somewhat askance at the calls for a new stadium.
Meanwhile, the Rays continue to play well and draw sparingly. Through Tuesday night, they ranked 28th in baseball in home attendance, averaging just 19,434 fans a game. Only Oakland, desperate for a new location and a new stadium, and Cleveland are doing worse. Winning, it is clear, does not solve all ills.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); BASEBALL (90%); BUSINESS TORTS (66%); TORTS (50%)

PERSON: BILL FOSTER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



540 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: BAM's New Hall Offers Flexibility

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
For years the building at 321 Ashland Place in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn was dormant, its arches filled in with bricks, a relic of the time it served as a citadel for the Salvation Army.
Now the arches have been cleared, and the building is open for business, this time as the Brooklyn Academy of Music's newest theater -- the Richard B. Fisher Building -- to be unveiled Thursday. It includes a 250-seat auditorium, a rehearsal studio, classrooms, a roof deck and offices. The building is the first addition to the academy's campus since 1987 and a sign of growing momentum in the development of the area, designated as the Downtown Brooklyn Cultural District.
The Fisher building also represents a significant step forward for an organization that for years has craved a dedicated smaller stage for more experimental work. Theater executives say they wanted a place to present the kind of work that doesn't belong at the academy's 2,100-seat Howard Gilman Opera House or its 874-seat BAM Harvey Theater. The new space will feature artists who are just starting out or who want to try something risky that won't necessarily draw large crowds. 
Now the academy has precisely that: a flexible black-box space (actually it's painted blue) that can morph from a traditional proscenium to a thrust stage to a theater in the square or in the round. The theater will also enable the academy to respond better to the creative resurgence under way in Brooklyn.
''This is a game changer for BAM artistically,'' said Joseph V. Melillo, the Academy's executive producer, on a recent tour of the new building. ''There is a range of artists who have never worked at BAM who I've invited to work here. There are artists who would never have been given the opportunity to work in the Harvey or the opera house. They're too big. This is our difference: the flexibility of this environment.''
The Fisher building is one of several projects under way in the neighborhood. Theater for a New Audience, one of New York's premier Shakespearean troupes, is building a new home on Ashland Place; BRIC Arts Media Brooklyn and Urban Glass are renovating the Strand Theater on Fulton Street. Both are expected to open next year.
''For a long time people wondered if anything was happening,'' said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. ''You're now seeing the efforts of the past 10 years really beginning to bear fruit in quick succession.''
The Fisher building, along with the Gilman Opera House and the Harvey Theater, will be used for the academy's annual Next Wave Festival, which runs from September into January and includes music, dance and theater. Tickets for Next Wave events at the new building will be $20, to make the productions more accessible.
The festival will include lesser-known artists like Jonah Bokaer and Anthony McCall, who will present a site-specific dance and sculpture work, ''Eclipse,'' and the Zimbabwean choreographer Nora Chipaumire, who, with the American performer Okwui Okpokwasili, will present her dance piece ''Miriam.''
The first four Next Wave performances will each have different stage configurations. Aside from holding the festival the building is intended to become a community center of sorts, used by school groups and after-school programs, summer camps and subsidized rentals.
''We're trying to answer the question of how can a great, global cultural institution make a meaningful impact on its local community,'' said Karen Brooks Hopkins, the Brooklyn Academy's president. ''We think this is sort of a model of how a large institution can offer much more flexibility and service.''
The new space is a landmark 1928 Georgian revival building that is flanked by the Peter Sharp building, which holds the opera house, and the former Williamsburgh bank building (now condos). To protect its facade the academy had to augment the brick building with a seven-story addition that is set back from the street.
The top floor has an outdoor event space, with a retractable roof, plantings native to Brooklyn and views of Park Slope and the Statue of Liberty. And the two-level lobby is very 21st century: There is no box office, only a mobile kiosk at curtain time.
''They've never had a small flexible room in which they could present new ideas that are less expensive to produce and easier to explore,'' said Hugh Hardy, the project's architect. ''That was the core of the project.''
The $50 million building is named after the former chairman of the academy's endowment trust, whose widow, Jeanne Donovan Fisher, contributed $10 million. The city contributed $32 million, an amount that Kate D. Levin, the cultural affairs commissioner, said was indicative of the city's belief that culture is integral to economic development.
''The enormous renaissance that's taken place in Brooklyn has been driven largely by the identification of the borough with the artists who live and work there and the audiences who see work there,'' she said. ''So it makes sense to recognize that value through substantial public investment.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Seating at the new Richard B. Fisher Building, to be unveiled Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); FESTIVALS (76%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



541 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Canada Seeks Alternatives To Transport Oil Reserves

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
LONDON, Ontario -- As the United States continues to play political Ping-Pong with the fate of the Keystone XL pipeline, Canadian officials and companies are desperately seeking alternatives to get the country's nearly 200 billion barrels in oil reserves -- almost equal to that of Saudi Arabia -- to market from landlocked Alberta.
Oil companies complain that they are losing revenues from pipeline bottlenecks. So Canada is plunging ahead with plans to build more pipelines of its own.
To hasten development of new export routes, the Conservative government is streamlining permit processes by accelerating scheduled hearings and limiting public comment. The government has also threatened to revoke the charitable status of environmental groups that are challenging the projects. And Public Safety Canada, the equivalent of the United States Department of Homeland Security, has classified environmentalists as a potential source of domestic terrorism, adding them to a list that includes white supremacists. 
After President Obamarefused to grant a permit for Keystone XL in January, Stephen Harper, Canada's prime minister, indicated that he would never again be ''held hostage'' to United States politics, saying that some Americans saw his country as ''one giant national park.'' He said Canada would redirect oil that had been destined for Gulf Coast refineries to other countries, particularly China.
While Joe Oliver, Canada's minister of natural resources, said in an interview that the United States would remain Canada's ''most important customer,'' billions of barrels of oil that would have been refined and used in the United States are now poised to head elsewhere. Expansion of Canada's fast-growing oil-sands industry will be restricted by the lack of pipeline capacity before the decade's end, he said, which ''adds to the urgency of building them so that the resources will not be stranded.''
Three new pipeline network proposals -- two that call for heading west and the other east -- have been put forward. In May, Enbridge, a transporter of Canadian oil exports, announced a $3 billion plan called Eastern Access. It is seeking permission to build a new ''Northern Gateway Pipelines'' network, to bring 525,000 barrels a day to Canada's Pacific Coast. Kinder Morgan, a Texas-based energy company, said it will nearly double the capacity of an existing pipeline network along a different route.
Together, the new westward pipelines would carry more oil than Keystone XL would. But even with aggressive government backing, creating new pipelines may prove as difficult in Canada as it has been in the United States, though for different reasons.
Indigenous groups must be consulted if new pipelines cross their land. To gain coastal access, pipeline companies must also navigate the politics of some of the most environmentally conscious Canadian provinces, British Columbia and Quebec, where public opinion tends to be against both pipelines and further fossil fuel development.
Vancouver's City Council recently passed a motion requiring that pipeline companies take on 100 percent liability for the economic and environmental costs of a worst-case spill. Even though the federal government gives permissions for pipelines, such local maneuvering and lawsuits can cause severe delays.
''It's poetic justice that Vancouver, the birthplace of Greenpeace, stands between the last big oil deposit on Earth and the expanding markets in Asia,'' said Ben West of the Wilderness Committee, a consortium of environmental groups. ''I'd anticipate it won't get built for years.''
Mr. Obama said no to Keystone XL over issues of routing and insufficient environmental analysis, after a showdown with Congressional Republicans. No further action is expected before next year, although the pipeline builder, TransCanada, has reapplied for a permit.
But as pipeline companies cast about, the United States may again be drawn into the fray over routes in other parts of the country. The most likely eastern Canadian pipeline route would reverse existing pipelines through Ontario and Quebec, and then cross the border into Vermont, heading to a tanker port in Portland, Me. Such a project was proposed in 2008 but dropped during the recession.
A State Department spokesman said it had not fielded inquiries to revive the idea, but residents of the United States's Northeast are organizing against it. Without a reliable way out, Canadian oil often trades for $30 a barrel less than other crudes, said Todd Nogier, an Enbridge spokesman. The company estimates its proposed new westbound pipeline will increase Canada's gross domestic product by $270 billion over 30 years. Chinese companies have already invested in Canadian oil sands.
Environmentalists are not nearly as enthusiastic. One reason is that Canadian oil is extracted in a process that creates relatively high emissions of carbon dioxide. Also, oil from oil sands is exported as bitumen, a gritty paste that must be thinned with chemicals for transport.
The United States Pipeline Safety and Hazardous Materials Administration is studying whether diluted bitumen is more corrosive and prone to dangerous spills than conventional crude, thus requiring special regulation. The report is due next year. A 2010 spill of diluted bitumen from an Enbridge pipeline in Battle Creek, Mich., has cost over $720 million, and parts of the Kalamazoo River remain closed.
In Canada, environmental groups and opposition politicians say Mr. Harper's government is trampling on civil liberties and due process in its rush to get bitumen to market. Public hearings on proposed pipelines were expedited from the fall to the spring, leaving groups little time to organize and mount challenges to inadequate environmental analysis of the impacts, said Gillian McEachern of Environmental Defense, a Canadian environment group.
Ms. McEachern said that the application process for public comment was made so complicated that many with opposing views were shut out.
Last month here in London, a coalition that included environmentalists and members of aboriginal tribes disrupted what was to have been an obscure public hearing. Enbridge's Eastern Access expansion plan involves moving bitumen from Alberta east to Montreal by reversing the directional flow in older pipelines that now carry refined oil westward to Ontario. The hearing was solely about allowing a change of direction for a 100-mile pipeline segment.
''We sent a letter asking to speak and didn't even get a reply,'' said Wes Elliot, of the Six Nations indigenous group, one of several dozen ejected by the police for speaking without permission. The hearing was then closed to the public. On the curb outside, he said he worried about spills.
Under Canadian law, aboriginal groups must be consulted about pipeline projects that cross their lands. Enbridge has offered many tribes a 10 percent stake in its westward pipeline project; Graham White, an Enbridge spokesman, said about half have accepted.
Others in attendance said proposed bitumen pipelines would traverse vital agricultural aquifers -- concerns that tripped up Keystone XL in the United States.
''They say they're just tinkering with existing pipeline,'' said Steven Guilbeault, co-founder of Equiterre, a Canadian environmental group. ''We think they're doing it bit by bit so they won't attract attention like Keystone.''
Mr. White said there was currently no plan for a pipeline extending into the United States, but would not rule it out in the case of market demand.
Groups in Vermont and Maine are girding for a fight, concerned most about spills in Maine's Casco Bay, a center of fishing and tourism. Glen Brand, head of the Sierra Club's Maine chapter, said that a meeting on the issue in Bangor this spring attracted over 100 people. On both coasts of North America, residents object to a predicted manyfold increase in tanker traffic in harbors where people relocate to enjoy the pristine beauty. Simon Donner, a scientist at the University of British Columbia, sees the pipeline as symptomatic of the weakness of Canada's climate policy, and said he thinks the Canadian government is underestimating the opposition. ''People won't roll over on this issue,'' he said.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 19, 2012

 CORRECTION:
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A picture caption on Thursday with an article about Canada's quest for alternatives to the proposed Keystone XL pipeline to carry the country's billions of barrels in oil reserves to market from landlocked Alberta misstated, in some editions, the date of a hearing in Ontario that was shut down by environmental activists who oppose the pipeline. The hearing that several activists were shown attending was last month, not Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cortney Dakin, center, and other environmental activists who oppose pipelines, shut down a hearing in Ontario last month.
 Lawyers for Enbridge, a transporter of oil exports, listened to opponents of the company's pipeline plan at the hearing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL F. MCELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (90%); POLITICS (89%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); OIL SANDS (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CHARITIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); COASTAL AREAS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); TERRORISM (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%)

COMPANY: KINDER MORGAN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (56%)

TICKER: KMI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (51%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (51%)

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO, CANADA (89%); TEXAS, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (73%); ALBERTA, CANADA (73%); QUEBEC, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2012



542 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Aide to Giffords Is Elected To Finish Unexpired Term

BYLINE: By SARAH GARRECHT GASSEN and FERNANDA SANTOS; Sarah Garrecht Gassen reported from Tucson, and Fernanda Santos from Phoenix.

 BODY:
TUCSON -- Ron Barber, a survivor of the shooting rampage that brought a sudden end to Gabrielle Giffords's Congressional career, earned the right to finish her third term on Tuesday in a closely followed special election that served as a testing ground for the power of national issues in deciding competitive local races.
Ms. Giffords stood by Mr. Barber's side in a hotel ballroom here as the results were announced, planting a kiss on his forehead as Mr. Barber, 66, one of her former top aides, told the hundreds of people who had gathered for the celebration, ''Life takes unexpected turns, and here we are, thanks to you.'' 
He scored a tight yet decisive victory, drawing 52 percent of the vote to defeat his Republican rival, Jesse Kelly, by roughly seven percentage points.
His victory keeps southern Arizona's seat in Congress in the hands of Democrats at least until the end of Ms. Giffords's third term on Jan. 3. (Charlie Manolakis, the Green Party candidate, came in a distant third, with 2.3 percent.)
Mr. Kelly, 30, a Tea Party favorite who came close to defeating Ms. Giffords in 2010, conceded the race to Mr. Barber roughly three hours after polls closed. He then turned to his supporters and said: ''We executed the plan we wanted. The voters of southern Arizona did something different.''
Mr. Barber has reaffirmed his commitment to compete for a full term this fall, potentially facing Mr. Kelly again in November, though in a new district, Arizona's Second Congressional District, whose lines give Democrats a slight edge over Republicans. (Republicans have the edge in the district Mr. Barber was picked to represent Tuesday night, Arizona's Eighth.)
Regardless of opponent, the campaign is already shaping up to be a bruising partisan battle.
As soon as the results were announced on Tuesday, Representative Steve Israel of New York, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, set the stage for this and other competitive contests across the country, saying the debate is about ''Republican plans to drastically cut Medicare and privatize Social Security'' -- recurring themes in mailings and advertisements financed by political action groups that poured $2.5 million into the race.
Representative Pete Sessions of Texas, Mr. Israel's Republican counterpart, quickly answered back. In a statement, he said that while Mr. Barber had managed to ''conceal his support'' for President Obama and his agenda, ''which have made a bad economy worse in this state,'' he ''will not have that advantage in November,'' when he and Mr. Obama will both be on the ballot.
Mr. Barber, meanwhile, strove to steer the debate to other issues, like aid to returning veterans and border security. ''I say no to extreme politics,'' he said Tuesday night.
Ms. Giffords resigned in January, a year after she was shot in the head when a gunman opened fire outside a supermarket here, where she had been greeting constituents. Mr. Barber was among the 12 others wounded. Six people died.
She had come out to campaign for Mr. Barber in the last stretch of the race, appearing as guest of honor at an event on Saturday, then joining him as he greeted volunteers Sunday and Monday.
On Tuesday, Mr. Barber accompanied her to the polls in the morning. At night, once he was declared her successor, they stepped into the hotel ballroom side by side, drawing cheers and tears from the crowd.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gabrielle Giffords celebrated with Ron Barber on Tuesday night.
 Mr. Barber defeated Jesse Kelly, a Tea Party favorite. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (71%); BORDER CONTROL (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%)

PERSON: GABRIELLE GIFFORDS (93%); PETE SESSIONS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); STEVE ISRAEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (91%) ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



543 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Dimon on the Hill

 BODY:
Jamie Dimon, the head of JPMorgan Chase, told the Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday that he had been ''dead wrong'' to dismiss early news reports of his bank's reckless trading and that he was ''sorry'' for the resulting losses, variously estimated at $2 billion to $5 billion, and counting. He even ventured that too-big-too-fail banks have ''negatives,'' including ''you know, greed, arrogance, hubris, lack of attention to detail.''
In brief, he didn't say much that everyone didn't already know -- and he didn't give an inch on his fierce opposition to the tough financial regulations needed to ensure that banks' risky behavior does not again threaten to bring down the financial system. The senators did not press him nearly hard enough. Some Republicans even praised Mr. Dimon for his bank leadership and let him critique proposed financial regulations, while one Democrat sought his advice on how to fix the deficit. 
A month after the trading losses were first revealed, Mr. Dimon has yet to offer a thorough explanation for what happened. One of the big questions is whether the loser trades were really, as Mr. Dimon claims, hedges intended to protect against potential losses on other of the bank's positions, or proprietary trades -- speculative bets -- placed for profit.
Banks would be allowed to hedge but barred from pure speculation under the Volcker Rule, one of the Dodd-Frank reforms intended to curtail reckless trading. Mr. Dimon, who has been the most outspoken critic of the rule, said that his bank's trades started out as legitimate hedges, but even his nonexplanation of events indicates otherwise. In a crisis, like a global credit crunch, he said, the complex derivatives at the heart of the bank's bad trades were supposed to make a lot of money. So much for guarding against losses on underlying investments.
There were no questions at the hearing about Mr. Dimon's efforts -- and those of other banks -- to win an exemption from the Dodd-Frank rules for derivative trades made through foreign branches, affiliates or subsidiaries. The Chase trades that went bad were conducted in London, as were the bad bets by American International Group in the run-up to the financial crisis.
Regulators, notably Gary Gensler, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, have been adamant that new rules -- on transparency, monitoring, speculation limits, reporting, and business conduct standards -- must apply to all trades made or backed by federally insured banks, no matter where the transactions occur.
But with the banks still pushing back hard, he needs full-throated support from Capitol Hill to persuade the rest of his commission and other regulators to do what is needed. Unfortunately, not a single Banking Committee member pressed Mr. Dimon on the issue.
Why is that? Maybe their staffs did not prep them on the complexities. Another possible explanation is that, even now, senators from both parties are still in thrall to Mr. Dimon and the deep pockets of the banking industry.
Some Democratic senators did challenge Mr. Dimon, notably Robert Menendez of New Jersey and Jeff Merkley of Oregon. But until more lawmakers commit to the toughest possible rules, the nation's financial system will remain vulnerable to all of that ''greed, arrogance, hubris, lack of attention to detail'' that Mr. Dimon acknowledges, even as he resists the rules that would curb it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); FUTURES (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



544 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: With Dimon's Halo Atilt, Blankfein of Goldman Sachs Looks More Like a Darling

BYLINE: By SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
CHICAGO - There may be an opening for least-hated banker in America, and Lloyd C. Blankfein seems interested in applying.
On Wednesday, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase and long Wall Street's fair-haired boy, appeared before a Congressional panel to try to explain how his bank lost at least $3 billion on a trade he has admitted never should have been placed.
At the same time, hundreds of miles away, Mr. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, was speaking to a much friendlier crowd at the Economic Club of Chicago. That's a bit of a turnaround from several years ago, when Mr. Blankfein, who had become the whipping boy for angry lawmakers in the wake of the financial crisis, rarely made such appearances while Mr. Dimon enjoyed public favor as the head of a bank that had emerged from the crisis relatively unscathed. 
Mr. Blankfein's speaking engagement came just a day after he appeared on the TV talk show ''Morning Joe'' with Warren E. Buffett. The two were together to talk up Goldman's 10,000 Small Businesses program, which offers business education, mentoring and access to capital.
A relaxed Mr. Blankfein was beaming as he extolled the virtues of the program on a sunny terrace overlooking the Chicago River. ''Lloyd, thank you so much for what you guys have done,'' the show co-host, Joe Scarborough, gushed as the segment ended.
The recent public emergence of Mr. Blankfein has taken many Wall Street insiders by surprise - and raised questions about whether the 57-year-old executive, who just celebrated his sixth year at the helm of the company, is now managing his image with an eye to his legacy.
Mark Arena, the former head of communications at UBS Americas, gave Goldman high marks for moving to improve its public profile, which has included advertising in Politico's Morning Money newsletter and opening a Twitter account for corporate news. But he added that Mr. Blankfein, who is still very much associated with the financial crisis, might not be the perfect frontman.
''Tired faces equal tired news,'' said Mr. Arena, now the founding partner of the PR Verdict, a Web site and newsletter. ''His card is marked, perhaps unfairly, but it is marked.''
Instead, Goldman and other companies trying to recover from the financial crisis may be better served by tapping several executives to speak on behalf of the company, dispersing the spotlight, he said.
''Part of the problem with financial services companies is they did what was in vogue years ago and they made the C.E.O. a star. There are pluses and minuses, and big minuses when the organization gets into trouble,'' he said.
Mr. Blankfein joked on Wednesday that a contest for least-hated banker was a race to the bottom and dismissed suggestions he was not long for his job. ''I am 57,'' he said, laughing. ''What am I going to do with the other 60 years of my life?''
He added that most of his predecessors had either gone into government or died on the job. ''I'd say the government probably isn't going to call me. So that leaves staying forever and dying at my desk.''
In some ways Mr. Blankfein is a great pitchman. He is a salesman by trade; he got his start at Goldman selling gold. And on Wednesday he said the banter that came along with being in the public eye ''suits him.'' ''I am not shy,'' he said with a laugh.
The executive is also known for his sharp intellect and self-deprecating wit, something that typically plays wells with audiences. He drew laughs on Wednesday recalling the day in 2006 when Henry M. Paulson Jr. called to tell Mr. Blankfein that he was leaving Goldman to become Treasury secretary. ''Being Hank. there wasn't a lot of conversation about me,'' he said. ''I think he forgot my name.''
But at times he can be his own worst enemy. Mr. Blankfein in 2009 told The Times of London in an interview that he was doing ''God's work.'' The company later said it was merely a joke, but the comment drew sharp criticism.
So far Mr. Blankfein's re-entry into the public eye has been gaffe-free. At the company's annual shareholder meeting in May, a nun from the Sisters of Charity of New York encouraged Goldman to give more disclosure on its structured products. Mr. Blankfein praised the organization's work on this issue, and then jokingly suggested that Goldman should hire her. The moment was rife with potential pitfalls.
''I don't think we can outbid your current boss,'' he replied, a subtle reference to his ''God's work'' comment. He then was careful to note that he did not use her boss's name in his response.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Goldman's chief, Lloyd Blankfein, once a whipping boy for lawmakers, has been reclaiming the spotlight with a softer side. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW KELLY/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (93%); JAMES DIMON (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (89%) ILLINOIS, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



545 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WHITE HOUSE MEMO; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Adding a Fresh Metaphor to a Familiar Campaign Message

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Michael Barbaro contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Appearing before 500 cheering fans at a fund-raiser at the Hyatt Regency in Baltimore on Tuesday, President Obama offered up a critique of his Republican opponents certain to strike a chord with anyone who had ever gotten stuck with the bill for an expensive restaurant.
When Mitt Romney and other Republicans carp about the dismal economy without mentioning that Mr. Obama inherited a $1 trillion deficit from his Republican predecessor, ''it's like somebody goes to a restaurant, orders a big steak dinner, martini, all that stuff,'' Mr. Obama said, winding up to his punch line as his audience tittered. ''And then, just as you're sitting down, they leave, and accuse you of running up the tab!''
''That's what they do!'' the president said, as the Democratic Party faithful crammed into the ballroom applauded, hooted and hollered. ''I am not making this up!'' 
It was the latest iteration of a campaign message -- call it the Barack Obama Defensive Offensive -- which the president has been making for a few years now. And while it always works with partisan Democratic audiences that are filled with the people who stand in line in the rain for hours to pay money to hear Mr. Obama speak, the big question now -- three years into his administration, with the president fighting for his political life -- is whether it can work in a re-election campaign that is taking place during an anemic economic recovery with a stubborn jobless rate.
Mr. Obama has a struggle on his hands as he talks about the economy, as he is set to do again Thursday in a speech in Cleveland which his advisers say will sharply delineate the differences between the president and Mr. Romney. The president will seek to present this year's election as a stark choice between a Democratic vision of investing in infrastructure and programs that help the American middle class versus what he will characterize as an already-tried-and-failed Republican vision that relies on trickle-down benefits that come from aiding the rich.
''I want you all to pay attention over the next five months and see if they're offering a single thing that they did not try when they were in charge, because you won't see it,'' Mr. Obama told the crowd on Tuesday night at a Philadelphia fund-raiser. ''It will be the same stuff. The same okey-dokey.''
But, as the furor created last week over Mr. Obama's remark that the private sector is ''doing fine'' demonstrated, the president must walk a tightrope whenever he talks about the economy.
He wants to show how the steps that he has taken over the past three years -- the stimulus, the auto bailout -- have helped to bring the economy out of the trough that greeted him on his inauguration. But he cannot go too far in sounding optimistic -- as he did with the ''doing fine'' business last week -- or he sounds clueless and out of touch.
At the same time, Mr. Obama does not want to sound too grim either, lest he find himself in Jimmy Carter territory circa 1979-80, when Mr. Carter's talk of economic malaise helped sink his re-election.
So Mr. Obama ends up falling back -- again and again -- on the Barack Obama Defensive Offensive -- which largely means, blame the Republicans. And while that strategy is not necessarily doomed to fail -- polls show far more Americans still blame President George W. Bush for the economic decline than blame Mr. Obama -- it also runs the danger of making Mr. Obama come across as a crybaby, not to mention opening him up to ridicule from the right.
Mr. Romney, for one, does not intend to let the charge go unanswered.
''Words are cheap, and the record of an individual is the basis upon which you determine whether they should continue to hold on to their job,'' Mr. Romney told a group of business leaders in Washington on Wednesday. ''The record is that we have 23 million Americans that are out of work, or stopped looking for work, or underemployed. That is a compelling and a sad statistic.''
Mr. Romney called Mr. Obama's record ''the most anti-investment, anti-business, antijobs series of policies in modern American history,'' adding that Mr. Obama is ''not responsible for whatever improvement we might be seeing.''
It is unclear yet whether American voters will accept Mr. Romney's argument, particularly given that for all tepidness of the American economy, this country is in far better shape after the 2008-09 global economic crisis than its counterparts around the globe, particularly Europe.
''I was there at the time, we were hemorrhaging 700,000 jobs a month,'' said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington who served as an adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''It's absolutely the case that job growth is too slow,'' Mr. Bernstein said, ''but it's growth.''
That is the crux of where Mr. Obama's argument on the economy resides. He must remind people how things were when he took office, his advisers say. He must show that specific steps he took, like the stimulus plan, like his auto bailout, have helped to stem job loss.
And finally, since ''everyone recognizes that this election is about choice,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, Mr. Obama ''needs to draw the contrast very clearly, that on the one hand the president's proposal is to continue to invest in our future, whereas the Romney plan is to turn back to the trickle-down economics of the Bush era.''
But Mr. Obama already may have had a laboratory experiment on how well that third point works: the 2010 midterm Congressional elections. During the 2010 campaign, the Barack Obama Defensive Offensive was a similar version to the martini-steak-dinner one he used in Baltimore on Tuesday.
Except then, the metaphor was car-in-ditch. (''You had a group of folks who drove the economy, drove the country, drove our car into the ditch,'' the president said, at one campaign stop after another. That was usually followed by a long windup of how the Democrats pushed the car out of the ditch while the Republicans stood to the side drinking Slurpees and then asked for the keys back, leading to Mr. Obama's punch line: ''Well, you can't have the keys back! You don't know how to drive! You got us into the ditch!'')
Like the crowd in Baltimore, most of the Democrats on the campaign stump in 2010 cheered wildly at car-in-ditch. But for Mr. Obama, the hope now is that independent and moderate American voters will cheer, too -- something they did not do in 2010.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The president, arriving in Philadelphia on Tuesday, ends up falling back -- again and again -- on the Barack Obama Defensive Offensive -- which means, essentially, blame the Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



546 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1320 words

HEADLINE: Writing Her Own Dress Code

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
IN an interview on Fox News last month, Ann Romney confided that on policy issues she and her husband don't always share the same views. ''I don't think we're ever exactly on the same page 100 percent,'' Mrs. Romney said.
To judge by appearances, that statement covered her wardrobe as well. Compared with Mitt Romney, who was buttoned up in a politely striped shirt, Mrs. Romney, in an exuberantly colorful hibiscus-patterned blouse, seemed positively unzipped, her garb an assertion, however oblique, that in matters of style, as in matters of state, she keeps her own counsel.
Wearing breezy wrap dresses, form-fitting sheaths or mismatched prints that cautiously flirt with runway trends, Mrs. Romney, a seemingly traditional candidate's helpmeet, nonetheless turns her back now and then on the nondescript cardigans and milk-carton suits that are the standard camouflage of women on the stump. 
''She has successfully avoided the Stepford-wife look of red suits and helmet hair adopted by some presidential candidates' spouses,'' said Christine K. Jahnke, a media trainer who advised Hillary Rodham Clinton during her presidential campaign. ''In some of the things she wears, she is quite contemporary.''
Her look was rarely more of-the-moment than on ''CBS This Morning'' last month, when Mrs. Romney wore a $990 Reed Krakoff blouse emblazoned with an exotic bird that winged its way toward her right breast. That turnout provoked criticism, with viewers chiding Mrs. Romney as insensitive to the economic struggles of ordinary Americans and, for that matter, to the prickly issue of her husband's personal wealth. Others, predictably, wrung their hands, bemoaning her questionable fashion sense.
Stylish or not, the blouse may have revealed a deeper agenda. ''It was a real step out for her,'' said Taylor Marsh, a political analyst and the author of ''The Hillary Effect: Politics, Sexism and the Destiny of Loss.'' ''I hadn't seen her do something so individual. I really think she was saying: 'This is who I am. I like this shirt. So take your best shot.' ''
To some observers, such a brash departure from convention has positioned Mrs. Romney as a standard-bearer for authenticity, a woman determined (or at any rate not reluctant) to use fashion, when the time seems right, to counter her husband's image.
''Her relaxed look is probably deliberate,'' said Sandy Dumont, an image consultant in Norfolk, Va. ''She balances him out because he's such a stiff thing. She seems to want to play to that.''
Like the family snapshots she brandishes, and her candor about her multiple sclerosis, Mrs. Romney may be using her wardrobe as a humanizing agent. ''Whether she is doing this unconsciously or consciously, it's a definite political tool,'' said Siobhan Bennett, the president of the Women's Campaign Fund, a bipartisan group that seeks to have women elected. ''It remains to be seen how well she can wield it.''
Mrs. Romney, who did not respond to requests to be interviewed for this article, has clearly come a long way from the pampered princess described in a Boston Globe article in 1994, a portrait of perfect domestic complacency who said she never argued with her husband and fretted that at 117 pounds, ''I'm not as thin as I should be.''
Experience, however, has tempered her. At 63, she is not the same woman who posed with Mr. Romney in 1960, the very image of the Breck girl in a prim sleeveless dress with a Peter Pan collar, or who, at a clambake near the Harvard campus in the early 1970s, wore a sweater that matched her husband's -- as if, as Howard Brownstein, a Romney classmate, recalled, she was from ''out on the prairies.''
In recent months, and during more than 200 public appearances for her husband's campaign, she has stepped up her game, demonstrating a more than peripheral awareness of fashion, if not a lock-step compliance with its unspoken codes.
''There is a sophisticated Ann in there who may be playing that down to appear more girl-next-door,'' said Sharon Graubard, a senior executive with Stylesight, a trend-forecasting firm in New York. Unlike Michelle Obama, whose fashion choices have been guided by specialists, Mrs. Romney is not known to work with a stylist. Nor has a wardrobe consultant stepped up to take credit for her look.
''I'm not seeing the hand of a stylist,'' Ms. Graubard said. ''That in itself makes her human and likable.''
Claudia Bushman, an adjunct professor in the school of religion at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, Calif., has known Mrs. Romney since they belonged to the same Boston-area Mormon stake in the 1980s. She recalled encountering her in a ladies' room a few years ago and remarking that she had gone blond. ''She responded that once you turn gray, it's easier to be blond than brunet,'' Ms. Bushman recalled. ''I was struck at the time by the practicality of her remark, no vanity of any kind.''
Lee Gaston, the owner of Bessie Blue, a boutique in Belmont, Mass., where Mrs. Romney has shopped, said that she leans toward subtle colors and patterns, light jeans and blouses, but pulls them together adventurously. ''She looks effortless, though a lot of thought and effort may have gone into the look,'' Ms. Gaston said.
WHETHER out of practical concerns or political astuteness, Mrs. Romney has yet to acknowledge a fondness for designer labels, her reticence on the subject matched only by that of Seventh Avenue itself. Requests for interviews about her look were declined, or ignored, by Diane von Furstenberg, Jason Wu, Oscar de la Renta and Michael Kors, among others.
With rare exceptions, her clothes and accessories are not easily identifiable. Since her husband announced his candidacy last June, she has worn what seemed to be a Diane von Furstenberg wrap dress in Salt Lake City, and a powder pink belt as wide as a corset on ''World News With Diane Sawyer.'' At a campaign event in Illinois, when a little girl asked if her wristwatch was real, Mrs. Romney, who often wears a Michael Kors Rolex look-alike, replied: ''Well, it's real plastic. But it's a real watch, too.''
Not that she is blind to the allure of a coveted label. On the stump in New Hampshire in December, she took up Mr. Romney's offer to buy her a $350 North Face white stadium coat for Christmas. She modeled the coat in front of the entire press corps unhesitantly.
Mrs. Romney eschews sprays of diamonds like those that Callista Gingrich wears at her throat, though in recent appearances she has rarely been seen without a double strand of berry-size pearls reminiscent of no one so much as Barbara Bush. A patrician touch at odds with her upgraded Everywoman image, it is one in a string of inconsistencies that has sometimes bewildered self-appointed critics.
''She is all over the map,'' said Lisa A. Kline, the fashion stylist responsible for ''Wardrobegate,'' as Sarah Palin's $150,000-plus fashion makeover became known. ''From a stylist's perspective, she needs to have a signature consistent with her role.''
For ABCNews.com last week, Ms. Kline put together a campaign wardrobe, as if she were dressing Mrs. Romney, mixing modest prints, tweed blazers, camel-tone knits and an unstructured jacket in cashmere to give her a harmonious look that doesn't shout ''designer.''
''No one has to know if she's wearing a J. Crew camel blazer or an Armani camel blazer,'' Ms. Kline said. ''A camel blazer is a camel blazer. It's an elegant way of saying, 'I'm the cooler half.' ''
That is probably not news to Mrs. Romney, who already owns at least one such item and whose sense of fashion's impact can be keen. She has been quick to claim credit for dressing her husband in Gap jeans and Levi's. In South Carolina last January, she approached a group of reporters. ''Shall I ask him why he doesn't wear his skinny jeans anymore?'' she said playfully, then turned to her husband, teasing, ''What happened to your skinny jeans?''
Mr. Romney mutely stepped away.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TAKE A LOOK: Ann Romney, with her husband, Mitt, in January in Miami, left, and in Greenville, S.C., right, appears willing to use fashion to counter her husband's buttoned-up image. Center, the $990 Reed Krakoff blouse she wore last month drew criticism. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EMMANUEL DUNAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES
JEFF NEIRA/CBS, VIA GETTY IMAGES)(E1)
SOLO EFFORT: Ann Romney, in Salt Lake City last June, left, and in Novi, Mich., in February, has demonstrated an increasing awareness of fashion but is not known to work with a stylist. ''That in itself makes her human and likable,'' an observer said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GEORGE FREY/GETTY IMAGES
 BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES)(E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TRENDS (76%); POLITICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); WRITERS (61%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (50%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (59%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



547 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: 'Proud' JPMorgan Chief Apologizes

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS; Ben Protess reported from Washington, and Michael J. de la Merced from New York. Jessica Silver-Greenberg contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- JPMorgan Chase is ''likely'' to try to recover compensation from executives responsible for a recent multibillion-dollar trading blowup, according to Jamie Dimon, the bank's chief executive. 
In testimony on Wednesday before the Senate Banking Committee, Mr. Dimon assured lawmakers that the bank's board was investigating the trading losses at the chief investment office. Once the investigation is complete, he said, the bank will decide whose paychecks to pursue.
''When the board finishes the review, you can expect we'll take proper corrective action,'' the executive told a packed hearing room, shortly after a parade of protesters jeered the chief executive. ''There's likely to be clawbacks.''
Mr. Dimon did not name the executives facing scrutiny, but one potential target is Ina Drew, the head of the chief investment unit.
Ms. Drew, who resigned from the bank last month, earned about $14 million last year, making her among the bank's highest-paid employees.
JPMorgan, Mr. Dimon said, has broad authority to recoup pay. The bank, he said, can claw back compensation for ''bad judgment'' and other missteps.
''It's pretty extensive the ability to claw back,'' he said.
The revelation emerged from a hearing of more than two hours on Wednesday that featured Mr. Dimon's first Congressional testimony since the bank disclosed the trading loss in May. He is also scheduled to testify next week before the House Financial Services Committee, which will host the final in a series of hearings into the trading losses.
On Wednesday, Mr. Dimon received a warm welcome from Republican lawmakers, suggesting that his status as Washington's favorite banker remains intact. Some Republicans praised JPMorgan for navigating the financial crisis better than other Wall Street firms, and even sought Mr. Dimon's advice on fixing the economy.
The chief executive, faced with more challenging questions from Democrats about gaps in risk management and his own leadership, both apologized for the mishap and defiantly defended his bank and its reputation.
''We're doing what a bank is supposed to do,'' he said, adding that he was proud of the bank.
Mr. Dimon acknowledged, however, that his own efforts to play down the threat of the trade in April were ''dead wrong.''
''It changed into something I cannot publicly defend,'' he said.
The JPMorgan chief disclosed on Wednesday for the first time that internal risk alarms were set off in March. The red flags came weeks before he told analysts that concerns about the chief investment office were a ''complete tempest in a teapot,'' raising new questions about Mr. Dimon's disclosures.
Despite his focus on clawing back compensation, Mr. Dimon offered a loose defense of the bank's pay packages. He dismissed concerns that outsize pay packages prompted the trading blunder, which has already cost the bank at least $3 billion.
''Did the pay structure at the C.I.O. incentivize risky behavior?'' asked Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who leads the banking committee.
Mr. Dimon said, ''I don't believe that the compensation made the problem worse.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamie Dimon, head of JPMorgan, testifying on Capitol Hill. (B1)
 Protesters behind Jamie Dimon, left, were removed ahead of his testimony Wednesday before the Senate Banking Committee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



548 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: As Putin Returns and Syria Boils, U.S.-Russia Ties Sour

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Ellen Barry contributed reporting from Moscow, and Thom Shanker from Washington.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Sitting beside President Obama this spring, the president of Russia gushed that ''these were perhaps the best three years of relations between Russia and the United States over the last decade.'' Two and a half months later, those halcyon days of friendship look like a distant memory.
Gone is Dmitri A. Medvedev, the optimistic president who collaborated with Mr. Obama and celebrated their partnership in March. In his place is Vladimir V. Putin, the grim former K.G.B. colonel whose return to the Kremlin has ushered in a frostier relationship freighted by an impasse over Syria and complicated by fractious domestic politics in both countries.
The back-and-forth this week over Russian support for Syria's government as it tries to crush an uprising underscored the limits of Mr. Obama's ability to ''reset'' ties with Moscow. He signed an arms control treaty with Mr. Medvedev, expanded supply lines to Afghanistan through Russian territory, secured Moscow's support for sanctions on Iran and helped bring Russia into the World Trade Organization. But officials in both capitals noted this week that the two countries still operated on fundamentally different sets of values and interests. 
The souring relations come as Mr. Obama and Mr. Putin are preparing to meet for the first time as presidents next week on the sidelines of a summit meeting in Mexico. With Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential candidate, saying Wednesday that Mr. Obama's Russia policy ''has clearly failed,'' and Mr. Putin stoking anti-American sentiment in response to street protests in Moscow, the Mexico meeting may be a test of whether the reset has run its course.
''We were already at a place with the Russians where we were about to move to a new phase,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser to Mr. Obama. ''A lot of this is can we continue to build on the initial steps we've taken with the Russians even as we've had differences emerge, most notably on Syria.''
Others see the situation more pessimistically. ''There is a crisis in the Russian-American relationship,'' said Aleksei K. Pushkov, the hawkish head of Russia's parliamentary foreign affairs committee. ''It is a crisis when the sides have to balance their interests but they cannot do so because their interests diverge. It is developing into some kind of long-term mistrust.''
Signs of that divergence seem increasingly pronounced lately, despite private reassurances from Mr. Putin that he wants to deepen ties. Michael A. McFaul, a former Russia adviser to Mr. Obama, has been subjected to an unusual campaign of public harassment since arriving in Moscow as ambassador. A Russian general threatened pre-emptive strikes against American missile defense sites in Poland in the event of a crisis. Mr. Putin has cracked down on demonstrations while blaming Americans for them, and he skipped the Group of 8 summit meeting hosted by Mr. Obama last month.
''The reset failed to change the underlying suspicion and distrust of America shared by a majority of Russians as well as Putin himself,'' said Masha Lipman, an analyst at the Carnegie Moscow Center. ''America is seen as a threat, an agent seeking to undermine Russia, to weaken it, to do harm to it. Russia always has to be on the alert, on the defensive.''
Adding to the tension have been moves in Congress to block visas and freeze assets of Russians implicated in human rights abuses. The bipartisan legislation, named for Sergei L. Magnitsky, a lawyer whose corruption investigation led to his death in prison, passed a House committee last week and will be taken up by a Senate panel next week.
''I see this as part of an effort to make clear the expected international conduct as it relates to human rights,'' said Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, a Maryland Democrat sponsoring the legislation. ''This is what friends do. We point out when you need to do better.''
The Obama administration, seeking to avoid a rupture, opposes the bill on the grounds that the State Department has already banned visas for Russians implicated in Mr. Magnitsky's death.
Instead, the administration is highlighting legislation introduced on Tuesday to repeal decades-old trade restrictions on Russia known as Jackson-Vanik.
On Tuesday, hours after Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton accused Russia of supplying attack helicopters to Syria, she sent an under secretary of state, Wendy Sherman, to a Russia Day reception at the Russian Embassy in Washington, where she pointed to the proposed Jackson-Vanik repeal and talked about ''mutual respect,'' with no explicit mention of Syria.
The complication for Mr. Obama is that lawmakers like Mr. Cardin and Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, want to link the Jackson-Vanik repeal to the Magnitsky legislation, angering Russian officials, who were shocked to learn that the White House apparently cannot block it. Mr. Putin was already upset at even the administration's mild criticism of his domestic crackdown; Mr. Pushkov said the Kremlin viewed that to ''not be very loyal.''
Mr. Obama is focusing on enlisting Russia's help on issues like stopping Iran from building nuclear weapons. The next round of talks between Iran and international powers opens in Moscow next week, and the administration hopes that Russia's role as host will prompt it to use its influence with Tehran to extract more concessions.
One of the biggest successes of the reset, however, has also made the United States more dependent on Russia. With Pakistan cutting off supply lines to Afghanistan, the so-called northern distribution network through Russia is the primary reinforcement route for America's war on the Taliban.
''We need more from them than they need from us at the moment,'' said Angela E. Stent, director of Russian studies at Georgetown University. The Russians are less invested than Mr. Obama in the notion of a reset. ''They look at that as an American course correction. But it's not their policy, it's an American policy,'' Ms. Stent said.
Publicly, the administration rejects any connection between Syria and the Afghan supply route. But, privately, officials worry that Russia will try to use the leverage provided by the supply route.
So far, Russian officials have reassured their American counterparts that they will not. If anything, Moscow worries that the United States is pulling out of Afghanistan too soon, fearing a security collapse near Russia's southern flank.
For Mr. Obama, who considers improved ties with Russia one of his signature accomplishments, the question is whether the current friction is temporary or is a sign that the reset has accomplished what it can.
The coming meeting in Los Cabos, Mexico, could prove uncomfortable for Mr. Obama. The first time the two men met, in July 2009, when Mr. Putin was prime minister, Mr. Putin delivered an hourlong harangue about the United States.
''The president's going to be yearning for the days of meetings with Dima,'' said David J. Kramer, an official in the George W. Bush administration, using Mr. Medvedev's nickname. ''It probably won't be a pretty meeting. And it shouldn't be a pretty meeting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of the Free Syrian Army protesting in Homs last month against Syrian and Russian leaders, including President Bashar al-Assad and Foreign Minister Sergey V. Lavrov. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT KING/POLARIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); POLAND (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



549 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo: A Comeback in Virginia, Shadowed by a Stumble

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
Political redemption, it seems, is almost never completely out of reach.
Six years ago, after losing his Virginia Senate seat and handing control of the chamber to Democrats, George Allen hinted that he could see a day when the bitterness and embarrassment of his defeat would no longer loom so large.
''Sometimes winds - political or otherwise - can blow the leaves off branches and even break limbs,'' a reflective Mr. Allen said in November 2006. ''But a deep-rooted tree will stand, stay standing,'' and ''will regrow in the next season.''
That next season began Tuesday, when Mr. Allen officially claimed the nomination of the Republican Party to regain his Senate seat. His former rival, James Webb, announced his retirement after just one term, and now Mr. Allen is one difficult election away from regaining what he lost. 
He may or may not achieve that goal. He faces Tim Kaine, a popular ex-governor of the commonwealth, in a race that will draw huge resources from both parties. Mr. Allen's fortunes are tied to those of Mitt Romney in the state; political observers on both sides predict that if Mr. Romney, the Republican presidential hopeful, wins Virginia, so will Mr. Allen.
But regardless of the outcome on Nov. 6, the Republican Party's willingness to once again embrace Mr. Allen stands as a testament to short memories, a willingness to forgive and the potent desire to win.
Mr. Allen was once a national star in the Republican Party with White House ambitions. But he became the political victim of a viral Internet video when, at a campaign stop, he called a young man of Indian descent a ''macaca,'' a term that can refer to monkeys. Mr. Webb's campaign eagerly pointed out the remark, and the furor over what Mr. Allen meant lasted for weeks.
Mr. Allen and his team fumbled the response, alternately accusing the media of a witch hunt and apologizing for any offense. Longtime supporters stuck by him, but had long since given the maximum they could contribute for Mr. Allen's presidential hopes. His fund-raising dried up amid questions about ethnic insensitivities.
But while the political history of Mr. Allen's 2006 loss is often attributed simply to that one phrase, it was much more than that.
Questions about Mr. Allen's relationship to the black community were given new life by the controversy over his remarks. Stories about the Confederate flag he embraced in high school were written again. He once again had to defend the noose he had displayed in his law office - a Western lasso, he said, not a hateful symbol.
Even more damaging were accusations - suddenly public - that Mr. Allen had used racial epithets against African-Americans while he was in college. At one point, Mr. Allen gathered a group of African-American ministers behind him for a news conference at which he angrily denied using the epithets.
And in the midst of it all was the odd revelation of Mr. Allen's Jewish heritage, the knowledge of which Mr. Allen discovered from his elderly mother after reporters pressed for more information about his background.
Asked about his Jewish ancestry at a debate, Mr. Allen angrily accused the reporter of ''making aspersions.'' But a few days earlier, his mother had finally revealed the truth she had been hiding from her children for decades: that she was brought up Jewish in North Africa after World War II and hid the fact when she moved back to the United States.
''We sat across the table and he said, 'Mom, there's a rumor that Pop-pop and Mom-mom were Jewish and so were you,''' Henrietta Allen recalled her son asking. Having received her answer, Mr. Allen later issued a statement acknowledging and embracing his Jewish roots.
Mr. Allen's campaign against Mr. Webb hit back, running ads about an article titled ''Women Can't Fight,'' that Mr. Webb had written about his days at the Naval Academy. In one passage, Mr. Webb had recalled his dorms there as ''a horny woman's dream.''
But it was not enough for Mr. Allen, who lost that year by about 9,000 votes out of about 2.3 million cast.
For nearly five years after his loss, Mr. Allen disappeared from Virginia's political scene, nursing his wounds and, aides promised, planning his eventual return to public service. On Tuesday, Mr. Allen easily swept aside three Republican challengers.
''Virginians are fired up, and they're ready for America's comeback,'' Mr. Allen told a small crowd near Richmond on Tuesday night.
Standing with him was Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, whose political career in Virginia has taken off nationally even as Mr. Allen's stalled. Standing with him was Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, whose political career in Virginia has taken off nationally even as Mr. Allen's stalled. Ken Cuccinelli, the state's Republican attorney general, endorsed Mr. Allen on Wednesday, saying his record ''towers above Tim Kaine's.'' Their support for Mr. Allen is an indication of how much the Republican establishment has moved past Mr. Allen's 2006 campaign.
Now, the question is whether the voters of the state have moved on, too.
The Republican primary on Tuesday was a low-turnout affair, a small and partisan slice of the state's voting population. Election Day in five months will be a broader test of the electorate's willingness to forgive and forget.
So far, Mr. Kaine's campaign has mostly stayed away from the controversies that dogged Mr. Allen's 2006 campaign, preferring to try and keep the focus on economic concerns that voters say are most important.
But aides do not promise that Mr. Kaine will never bring them up. During an early debate last year in Richmond, Mr. Kaine chided Mr. Allen for the ''macaca'' moment.
''There was no mistake about what those words meant,'' Mr. Kaine said at the debate, which was hosted by The Associated Press. ''It's part of the divisive politics that we've got to put behind in this country.''
If the race between Mr. Kaine and Mr. Allen is close toward the end - and most advisers to the candidates believe it will be - there could be pressure on Mr. Kaine to revive the controversies in television commercials. Such a move could tip the scale in Mr. Kaine's favor, or it could backfire.
Mr. Allen is the son of George Allen, the famed former coach of the Washington Redskins football team. The son favors cowboy boots and often tosses footballs with nearby staff members. On the day he conceded in 2006, he seemed eager to play ball again.
''Teammates, fellow patriots,'' he said, ''stay strong and stand strong for freedom!''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: George Allen with his wife, Susan, and daughter Tyler after winning the Republican primary for senator on Tuesday. Top left, Mr. Allen conceding in 2006 to Jim Webb, who is not seeking re-election. Mr. Allen will face former Gov. Tim Kaine in the fall. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HELBER/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MICHAEL TEMCHINE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FUNDRAISING (68%); RACE & RACISM (68%); INTERNET VIDEO (63%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (60%)

PERSON: TIM KAINE (92%); JIM WEBB (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



550 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: How Drones Help Al Qaeda

BYLINE: By IBRAHIM MOTHANA. 
Ibrahim Mothana, a writer and activist, is a co-founder of the Watan Party.

 BODY:
Sana, Yemen
''DEAR OBAMA, when a U.S. drone missile kills a child in Yemen, the father will go to war with you, guaranteed. Nothing to do with Al Qaeda,'' a Yemeni lawyer warned on Twitter last month. President Obama should keep this message in mind before ordering more drone strikes like Wednesday's, which local officials say killed 27 people, or the May 15 strike that killed at least eight Yemeni civilians.
Drone strikes are causing more and more Yemenis to hate America and join radical militants; they are not driven by ideology but rather by a sense of revenge and despair. Robert Grenier, the former head of the C.I.A.'s counterterrorism center, has warned that the American drone program in Yemen risks turning the country into a safe haven for Al Qaeda like the tribal areas of Pakistan -- ''the Arabian equivalent of Waziristan.'' 
Anti-Americanism is far less prevalent in Yemen than in Pakistan. But rather than winning the hearts and minds of Yemeni civilians, America is alienating them by killing their relatives and friends. Indeed, the drone program is leading to the Talibanization of vast tribal areas and the radicalization of people who could otherwise be America's allies in the fight against terrorism in Yemen.
The first known drone strike in Yemen to be authorized by Mr. Obama, in late 2009, left 14 women and 21 children dead in the southern town of al-Majala, according to a parliamentary report. Only one of the dozens killed was identified as having strong Qaeda connections.
Misleading intelligence has also led to disastrous strikes with major political and economic consequences. An American drone strike in May 2010 killed Jabir al-Shabwani, a prominent sheik and the deputy governor of Marib Province. The strike had dire repercussions for Yemen's economy. The slain sheik's tribe attacked the country's main pipeline in revenge. With 70 percent of the country's budget dependent on oil exports, Yemen lost over $1 billion. This strike also erased years of progress and trust-building with tribes who considered it a betrayal given their role in fighting Al Qaeda in their areas.
Yemeni tribes are generally quite pragmatic and are by no means a default option for radical religious groups seeking a safe haven. However, the increasing civilian toll of drone strikes is turning the apathy of tribal factions into anger.
The strikes have created an opportunity for terrorist groups like Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula and Ansar al-Sharia to recruit fighters from tribes who have suffered casualties, especially in Yemen's south, where mounting grievances since the 1994 civil war have driven a strong secessionist movement.
Unlike Al Qaeda in Iraq, A.Q.A.P. has worked on gaining the support of local communities by compromising on some of their strict religious laws and offering basic services, electricity and gas to villagers in the areas they control. Furthermore, Iran has seized this chance to gain more influence among the disgruntled population in Yemen's south.
And the situation is quite likely to get worse now that Washington has broadened its rules of engagement to allow so-called signature strikes, when surveillance data suggest a terrorist leader may be nearby but the identities of all others targeted is not known. Such loose rules risk redefining ''militants'' as any military-age males seen in a strike zone.
Certainly, there may be short-term military gains from killing militant leaders in these strikes, but they are minuscule compared with the long-term damage the drone program is causing. A new generation of leaders is spontaneously emerging in furious retaliation to attacks on their territories and tribes.
This is why A.Q.A.P. is much stronger in Yemen today than it was a few years ago. In 2009, A.Q.A.P. had only a few hundred members and controlled no territory; today it has, along with Ansar al-Sharia, at least 1,000 members and controls substantial amounts of territory.
Yemenis are the ones who suffer the most from the presence of Al Qaeda, and getting rid of this plague is a priority for the majority of Yemen's population. But there is no shortcut in dealing with it. Overlooking the real drivers of extremism and focusing solely on tackling their security symptoms with brutal force will make the situation worse.
Only a long-term approach based on building relations with local communities, dealing with the economic and social drivers of extremism, and cooperating with tribes and Yemen's army will eradicate the threat of Islamic radicalism.
Unfortunately, liberal voices in the United States are largely ignoring, if not condoning, civilian deaths and extrajudicial killings in Yemen -- including the assassination of three American citizens in September 2011, including a 16-year-old. During George W. Bush's presidency, the rage would have been tremendous. But today there is little outcry, even though what is happening is in many ways an escalation of Mr. Bush's policies.
Defenders of human rights must speak out. America's counterterrorism policy here is not only making Yemen less safe by strengthening support for A.Q.A.P., but it could also ultimately endanger the United States and the entire world.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); BUDGETS (68%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (66%); RELIGION (64%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (63%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%); GULF STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2012



551 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2452 words

HEADLINE: How Broccoli Landed on Supreme Court Menu

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
What does broccoli have to do with health insurance?
Until recently, nothing. But now, perhaps a lot.
Broccoli, of all things, came up in the Supreme Court during arguments over the constitutionality of the Obama administration's health care legislation. If Congress can require Americans to buy health insurance, Justice Antonin Scalia asked, could it force people to buy just about anything -- including a green vegetable that many find distasteful?
''Everybody has to buy food sooner or later,'' he said. ''Therefore, you can make people buy broccoli.''
Since then broccoli has captured the public imagination and become the defining symbol for what may be the most important Supreme Court ruling in decades, one that is expected any day and could narrow the established limits of federal power and even overturn the legal underpinnings of the New Deal. 
If the court strikes down the health care law -- which many constitutional experts on both the right and left long doubted it would do -- many lawyers say they believe one reason may be the role of broccoli in shaping the debate.
It turns out that broccoli did not spring from the mind of Justice Scalia. The vegetable trail leads backward through conservative media and pundits. Before reaching the Supreme Court, vegetables were cited by a federal judge in Florida with a libertarian streak; in an Internet video financed by libertarian and ultraconservative backers; at a Congressional hearing by a Republican senator; and an op-ed column by David B. Rivkin Jr., a libertarian lawyer whose family emigrated from the former Soviet Union when he was 10.
Even those who reject the broccoli argument appreciate its simplicity. Whatever the Supreme Court rules, Mr. Rivkin and his libertarian allies have turned the decision into a cliffhanger that few thought possible.
''I have some grudging admiration for them,'' said Akhil Amar, a professor of law and political science at Yale and author of a book on the Constitution. ''All the more so because it's such a bad argument. They have been politically brilliant. They needed a simplistic metaphor, and in broccoli they got it.''
The seeds of the broccoli debate date back to the early 1990s, when President Bill Clinton first proposed a universal health care plan. It included a requirement that all businesses provide health insurance to their employees. ''How can the government do that?'' Mr. Rivkin wondered, explaining, ''It's just the way I am.''
Mr. Rivkin attended Georgetown University while working three jobs, including cleaning animal cages at a lab. He later worked in the White House counsel's office under President George H. W. Bush and now, at 55, is a partner in the Washington office of the law firm Baker Hostetler.
''I'm driven by two things,'' he said. ''Enormous appreciation bordering on burning love for the American system. It gives people with drive and motivation and hard work an opportunity to be all you can be. And a healthy suspicion of governmental power, having come from an environment where you had an all-powerful totalitarian government.''
With his law partner Lee A. Casey, Mr. Rivkin took aim at Congress's power under the commerce clause of the Constitution. It had become the source of ever-expanding legislative power since Chief Justice John Marshall wrote in 1824 that Congressional power to regulate commerce ''may be exercised to its utmost extent.''
In a September 1993 commentary in The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Rivkin and Mr. Casey argued that the Clinton proposal was unconstitutional. Requiring Americans to buy insurance went a step beyond a famous 1942 case, Wickard v. Filburn, which has long been a thorn in the side of those who opposed the New Deal. In it, the Supreme Court ruled that Congress had the power to prevent a farmer from growing wheat for his own consumption on the theory that any wheat affected the total supply, and thus fell within interstate commerce.
The health care law, the two lawyers maintained, did not ban an existing activity like growing wheat, but forced people who were doing nothing to act in a certain way. If Congress could regulate inactivity, they argued, there might be no limit to what it could force people to do. ''If Congress thinks Americans are too fat,'' the article said, ''can it not decree that Americans shall lose weight?''
''Would the Bill of Rights intervene?'' it continued. ''Maybe, and maybe not. There is no specific right to eat when and how you like.''
The Clinton administration's health care effort collapsed. But Mr. Rivkin's unorthodox theory lived on, nurtured by ''a small but discernible, libertarian segment of academia,'' he said. One advocate, Ilya Shapiro of the Cato Institute, said ''we were treated with condescension bordering on rudeness'' by the legal establishment.
Mr. Rivkin recalled, ''We were met with howls of derision.''
An Analogy Returns
By 2009, with the Obama administration pushing its health care initiative, one that included a requirement that Americans buy health insurance, Mr. Rivkin and Mr. Casey returned to the Wall Street Journal and Washington Post op-ed pages. Mr. Rivkin also took his argument to Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah.
Senator Hatch had earlier supported an individual insurance mandate as an alternative to a more sweeping plan championed by Hillary Clinton. But after listening to Mr. Rivkin, the senator embraced the argument. ''If we have the power to simply order Americans to buy certain products, why did we need a Cash for Clunkers program or the upcoming program providing rebates for purchasing energy-saving appliances?'' Senator Hatch asked during hearings in October 2009. ''We could simply require Americans to buy certain cars, dishwashers or refrigerators.''
His remarks struck a chord with Terence P. Jeffrey, the editor in chief of CNS News, an Internet publication formerly known as the Conservative News Service. Both his parents are doctors, and he has a particular interest in health care.
After reading the transcript of Senator Hatch's comments and the Supreme Court's opinion in the wheat case, Mr. Jeffrey shared the senator's concerns. But he figured most Americans would not understand an abstract debate over the limits of the commerce clause. Searching for an easy-to-grasp analogy, he hit upon something ''that would go more to health care, something that people would universally recognize was good for you,'' he said. Broccoli. ''I know George Bush didn't like broccoli. It seemed an obvious thing that everyone thinks is good for you.''
''Can President Barack Obama and Congress enact legislation that orders Americans to buy broccoli?'' Mr. Jeffrey wrote in his Oct. 21, 2009, CNS column.
''This is not a question about nutrition. It is not a question about whether broccoli is good for you,'' the column continued. ''It is a question about the constitutional limits on the power of the federal government. It is a question about freedom.''
The column appears to be the first public mention of broccoli in the context of the commerce clause. If so, Mr. Jeffrey said, ''that's pretty cool.''
President Obama's health care law passed on March 21, 2010. That summer, after the president nominated his solicitor general, Elena Kagan, to the Supreme Court, the subject of vegetables resurfaced in confirmation hearings. Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, who is also a medical doctor, asked, ''If I wanted to sponsor a bill and it said, 'Americans, you have to eat three vegetables and three fruits every day,' and I got it through Congress and it's now the law of the land, got to do it, does that violate the commerce clause?''
''Sounds like a dumb law,'' Ms. Kagan replied.
The exchange caught the attention of Austin Bragg, 33, a producer for Reason TV. He proposed a video to his editor, Nick Gillespie. Reason TV and its magazine and Internet outlets are subsidiaries of the Reason Foundation, a libertarian research organization whose largest donors are the David H. Koch Charitable Foundation ($1,522,212) and the Sarah Scaife Foundation ($2,016,000), according to the foundations' most recent filings. Both finance conservative and libertarian causes.
''Part of the idea for Reason is we're ideological and we're trying to articulate and popularize our worldview and have some influence,'' Mr. Gillespie said.
Creating a Villain
The video, ''Wheat, Weed and Obamacare: How the Commerce Clause Made Congress All-Powerful,'' was shown on YouTube and the Reason Web site in August 2010. ''Legal titans John Eastman and Erwin Chemerinsky slug it out to determine whether or not Congress has been abusing the commerce clause,'' Reason's Web site proclaimed. Professor Eastman, a conservative, teaches at Chapman University in Orange, Calif., and clerked for Justice Clarence Thomas of the Supreme Court. He is also chairman of the National Organization for Marriage, which opposes gay marriage. Professor Chemerinsky, a liberal, is dean of the law school at the University of California, Irvine.
In the Reason video, Professor Chemerinsky got the worst of it. The clip shows Senator Coburn asking Ms. Kagan about eating vegetables and fruits, and cuts to Professor Chemerinsky. He appears to struggle with the question of limits to Congressional power, saying at one point, ''Congress can force economic transactions,'' and at another, ''power can be used in silly ways and the Constitution isn't our protector.'' Professor Eastman comes off better, as he questions whether Americans want ''an unlimited, amorphous government that can make us do whatever it wants?''
For Mr. Gillespie, the video had the desired effect. ''Based on that video, Chemerinsky is the best screen villain since Hannibal Lecter,'' Mr. Gillespie said. ''But he got his chance to make his case.''
Professor Chemerinsky said he has never seen the video and doesn't recall being interviewed, though Mr. Gillespie said he was filmed in his office. At this point, different strands of the broccoli legal argument came together. It happened in a suit filed by the state of Florida and 12 other states challenging the constitutionality of the health care law.
Arguing the case against the law last December was Mr. Rivkin of Baker Hostetler. He and his colleague Mr. Casey had been hired by Florida's attorney general, who had read the two men's Wall Street Journal op-ed articles.
Judge Roger Vinson, appointed to Federal District Court in 1983 by President Ronald Reagan, heard the case, and introduced the subject of broccoli. ''If they decided that everybody needs to eat broccoli because broccoli is healthy, they can mandate that everybody has to buy a certain quantity of broccoli each week?'' he asked.
''That is absolutely true, Your Honor,'' Mr. Rivkin replied. ''The analogy you're talking about is entirely apropos.''
(Judge Vinson did not respond to the question of where he came up with broccoli. But Mr. Rivkin said he thought he had mentioned it to the judge. Vegetables also surfaced during oral arguments in October in a Virginia case challenging the health care law, when the judge asked if the government could force people ''to buy an automobile, to join a gym, to eat asparagus.'')
Judge Vinson also indicated that he had seen the Reason video citing vegetables. He said, ''You know, my friend Dean Chemerinsky says the government can, under the commerce clause, in his view, order Americans to buy G.M. cars.''
Ian Gershengorn, a lawyer from the Justice Department, replied: ''But what this case is about is the purchase of a very particular product, and it is not shoes, it is not cars, it is not broccoli.''
That argument summed up the prevailing view among legal scholars, but broccoli figured prominently in Judge Vinson's ruling that the law was unconstitutional, as did the Reason video.
''Congress could require that people buy and consume broccoli at regular intervals, not only because the required purchases will positively impact interstate commerce, but also because people who eat healthier tend to be healthier, and are thus more productive and put less of a strain on the health care system,'' wrote Judge Vinson, who even provided a link to the ''Wheat, Weed and Obamacare'' video.
Seized by the Media
After the opinion, broccoli quickly became the defining symbol for the debate. Fox News led its report on Judge Vinson's opinion with a broccoli reference. Professor Eastman was deluged with media requests, and hits to the Reason video rose. Rush Limbaugh took up the issue. ''Let's cut to the chase here,'' he said to a guest. ''You're telling me that you want the Supreme Court to decide that the government can tell you that you have to buy health insurance and broccoli?''
Broccoli surfaced at the federal appeals court level last September. During oral arguments in another case challenging the health care act, Laurence H. Silberman, a Reagan appointee and senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, asked if it would be unconstitutional to require people to buy broccoli. (He nonetheless wrote the opinion that the act is constitutional.)
The Supreme Court agreed last November to hear Florida's case. Broccoli and the notion that limiting the commerce clause protects personal freedom appeared in many of the 136 briefs filed with the court. It featured prominently in a long Wall Street Journal editorial that ran before the oral argument.
Justice Scalia's broccoli question suggests that the argument struck a chord with him. It also seems to have resonated with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, widely viewed as the swing vote.
''The government is saying that the federal government has a duty to tell the individual citizen that it must act, and that is different from what we have in previous cases,'' Justice Kennedy said, echoing Mr. Rivkin's argument.
Legal scholars say it is hazardous to predict how the court will decide based on oral arguments.
Whatever the outcome, that such a small group of libertarian lawyers could harness the power of media in the digital age and have such an impact ''has left the legal establishment reeling,'' Mr. Shapiro of Cato said.
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DAVID B. RIVKIN JR. a lawyer who, along with Lee A. Casey, wrote a 1993 article in The Wall Street Journal criticizing President Bill Clinton's health care policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FOX NEWS)
TERENCE P. JEFFREY the editor in chief of CNS News in a 2009 column. It is thought to be the first public mention of broccoli in the context of the commerce clause.
SENATOR ORRIN G. HATCH Republican of Utah, speaking in an October 2009 hearing on health care legislation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH HOGSTEN/SALT LAKE TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
JUDGE ROGER VINSON of the Federal District Court, who in December 2011 ruled that the Obama administration's health care legislation was unconstitutional. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN TWINGLEY/PENSACOLA NEWS JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
JUSTICE ANTONIN SCALIA of the Supreme Court suggested in addressing the sweep of the new law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA HILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 OF VEGETABLES AND A UNIVERSAL MANDATE: On March 28, the last of three days of oral arguments before the Supreme Court, a picket stood in front of the court's steps. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); CONSERVATISM (87%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); JUDGES (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (70%); INTERNET VIDEO (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); WRITERS (61%)

COMPANY: BAKER & HOSTETLER LLP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (56%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); ANTONIN SCALIA (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (57%); ORRIN HATCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENSACOLA, FL, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2012



552 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: The Balance of Power Between Bosses and Workers

BYLINE: PAUL DOWNS


HIGHLIGHT: By taking the time to write a manual, I am demonstrating to my workers that I intend to take a rational approach to the boss/employee relationship. 

 BODY:
There were lots of comments to my post onhow I fire people, and I'd like to address some of the points. Commenters raised two main issues: First, that the policies I outlined in my employee manual are written for the benefit of the company as opposed to the employee and, second, that I seemed to be favoring firing people instead of training them. Both of these are complex issues that are handled differently by different companies. I can only comment on my own thoughts and experiences. Please don't blame me for the many, many bad bosses and companies out there.
That said, let's start with the balance of power between bosses and workers. Here's the news in a nutshell: If you work in America, and don't have an employment contract that explicitly states otherwise, your boss can fire you, for any reason or for no reason, whenever he or she feels like it. This is known as at-will employment. Similarly, unless there is a contract that states otherwise, you can quit any time you feel like it, for any reason or no reason. That's the broad picture, although there are exceptions. Employment law varies from state to state, and in some places employees have more rights. There's an excellent article on this subject in the Monthly Labor Review (it's a pdf).
The basic principle is that employers can act without restraint. But -- and this is a big but -- they have to accept the consequences of their actions. This can take several forms, but the one I have encountered is the need to pay unemployment compensation to discharged workers. In Pennsylvania, if I fire employees without cause or lay them off, I have to pay a large portion of their unemployment benefits out of my own pocket. The state pays the discharged worker, and then it charges me higher unemployment compensation taxes in the subsequent years until I have paid off most of that money. This is a significant cost -- in 2009 my unemployment rate jumped from less than 2 percent of payroll to more than 10 percent. This is a powerful disincentive to discharge workers needlessly.
On the other hand, if I fire someone for cause, I am not required to contribute to their unemployment payments and the payments may be denied altogether. This is why I have an employee manual and why I take care to document the cause of discharge and the actual firing -- it's all evidence to be presented to the unemployment compensation referees in the event the employee files for unemployment insurance. Most discharged workers do file, because they have little to lose by doing so. Their payments start almost immediately and the process of adjudicating my challenge can take months. I have gone through this process twice -- and won both times because of the evidence I was able to present. That saved me many thousands of dollars that I used to keep the business running (to the benefit of the other employees).
There is no doubt that other companies, particularly larger companies, fire people in ways that are inhuman, retaliatory and unfair. Those organizations then suffer the consequences of their actions -- although many of them probably have figured out what those costs are and are perfectly happy to keep operating the way they do. In a small company like mine, however, where I know my employees well and rely on them to work at a high level, I would be crazy to act capriciously. I have never fired someone without a darned good reason.
Now for some comments. The first one I have selected was written in response to my explanation that when firing someone I videotape the conversation and ask the employee to sign an acknowledgment. Four of the five people I have done this with admitted to breaking the rules; the fifth got up and left.
One reader responded:
The guy who got up and left wasn't as smart as you think -- I called the meeting not to fire him but to try to get him to show up on time and do the work that was piling up in his department. The meeting was intended as a formal warning, with documented reference to the relevant sections of the manual. If he had changed his work habits, he would still have his job. As it was, he tossed the manual at me, got up and stalked out before I had finished the first sentence of my explanation. Then I fired him, for not being willing to sit through a disciplinary meeting.
The unemployment referee agreed that refusal to be managed was a firing offense, and his claim was denied. In the other cases, the employees were caught doing illegal activities (theft and drug use) with indisputable evidence. But I fully documented the offense, the evidence, and the firing anyway. Only one of those guys claimed unemployment, and he lost his appeal. All of the things I did were for my own protection. They minimized my unemployment costs and prevented me from being sued. The guy who stalked out threatened me with a suit, but I reminded him that I had filmed the exchange and nothing came of it.
Another reader asked about our list of offenses that can lead to firing:
I added the "Other reasons not listed here" on the advice of a labor lawyer who reviewed our employee manual. And it makes perfect sense; there is no way for me to anticipate every possible situation that might arise. I didn't do it because I have some secret list of offenses that I won't tell anyone about until they commit them. That would be insane. Instead, it's there to make clear that the list of offenses is not all inclusive. Same with the language about the company's ability to modify the manual at any time. It's so that we can respond to unexpected circumstances.
With those who were fired for cause, I did not give warnings because I do not tolerate theft. In the case involving falsified time sheets, it took several weeks to document what was happening. Only when I had indisputable evidence did I act. In the case of the fifth guy, as described above, I was trying to give a formal warning. This included a description of the problem along with the clearly outlined steps, in a written document, that I wanted the employee to take to rectify the situation. If the employee had accepted this information and changed his game, he would still be here. He was a highly skilled worker who had a lot of value, and I was not at all happy to lose him. But my workers have to be willing to have a civil conversation about problems.
For those of you who have issues with my employee manual, I offer two thoughts: First, you should understand that I did not reprint the whole thing here. There are also long sections on what the employees can expect of the company, which, in a nutshell, is that it will act in a legal manner, pay them on time and provide a safe workplace. (It also describes our benefits program.) Second, whatever its faults, this manual is a lot better than nothing. Plenty of small businesses don't have a manual, which leaves both employer and employees in precarious positions. When things go wrong, there's nothing keeping them from getting worse. By taking the time to write a manual, I am demonstrating to my workers that I intend to take a rational approach to the boss/employee relationship. The real protection we both have, though, isn't the words on paper. It's the mutual benefit we derive from treating each other well. Good employees help the company make money, and when we are profitable, I can be a lot more generous with my employees.
One last comment on my power to fire at will:
Yes, it does say something about my performance, and it also says something about the economy in 2008. My mistakes cost me hundreds of thousands of dollars. As for why I didn't quit, well, if you don't understand, then I would suggest that you never try to start your own company.
In my next post, I will address the issues of training workers and layoffs. If you have anything more you want to say about firing for cause, please chime in.

        
Are You Managing Your Unemployment Insurance?
        
Is It O.K. to Be a Mediocre Employee?
        
Do Good Bosses Have to Be Cutthroat?
        
Solving Problems: Hiring, Visiting Competitors, an Old Web Site
        
How to Diagnose What's Wrong With Your Business

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); AT WILL EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%) comments; firing; Human Resources; management; responding to readers; Unemployment; unemployment insurance; unemployment tax; Labor and Jobs; Small Business; Unemployment Insurance; Staying Alive

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



553 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Borrowers Share Their Student Debt Stories

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Borrowers' struggles with private student loans are detailed in comments made to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. 

 BODY:
Students, college graduates and their families have shared their personal struggles with education debt with the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
The bureau solicited the comments because it is studying whether there should be more regulation of so-called "private" student loans, those made by lenders outside the federal student loan programs. Private student loans are often more expensive than federal loans, and lack some of the borrower protections that federal loans carry.
This week, the bureau published online nearly 2,000 comments submitted by the general public. Although the bureau redacted names from the personal stories, many provide a compelling portrait of how the burden of educational debt is weighing on many Americans. While the bureau sought information specifically about private loans, some comments indicate that borrowers are often unsure about whether their loans are federal or private.
In general, the bureau saidin a statementannouncing publication of the comments, the submissions show that borrowing for college is a difficult, confusing process for many. Some said they turned to private loans because they assumed they were ineligible for federal loans, and many find their debt load unmanageable.
Here are some examples of the comments. Many more are available online.
"My family is having an unexpectedly, extremely difficult time with student loan debt, including $65,000+ in private student loans. Unfortunately, during my 2 children's college years, as a single, working mother, I did the best I could to get them a good education. Not knowing any better, I erroneously co-signed private student loans for them while feeling pressure every semester to meet their tuition and room/board needs. After making that mistake twice for each kid, I then took out Parent Plus loans. My two kids' total loan debt (including federal un and sub, my credit card payments of tuition, my Parent Plus loans, and our private student loans) totals to date is $200,000+ and climbing. My son graduated with a 4-year degree in Dec. 2009 and cannot find a job. He applies for all types of jobs every day online. There is nothing in his field. My daughter graduated in May 2011 with a 4-year degree and is working outside of her field part-time, because she cannot find a job in her field (we live in northeastern PA). She comes home crying every day. The pressures and looming cloud are always there."
"My private student loans have been in default for the past two years. They are currently listed as "charge-offs," and I lie awake many nights wondering when the lawsuit will arrive at my door. I was on unemployment, and am now receiving a fellowship to pursue my PhD. During this time, I tried, repeatedly to reach an agreement with my lender to lower my payments (which were almost $500 per month). I simply did not have the money, but they refused to give me options, scoffing at my offer to send them a lower amount per month. So I just stopped paying. I know that because of this action I may never be able to buy a house or get a loan, but I felt backed up against a wall. I don't want to skirt my obligations, but I need more reasonable options. Thank you for considering this note."
"Private student loan originators and servicers make it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to pay down the principal on an existing student loan. For those that are successful, it requires a monthly call to the student loan servicer requesting that the extra money be applied to principal instead of future payments. For others, including myself, I have made multiple calls to my loan servicer requesting that the extra money I include each month be applied to principal, and am told each time that the money is applied to (future) principal (payments) and continue to have my payment advanced, despite documentation in my loan disclosures stating that my loan is eligible for prepayment. After countless calls and speaking to many different representatives of my loan servicing company (Chase), I have defeatedly decided to only pay the minimum payment each month until maturity since paying extra is not saving me any money in the long run."
"I took out both federal and private loans during law school and then graduated in 2008 when the economy was seriously depressed. Now I am struggling to pay my loans working as a contract attorney because I have not been fortunate enough to find a permanent position. I am allowed to defer federal loan payments based on my income, but there is nothing I can do about my private loans. I am hoping I can get the final six-month extension to delay these payments, but there is no guarantee and if I don't receive this final extension, then I will be forced to default on my loan payments. I am horrified by the position I am in. Once a responsible individual who would always pay my credit card in full, I am now struggling to pay the minimum balance and avoiding my student loans completely. In retrospect, law school wasn't worth it. Students should have the same deferment options based on income levels on private loans as they do on federal loans or private lending for student loans should be terminated."
"My wife and I have over $150,000 in student loans between us, in large part because we have never been able to make regular payments because they would be so large as to prevent us from having a home. So the interest keeps getting added on to the principal. We are in modest-paying teaching jobs. Moreover, our interest rates are locked in at above 7%. These student loans hanging over us for at least 15 years are a major source of stress. Unfortunately, it was the only way we could attend school and improve our prospects when we already had children. We are extremely productive and devoted citizens and I think we deserve a little help. We also purchased our home in '06 when prices were inflated and are thus currently underwater and cannot sell our home even if we wanted to."
What, if anything, should be done to help families who are struggling with student debt, especially private loans?

        
Start Your College Value Conversation Now
        
A New Way to Compare College Costs Online
        
Your College Savings Advice
        
SoFi Tapping Alumni to Help With Student Loans
        
Most Students Spared Big Cuts in Debt Bill

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (97%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); TUITION FEES (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); FAMILY (89%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (62%) Paying for College; Student Loans; Credit and Debt; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; United States

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (94%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



554 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: Asia Is Rising When It Comes to Expatriates' Costs, Too

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: A new survey that ranks global cities by cost of living for expatriates has some surprising results. (Tokyo's regaining the top spot is not one of them.) 

 BODY:
Mercer, a human resources consultancy, has released its annual survey ranking cities according to the cost of living for expatriates. Tokyo regained its place at the top, as last year's No. 1, Luanda, Angola, slipped a notch. Of course, this is not a list that it necessarily pays to be at the top of. 
The survey considers the cost of some 200 items, including housing, transportation, food, clothes and household goods. New York is the baseline; because of this, the exchange rate with the U.S. dollar - in addition to the actual cost of items - can also affect the ranking of most cities. If the dollar has gone up against your currency, it makes your city cheaper relative to New York. With investors buying both the yen and the dollar as safe hedges against turmoil in the euro zone, Tokyo has gotten more expensive in dollar terms.
And London has become less expensive. That must be the only explanation for the E.U.'s biggest city falling from 18th place last year to 25th this year, as Paris went from 27th last year to 37th this year. (We don't know why Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, has jumped from 61st to 36th.) 
Asian cities - not surprisingly, given where most companies see future opportunity - are climbing the cost ladder. Five of the 10 most expensive cities are in Asia: Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Singapore and Hong Kong.
We're only allowed to publish parts of the list. Really:
Notes to Editors
: The list of rankings is provided to journalists for reference, and should not be published in full. The top 10 and bottom 10 cities in either list may be reproduced in a table.
So for the whole list you'll have to click here. 

        
Attention Expats: Singapore Is Better Than Hong Kong
        
As Russian Real Estate Money Floods in, Could New York Go the Way of London?
        
Look Who's in the New White Cube
        
Hong Kong Acquires a French Twist
        
Cheers and Jeers For Queen's Jubilee

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); RANKINGS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); EURO (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (70%); EURO ZONE (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); WRITERS (64%) Expatriates; Hong Kong; London; New York; Singapore; Tokyo; Americans Abroad; London (England); Luanda (Angola); Nagoya (Japan); Tokyo (Japan); View From Asia

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); OSAKA, JAPAN (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) SINGAPORE (94%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (91%); ANGOLA (90%); ENGLAND (87%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (77%); EUROPE (70%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%); FRANCE (54%) Hong Kong; London (England); Luanda (Angola); Nagoya (Japan); Singapore; Tokyo (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



555 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: City Gains Jobs, but Unemployment Rises

BYLINE: PATRICK MCGEEHAN


HIGHLIGHT: Once again, employers reported that they increased their payrolls at a healthy clip but residents of the city said that they were struggling to find work. 

 BODY:
What is happening in New York City's job market is still a conundrum: The city gained more than 25,000 jobs in May but its unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent, according to the State Labor Department.
 The latest numbers continued a patternthat has left economists scratching around for explanations. Once again, employers reported that they had increased their payrolls at a healthy clip but residents of the city said that they were struggling to find work.
 Employers said they added 26,200 workers in May, nearly double the usual rate of hiring in mid-spring, said James P. Brown, principal economist for the New York State Department of Labor. Over the last year, employment in the city has increased by 2.4 percent, much faster than the national job rate growth of 1.8 percent.
 But all of those new jobs apparently were not enough to prevent the unemployment rate from rising from 9.5 percent in April. The city's unemployment rate is much higher than the national rate of 8.2 percent and almost a full percentage point higher than a year ago, when it was 8.8 percent. 
 Mr. Brown said it was hard to square the two measures, but he said their divergence indicated that "even though we have substantial areas of economic strength, it's still a difficult job market."
 He pointed out that a little more than half of the jobs added in the city in the past year were in professional and business services, like law and accounting firms and advertising and employment agencies. 
But construction, which lost jobs in May, and the public sector remain weak, he said. At the same time, big banks on Wall Street continue to announce plans to lay off workers.
 "There are certain types of industries that are doing very well, but if you're looking for a job outside of those industries, not so good," Mr. Brown said.

        
At Another Job Fair, Hope This Will Be the One
        
City's Jobless Rate Dips After Steady Rise
        
A Question Inspired by the Skyline
        
Rise in City's Jobless Rate Continues to Outpace Hiring
        
City's Jobless Rate Continues to Rise Faster Than Job Creation Rate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%) Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion; Labor and Jobs; Labor Department (NYS); New York City; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



556 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: The Democratic Road Not Taken

BYLINE: GARY HART


HIGHLIGHT: We are still reaping the consequences of the party's failure to respond coherently to the economic dislocation of the 1970s and '80s. 

 BODY:
For more than four decades most Americans identified the Democratic Party with a social contract and safety net, equality of justice and opportunity, and progressive - yes, even liberal - causes. Sometime in the last 30 years the party of progress and change - Emerson's party of hope - became the party of reactionary liberalism. 
This phrase would be an oxymoron were it not for the fact that merely defending social programs, liberal programs, is reactionary. Those programs included Roosevelt's social safety net, as expanded by Johnson's Great Society, and the expansion of minority rights and women's rights after that. They include the framework of environmental laws of the 1960s and '70s, often supported and occasionally created by what were then moderate Republicans.
But beginning dramatically in the 1970s things changed. Things being: globalization and foreign competition; the decline of the manufacturing base; petroleum-producing nations controlling the price of oil; and the unsustainable costs of cold war military engagements and deployments.
The OPEC oil embargoes of 1974 and 1979 contributed to the combination of stagnation and inflation and to the flattening of household incomes for the first time since the beginning of World War II. Meanwhile, the numbers of people qualifying for assistance under New Deal and Great Society programs increased, as did the overall costs of operating those programs, especially in the area of health care.
The Democratic Party during this period had the opportunity to develop a new economic platform but failed to do so. Having no constructive response to a tide of economic and social revolutions, it clung to the defense of its historic social agenda, which required taxation of working class and middle income people to finance that agenda at a time when their own economic security was endangered. As Todd S. Purdum described this phenomenon recently in Vanity Fair, "the Democrats came across more and more as the crouched consolidators and defenders of past gains." Thomas E. Mann and Norman J. Ornstein echoed this conclusion in their new book, "It's Even Worse Than It Looks." The Democrats, they write, "have become the more status-quo oriented, centrist protectors of government."
The Democratic response of triangulation and centrism, essentially splitting the difference between reactionary liberalism and increasingly virulent conservatism, cost the party its identity. A few political figures of my generation, essentially those swept into office by the post-Watergate tidal wave in the mid-1970s, began to fashion an alternative, comprehensive, long-range agenda built around the managed transition of the economic base of the United States from traditional manufacturing to information and communications. In sum, this involved transforming our steel and auto industry into plants that produced high value products at which we could excel; combining a package of tax incentives, advanced scientific research investments, computer education and worker-training programs, information highway acceleration; and developing competitive free trade initiatives (as opposed to the protectionist measures that sought, Canute-like, to hold back the tide of globalization) that would help us maintain a lead in the emerging worlds of science and technology.
The confusion this effort to reposition the Democratic Party caused in the traditional political media of the time is suggested by the fact that within a two- or three-month period I was featured in one magazine as a "neo-liberal" and in another as a "neo-conservative." None of this agenda lent itself to traditional ideological categories.
This economic transformation policy came to be combined in my case with a new foreign policy approach detailed under the label "enlightened engagement" and thereafter with a post-cold-war defense policy based upon carefully detailed military reforms that anticipated the coming transformation of war and the rise of irregular, unconventional conflict. These initiatives were the answer to the clever debate taunt, "where's the beef?" But they also resisted media insistence on sound-bite compression.
One does not have to agree with the details of these new departures in the three major policy areas of governance - the economy, foreign policy and defense - to admit that they did offer a much more positive response to the revolutions in globalization, information, energy, nationalism, and the transformation of conflict than the "crouched" defense of the status quo and past achievements.
The principal theory of those of my generation who believed every bit as strongly in the social contract and care for the needy as the most ardent New Dealer was that the economic pie must continue to grow to generate the revenues required to finance that contract. To argue that taxes on the working middle class must continue even as incomes contracted is to virtually guarantee a revival of conservatism and anti-government sentiments of the kind that now characterize our politics.
The Democratic Party has not only been the party of hope, the party of compassion and inclusiveness, it has also been the party of innovation. By failing to innovate some 30 years ago, it has permitted itself to lapse into the defensive, if not also reactionary, posture that now plagues it. A well-motivated Democratic president now struggles to move the nation forward against a conservative tide that emerged in the policy vacuum created by Democratic failure to adapt and in a political climate where many people, especially young people, do not know the basic principles of the current Democratic Party or what it stands for.

        
The Untold Future of American Politics
        
Hello, Heterogeneity
        
Forget the Money, Follow the Sacredness
        
How Obama Can Win Ohio Again
        
The Politics of Austerity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CARTELS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (78%); WORLD WAR II (75%); TAX LAW (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); NEW ECONOMY (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); WOMEN (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); TAX INCENTIVES (63%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (54%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (52%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (50%) deindustrialization; Democratic Party; political wrong turns; the future of the Democratic Party; the information economy; United States Economy; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%) Democratic Party

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



557 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Central Bank Urges Credit Suisse to Bolster Capital

BYLINE: JULIA WERDIGIER


HIGHLIGHT: Shares of Credit Suisse tumble in Zurich trading after the Swiss central bank says it should consider suspending its dividend or raising capital by selling stock. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Credit Suisse needs to increase its capital this year to prepare for a potential worsening of the European debt crisis, Switzerland's central bank said on Thursday.
The Swiss National Bank singled out Credit Suisse in its annual financial stability report as a bank that needs to "significantly expand its loss-absorbing capital during the current year." Credit Suisse's local rival, UBS, should just continue with its efforts to strengthen its capital, the central bank said. 
Shares of Credit Suisse fell 10 percent in trading in Zurich on Thursday. UBS shares were down only slightly.
 "Despite progress achieved, the big banks' loss-absorbing capital is still below the level needed to ensure sufficient resilience given the high risks in the environment," the central bank wrote in the report. "The big banks' importance for the Swiss economy and for financial stability requires that they further strengthen their resilience."
 The central bank recommended that Credit Suisse consider suspending its dividend or raising capital by selling shares. Unlike UBS, Credit Suisse has continued to pay a dividend throughout the debt crisis. 
Marc Dosch, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in Zurich, said the bank was already working to reduce its risk-weighted assets and its capital ratio was above current requirements.
 Based on the new Basel III banking requirements, which are being phased in over the coming years, the capital strength of the two large Swiss banks was "below average for international big banks," the central bank said. By the new measures, Credit Suisse's loss-absorbing capital was about 5.9 percent of risk-weighted assets and 7.5 percent for UBS, the central bank wrote.
Analysts at JP Morgan Chase were skeptical that Credit Suisse would tap the stock market to raise capital and said the bank was more likely to continue to reduce risk-weighted assets at its investment banking operation. 
"In addition, we stress the Swiss national bank is not the Swiss bank regulator", which "has not expressed concerns of capital in their recent publications," analysts Kian Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan wrote in a note to clients. (The Financial Market Supervisory Authority of Switzerland supervises Credit Suisse.)
The central bank analyzed Credit Suisse's and UBS's capital strength considering a worst-case scenario in which European countries, including Switzerland, and the United States would slip into a "deep recession" and economic growth in emerging markets would decline "sharply."

        
Why European Bank Buffers May Not Be Quite What They Seem
        
Tax Haven Crackdown Creates Opportunities for Bankers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); DEREGULATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%) Basel III; Credit Suisse; Swiss National Bank; UBS; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Credit Suisse Group A.G; UBS A.G; Credit Suisse Group A.G|CS|NYSE; UBS A.G|UBS|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: SCHWEIZERISCHE NATIONALBANK (93%); UBS AG (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Credit Suisse Group A.G; Swiss National Bank; UBS A.G

TICKER: SNBN (SWX) (93%); UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (92%); CS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%) Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group A.G; CS; NYSE; UBS A.G; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (92%); ZURICH (91%) SWITZERLAND (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



558 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Regulator May Grant Foreign Banks Brief Reprieve on Derivatives

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: In a speech to bankers, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission outlined a plan to regulate overseas derivatives trading while delaying some rules for foreign banks. 

 BODY:
Gary Gensler entered the lion's den on Thursday with some news that tamed the crowd of bankers.
In a lunchtime speech before a conference of international bankers, Mr. Gensler, the head of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, outlined a plan to regulate overseas derivatives trading while also delaying some new rules for foreign banks. Next Thursday, Mr. Gensler said, the agency will introduce a proposal to phase in foreign compliance with derivatives regulations for "up to one year."
Regulators would use the time to complete a broader proposal to police derivatives trading overseas. The plan, Mr. Gensler noted on Thursday, tracks an approach first floated last year by a group of bankers.
"I hope you still like it," Mr. Gensler said with a smile, speaking in a ballroom at the Waldorf Astoria in Midtown Manhattan.
Once the rules are fully phased in, Mr. Gensler said, he expects 20 to 30 foreign banks to register with his agency. The companies include many of the big European banks in attendance on Thursday, including Deutsche Bank and UBS.
The banks have long anticipated the new oversight, which stems from the Dodd-Frank Act, the regulatory overhaul law enacted two years ago.
"Please don't come in and say you're surprised," Mr. Gensler told the Institute of International Bankers. "And if you do, at least keep a smile."
Despite his playful remarks, Mr. Gensler delivered plenty of tough talk.
In one awkward moment that came as Mr. Gensler discussed future financial collapses, he declared that "some of the banks here will not be survivors." Bankers, eating fruit and chocolate mousse, rolled their eyes.
Undeterred, Mr. Gensler made the case for regulating derivatives trading overseas. One proposal would apply new oversight to foreign banks that conduct significant derivatives trading in the United States, as well as American banks that have foreign units.
The issue came into focus last month after the multibillion-dollar derivatives mess at JPMorgan Chase. The trades that went awry came from the bank's London unit.
"Recent events at JPMorgan Chase are a stark reminder of how swaps traded overseas can quickly reverberate with losses coming back into the United States," Mr. Gensler said. "Now is not the time to retreat from these much-needed reforms."
Under the proposal, foreign banks involved in more than a very tiny level of derivatives business in the United States will become so-called swap dealers. The swap dealer status comes with enhanced capital requirements and other oversight measures.
In the speech, Mr. Gensler invoked several recent foreign blowups that hit home in the United States. The American International Group, an American insurance company that booked its risky derivatives deals out of London, would have collapsed if not for a major government bailout.
"We've seen this movie before," Mr. Gensler said.

        
Citing JPMorgan Loss, Regulator Pushes New Oversight
        
Commodity Panel Moves to Rein In Speculative Trading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUTURES (93%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); BAILOUTS (69%) C.F.T.C; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Dodd-Frank Act; Gary Gensler; JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Gensler, Gary S; American International Group Inc; Deutsche Bank AG; JPMorgan Chase & Company; UBS A.G; American International Group Inc|AIG|NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; UBS A.G|UBS|NYSE; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (86%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); AMERICAN INSURANCE CO OF TEXAS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (94%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL BANKERS (54%) American International Group Inc; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Deutsche Bank AG; JPMorgan Chase & Company; UBS A.G

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (86%); JPM (LSE) (86%); 8634 (TSE) (86%); BK (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%) American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; American International Group Inc; AIG; NYSE; Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; UBS A.G; UBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (86%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (86%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (86%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: Gensler, Gary S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



559 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: The Clown and the Cop

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Despite what you might hear, not all government spending is bad. 

 BODY:
Trapped with a Fox News big screen in my stable of fellow trotters at the gym a few weeks ago, I took in the worldview that may give the White House to Republicans this year. After burning 400 calories, I was ready to torch the capital.
For almost half an hour I heard another rehash of how my tax dollars were spent on a clown, a comic and a mind reader at a retreat for government workers outside Las Vegas in 2010. Those tin-eared bureaucrats in the General Services Administration spent a total of $835,000. An outrage, of course, and it was typical, I was informed, of runaway government spending under Barack Obama.
Not mentioned during my face time with Fox was a defense bill passed by the House that same day authorizing $642 billion in spending next year - almost $8 billion more than the Defense Department asked for. And this vote broke a promise by the Tea Party-backed Congress, when they agreed last year to cut defense spending over 10 years.
Question: Which is more important, a bunch of clowns spending on a clown, for less than a million dollars, or a Congress that threw more than a thousand times that amount at things that are considered unnecessary - outdated bases, pie-in-the-sky contractor schemes - by the very people who are supposed to spend it?
The clown, clearly. Why? Because most people are unaware that the Republican majority, the same politicians who rode into office in 2010 on a pledge of not spending beyond our means, voted to run up the deficit last month on behalf of those parochial projects.

But nearly everyone knows about the clown, the comic and the mind reader. And to be fair to Fox, which is more than it is on any given day, the lamestream media has had plenty of stories about the Vegas debacle and very little on the padding for the Pentagon.
Elections are about narrative; as such, money and partisan reporting are vital to shape a story line that moves a majority of voters. A central Republican message is that government spending is out of control under Obama, and most of those outlays are wasteful. Do the facts have a chance? Let's give it a try. 
First, you have to go back to Dwight Eisenhower's administration, more than 50 years ago, to find a rate of federal spending growth lower than that of the Obama administration. This counterintuitive conclusion was reported last month by Rex Nutting in MarketWatch, a Web site affiliated with The Wall Street Journal. It's been labeled "mostly true" by the nonpartisan referee Politifact, though others have challenged the premise of the piece. Nutting took much of 2009 out of Obama's column because the spending was authorized in the last year of the Bush presidency. 
But even when he's tagged with most of 2009's outlays - including the stimulus, which saved more than one million jobs - Obama is a relative miser on the growth chart. Still, Mitt Romney continues to say that under Obama, federal spending "has accelerated at a rate without precedent." Of course, Obama would like to spend more, and if given a free hand, may rise to a level justifying Romney's claim.
Which brings us to the second part of the argument, on the nature of government spending. Certainly, there are perennial abuses that feed public distrust. Not just the clown, but municipal workers who get outsize benefits. It erodes support for helping the poor when the director of the Los Angeles Housing Authority can get $260,000 a year in base salary. 
But for every bureaucrat living in a McMansion while doling out vouchers for people in leaky trailers, there are honest cops, hardworking teachers, gutsy firefighters and tireless enforcers of laws that protect our air, water and public lands.
In Romney's view, these public servants are dishonorable, and maybe even less American. "We have 145,000 more government workers under this president," Romney said in Colorado last month. "Let's send them back home and put you back to work."
Again, this is simply not true. Under Obama, public sector employment has fallen by more than 600,000 workers. Obama has tried to increase these rolls - adding teachers, cops and firefighters under federal grants used for the last 50 years - but has been stymied by a Congress that wants to end his presidency by sabotaging the economy. And so long as people believe government money is more likely to be spent on a clown instead of a cop, the Congress can act without consequence.
There's also the notion of "send them home," as if these workers were some kind of foreign element in our midst. They are home, in the uniforms of their calling. Look around, and you'll see them in harm's way, rushing to wildfires in the West, strapping on bullet-proof vests before going out in 100-degree heat, showing up at 6 a.m. to prepare the day's lessons for your kid. 
Steve Jobs famously said in his 2005 Stanford commencement speech that "Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life." Similarly, presidential elections are too important to be guided by someone else's facts.

        
Recall of the Wild
        
Do Nothings and Know Nothings
        
Lincoln's Abolitionist Wedge
        
The Fraud of the Tea Party
        
The Scapegoat of Ball's Bluff

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); MEDIA BIAS (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); POLITICS (69%) Congress; government spending; public servants; Timothy Egan

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (72%) NEVADA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



560 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: Restaurant Industry Moves Against Gas Drilling

BYLINE: GLENN COLLINS


HIGHLIGHT: New York chefs, restaurateurs, food suppliers and industry executives have joined the effort to lobby state leaders to ban a process known as hydraulic fracking. 

 BODY:
Restaurant industry opposition to the controversial gas-drilling method known as hydraulic fracturing is growing as increasing numbers of high-profile New York chefs, restaurateurs, food suppliers and industry executives have joined the effort to lobby Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, the State Legislature and the State Department of Environmental Conservation to ban the process. 
More than 90 kitchen celebrities and food-business leaders have publicly given their support to Chefs for the Marcellus, an anti-fracturing advocacy group named after the natural-gas-rich Marcellus Shale rock formation that runs under several states. 
They include Joshua Applestone of Fleisher's Grass-fed & Organic Meats; Mario Batali of Babbo; Jimmy Carbone of Jimmy's No. 43; Cesare Casella of Salumeria Rosi; Shawn Gawle of Corton; Brooks Headley of Del Posto; Michael Laiskonis of Le Bernardin; Anita Lo of Annisa Restaurant; Patrick Martins of Heritage Foods USA; Zak Pelaccio of Fatty 'Cue; Alex Stupak of Empellon Taqueria, and Bill Telepan (above) of Telepan Restaurant. 
"We're trying to raise a voice against this, signing petitions and writing letters," said Mr. Telepan, who said he had immersed himself in the fracking literature and was disturbed about the impact of the drilling process on farmers, livestock and people. "This goes beyond affecting chefs, it could have a huge impact on those who live in upstate New York. The drinking water, and the land, and the food upstate will be affected - and then all of us will be affected." 
An in The New York Times on Thursday described a plan by Mr. Cuomo to limit drilling to the deepest areas of the Marcellus rock fomation, in an effort to reduce the risk of ground water contamination. 
In fracturing, or fracking, large amounts of sand, water and chemicals are injected deep underground at high pressures to extract natural gas from rock formations. More than 100 communities in New York State have passed moratoriums or bans on fracking. But a few dozen communities have passed resolutions in favor of the drilling process, saying that it would be a boon to job-creation in economically distressed counties, and that the natural-gas leases would give much-needed financial support to many debt-burdened farmers struggling in a poor economy.
Mr. Telepan said that the Marcellus group did not favor limiting hydraulic fracking in the state, but banning it altogether, and that the organization was working to get more signatures on its Web site. It is also organizing a July fund-raiser to further publicize the dangers of fracking.

        
At GoogaMooga, Long Lines, Some Whines and a Sunday Comeback
        
What Do You Listen to in the Kitchen?
        
More About Chefs, Their Recipes and Who Writes Cookbooks
        
Monkey Bar's Belinda Chang Resurfaces
        
Le Bec-Fin's New Chef Is Walter Abrams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (94%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (93%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PETITIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); OIL & GAS LEASES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); WATER POLLUTION (69%); MEATS (69%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (66%); JOB CREATION (50%); WEB SITES (50%) Chefs; Gov Andrew M. Cuomo; hydraulic fracking; Restaurants

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



561 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Grand European Tour Edition

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Despite widespread hand-wringing in Europe, isolated bright spots were produced in the Continent's automotive realm this week. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 On Wednesday in London, BMW inaugurated the first showroom for its i subbrand. The dealership, adjacent to BMW and Mini stores bordering Hyde Park, will open on July 25. In a media release, BMW said London was selected as the subbrand's beachhead because it was "Europe's leading megacity." The i3 and i8 concepts -- the production version of which are not scheduled for sale until 2013 and 2014, respectively -- are displayed at the showroom. BMW is also the official automotive partner of the 2012 London Olympics. (BMW Group)
 The 3-cylinder EcoBoost engine produced by Ford's European division was named International Engine of the Year by a consortium of automotive journalists. The standard 1-liter power plant, which is available in Europe in the Focus and scheduled to become available later this year in the C-Max and B-Max, produces 98 horsepower. Another version is rated at 123 horsepower. Ford said the 1-liter engine would be available in the United States next year, but did not specify which version or in which models it would be offered. (Ford)
 Peugeot opened an in-house design consultancy this week in Paris. Called Peugeot Design Lab, the firm is expected to operate not unlike BMW DesignWorks, the consultancy wholly owned by BMW, by serving clients outside of the automotive industry. A portfolio of the Peugeot lab's work already includes wristwatches, a power boat, bicycles and a jet aircraft. The lab will be led by Cathal Loughnane, a 12-year veteran of PSA Peugeot Citron. (Car Design News)
 In a Twitter message on Wednesday, Hyundai noted that the 2013 Elantra GT hatchback, which was unveiled at the Chicago auto show in February, would be priced from $18,395. The brand's subsequent formal announcement noted the price did not include a $775 delivery charge. With 148 horsepower and a manufacturer-estimated highway fuel-economy rating of 39 miles per gallon, the GT is positioned to compete against the Ford Focus, Mazda 3 and Volkswagen Golf. (Hyundai)
 The promoter of the IndyCar race scheduled for Aug. 19 in Qingdao, China, canceled the race, IndyCar acknowledged Wednesday. According to Randy Bernard, the chief executive of the open-wheel series, the promoter tried to change the date and location of the race, and after "ongoing discussions," the promoter decided to cancel the event. Mr. Bernard is contractually obligated to hold 16 races this season. Eddie Gossage, president of Texas Motor Speedway, told ESPN that he was approached by Mr. Bernard about holding the season finale at his track in Fort Worth. (ESPN)

        
Monday Motorsports: Edwards and Stewart Enter Sprint Cup Finale In Virtual Dead Heat
        
At BMW's New Electric Subbrand, a Young Designer Makes His Mark
        
Wheelies: The Facelift Edition
        
Wheelies: The Rational Exuberance Edition
        
Wheelies: The Miracle-Gro Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTO RACING (89%); SPORTS (84%); OLYMPICS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); POWER PLANTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%) BMW i; BMW i3; BMW i8; China; DesignworksUSA; EcoBoost; Ford; GT; Hyundai Elantra; IndyCar; London; peugeot; Randy Bernard; Automobiles; Engines; Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Ford Motor Company; Hyundai Motor Co; Indy Racing League; Mazda Motor Corp; Peugeot SA; London (England); Texas; Design; Motorsports; New Cars; Technology

COMPANY: BAYERISCHE MOTOREN WERKE AG (BMW) (94%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Bayerische Motorenwerke AG; Ford Motor Company; Hyundai Motor Co; Indy Racing League; Mazda Motor Corp; Peugeot SA

TICKER: BMW (FRA) (94%); BMW (BIT) (94%); UG (PAR) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (50%) TEXAS, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); SHANDONG, CHINA (55%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (90%); FRANCE (79%); ENGLAND (73%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (57%) China; London (England); Texas

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



562 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 2358 words

HEADLINE: An Institutional Flaw at the Heart of the Federal Reserve

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: The selection and duties of board members of the Fed's regional banks leave too much room for the appearance, if not reality, of conflicts of interest, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
On the "PBS NewsHour" in late May, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner indicated that the continued presence of Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, on the board on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York created a perception problem that should be addressed. He used the diplomatic language favored by finance ministers, but the message was loud and clear: Mr. Dimon should resign from the board of the New York Fed. 
Mr. Dimon has been an effective opponent of financial reform over the past four years. He remains an outspoken advocate of the view that global megabanks can manage their own risks, and he has stated publicly that the new international rules on capital requirements are "anti-American." 
Mr. Dimon now finds himself at the center of a number of official investigations into how his bank could have lost so much money so quickly in its London-based trading operation - including whether adverse material information was disclosed to regulators and to markets in a timely manner. 
(The Wall Street Journal reported this week that serious concerns about the London trading operation had been raised - but not made public - two years ago; The New York Times has reported similar concerns. On Wednesday, the Senate Banking Committee questioned Mr. Dimon; the event was inconclusive, perhaps because JPMorgan Chase is a major donor to some members of the committee.)
On Monday, Lee C. Bollinger, chairman of the board of the New York Fed and president of Columbia University, weighed in to contradict Mr. Geithner in no uncertain terms. The Wall Street Journal reported Mr. Bollinger's view: Mr. Dimon should stay on the New York Fed's board, and critics attacking the Fed have a "false understanding" of how it works.
This is a remarkable statement in part because Mr. Geithner is himself a former president of the New York Fed, so it is hard to see how he would have a false understanding of how the Fed works.
More generally, however, Mr. Bollinger's intervention is inadvertently helpful, as it opens the door to a more productive conversation about the exact nature of the institutional weakness that lurks at the heart of the Federal Reserve System and that threatens our financial stability more broadly.
I stick up for the Federal Reserve System in many settings, including on Capitol Hill. We need a central bank that can provide emergency liquidity support when needed. That is a major lesson from the financial disaster and banking collapses that were an integral part of the Great Depression.
A significant number of Americans assert that the central bank should be abolished. With respect, I have argued elsewhere that this view is misguided. But the anti-Fed view continues to gain traction, and versions of it are increasingly manifest among mainstream Republicans (as well as some people on the left of the political spectrum).
The problem is that sensible liquidity support can easily become inappropriate subsidies, particularly when some financial institutions are considered too big to fail. Outsiders will never observe the real-time information on which central banks make decisions, so we need to be able to trust the people running our central bank; otherwise the system will go badly wrong -- again. 
As Esther George, president of the Kansas City Fed, put it recently, the "integrity, dignity and reputation of the Federal Reserve System" need to be preserved. As in ancient Rome, "Caesar's wife must be above suspicion."
Mr. Bollinger's intervention brings a fresh spotlight to a deep governance problem at the heart of the Federal Reserve System - prominent executives in the financial sector and their close allies are much too involved in how the New York Fed operates. This is partly an anachronistic holdover from the original Federal Reserve Act of 1913 - and reflects the political milieu of that time, in which bankers had to be persuaded to accept a central bank (for more background and a lot of relevant technical detail, I recommend Edwin Walter Kemmerer's "The ABC of the Federal Reserve System," published in 1920). 
But it is also an all-too-accurate reflection of where we stand today with regard to global megabanks and the large, nontransparent and highly dangerous subsidies they extract from the rest of society by being too big to fail. 
The people who run global megabanks get the upside when things go well - they are paid based on their return on equity unadjusted for risk, so they prefer a lot of debt piled on top of very little equity. When things go badly, the downside is someone else's problem - in the first instance, typically, the Federal Reserve's.
The New York Fed has a special role - as the eyes and ears of the Federal Reserve System on Wall Street. It is also the repository for much of the expertise of the system on the complexities of modern capital requirements.
The board of the New York Fed has, in part, a mandate to oversee the operations of that bank, including by reviewing and approving its budget and by assessing the performance of its top personnel.
As James Kwak and I noted in our book "13 Bankers," the complacency of the entire Fed system leading up to the financial crisis can be traced in part to the cozy relationship between the New York Fed (headed then by Mr. Geithner) and the Wall Street elite. We cannot let this happen again. Yet all too often with regard to financial reform today, we find the Fed lagging rather than leading.
A version of the pre-2007 governance problem is playing out in full view, this time through interactions between different "classes" of directors at regional Feds. There are three directors in each class, and nine directors in all, at each regional Fed (the Federal Reserve provides an online primer on its structure).
Class A directors are elected by member banks to represent banks. As a matter of practice, bankers have taken these positions - although there is no presumption that any of them should lead a too-big-to-fail institution and no legal requirement that any should actually be bankers. 
The awkwardness raised by the existence of Class A directors was recognized most recently by Congress during the debate on the Dodd-Frank financial reform legislation, as a result of which such directors are no longer involved in selecting the heads of the regional Federal Reserve Banks. They are also not allowed to be engaged in the selection and oversight of supervisory personnel. But this just shifts the exact locus of the problem.
Class B directors are elected by member banks "to represent the public." This is a very strange concept; it's hard to understand how it made sense even in 1913.
The heart of the matter is Class C directors, who are appointed directly by the Fed's Board of Governors also "to represent the public." At most regional Feds today, these directors are typically the chief executive or chief financial officer of a significant regional business. At the New York Fed, however, the three Class C directors are all heads of nonprofits, at least two of which - Columbia University and the Metropolitan Museum of Art - have high-profile fund-raising efforts.
Only Class C directors (and Class B directors, if they are not involved in running a savings institution supervised by the Fed) are involved in overseeing Reserve Bank officers involved in supervision.
The Federal Reserve - both at the Board of Governors level and in New York - sets high ethical standards for its directors in general. But there are apparently no rules that effectively constrain the nature of interaction among directors. 
According to a statement reported on Tuesday by The Guardian, a British newspaper, the JPMorgan Chase Foundation donated about $2 million to Columbia University in recent years.
There are many problematic issues associated with Mr. Dimon's position on the board of the New York Fed, but he is kept well away from supervision. However, his bank is allowed to give money to Mr. Bollinger's university. (The New York Fed allows a Class C director to solicit donations from a Class A director only in his or her "professional role" as head of a nonprofit, not as a fellow board member. This strikes me as a meaningless distinction.)
To anyone who does not work at the Federal Reserve, this kind of monetary transfer to an organization run by a Class C director is obviously inappropriate as it creates a perception problem. I'm surprised it is allowed under the ethics rules of Columbia University. When I asked to put questions to Mr. Bollinger, I was told that he was traveling and unable to talk with me directly. However, through a representative, he did e-mail a statement, part of which reads:
"The Federal Reserve Act embodies the policy judgment by Congress that by creating distinct classes of directors selected from different constituencies and diverse parts of the economy, and with different degrees of association with the financial industry, the Board will be constituted in a manner that allows it to effectively serve the public's interest in expressing views on the state of the economy. Significantly, neither the Board nor any of its individual members have any involvement in the Fed's supervisory responsibilities over financial institutions, nor does the Board have any authority over supervised institutions such as JPMorgan. Supervisory responsibilities are conducted by New York Fed officials under authority provided by the Federal Reserve Board. Prior board chairs ... have been drawn from New York's major business, civic, cultural and educational institutions. As required by statute, the chair is selected from among the Board's Class C directors, appointed by the Board of Governors to represent the public." 
The board of the New York Fed may well express "views on the state of the economy." But it is also formally in charge of the organization in many respects. If it were not, it could have been changed to a purely advisory group long ago. Mr. Bollinger heads not just the board but also its management and budget committee (MBC), which has specific oversight functions that are made quite clear on the New York Fed's Web site. Mr. Dimon is also a member of this committee. 
And either the Class C directors of the New York Fed oversee the "selection, appointment, or compensation of Reserve Bank officers whose primary duties involve supervisory matters" or they do not. This is not a question to which a satisfactory answer can be, "only a little bit." The fact that the Board of Governors is also involved is somewhat reassuring but not decisive - how on the outside are we to know who makes which final decision and on what basis?
The good news is that the sum of donations from Jamie Dimon's firm is small relative to the total fund-raising of Columbia University. A Columbia representative e-mailed me that "regarding JPMorgan Chase and Columbia, it might be helpful to know that placed in the context of the $4.9 billion raised by the university since 2004, JPMorgan Chase is not one of Columbia's major donors. Specifically, over the eight-year period, JPMorgan has given $845,000, as well as $989,000 from its corporate foundation and $121,000 from employee matching gifts to support the university's mission of scholarship, teaching and research. This total represents .04 percent of overall university fund-raising during this period." That should make it easy to return the money to the donors. In fact, I don't think that should even be a long or difficult conversation for the trustees of Columbia, who include Vikram Pandit, the chief executive of Citigroup. Avoiding even the appearance of a conflict of interest is most important for all involved.
To be clear, I am not accusing Mr. Bollinger of any wrongdoing. Mr. Bollinger is a leading legal scholar and one of the top thinkers on and defenders of the First Amendment. (I particularly recommend his "Uninhibited, Robust and Wide Open: A Free Press for a New Century," published in 2010.) The Columbia representative also tells me that Mr. Bollinger has not personally solicited any donations from Mr. Dimon or JPMorgan Chase.
The fault here lies with the rules and expectations set by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
The prevailing view of those at the top of Federal Reserve remains indifferent to how the rest of us view their legitimacy; they live in a bubble - in the old, pre-Greenspan meaning of the expression. And the Board of Governors is making a serious mistake in perpetuating this indifference - jeopardizing, through inaction, the political future of the institution. 
For Ben Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, to seek to shift the blame entirely onto Congress last week is, at best, disingenuous. The Fed Board of Governors has plenty of power to tighten governance at regional Feds, even within the framework provided by existing legislation - a point made in an important opinion article by Jonathan Reiss, an experienced financial services executive, that appeared Wednesday night on Bloomberg View.
In addition, the Federal Reserve Act should be amended. The boards of regional Federal Reserve banks should become advisory groups. If local boards are retained in any fashion, they should be filled with distinguished experts toward the end of their careers - as is the case at the National Transportation Safety Board. 
More broadly and with regard to the substance of the matter, Mr. Bollinger's choice of words was unfortunate. No one has a false understanding of the situation. He has his understanding of how the New York Fed works within the Federal Reserve System. The rest of us, looking in, have a different understanding of the role of the Fed in the boom-bust-bailout cycle that has dominated the last decade or so.
Columbia University should return the donations it received from JPMorgan and the JPMorgan Chase Foundation while Mr. Bollinger was a Class C director. And Mr. Dimon should resign from the board of the New York Fed.

        
Dimon and the Fed's Legitimacy
        
Jamie Dimon and the Fall of Nations
        
Is the New York Fed Making a Big Mistake?
        
Will There Be a Meaningful Volcker Rule?
        
Investigating JPMorgan Chase

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); RESIGNATIONS (56%) banking; banking regulation; Columbia University; Conflicts of Interest (Des);; Daily Economist; Federal Reserve; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Jamie Dimon; Lee Bollinger; Simon Johnson; Timothy Geithner; Bollinger, Lee C; Dimon, James; Geithner, Timothy F; Banking and Financial Institutions; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Federal Reserve System; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (82%) Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (95%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (95%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (93%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%) Bollinger, Lee C; Dimon, James; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



563 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: Painting Romney With the Bush Brush

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: In his Cleveland speech, the president said his rival wants to move the country backwards. 

 BODY:
Mr. Obama gave a major speech in Cleveland today, by which I mean it was really long (6,607 words) and dreary. Mr. Romney spoke the day before, delivering what is now called "a prebuttal," which is sort of like a Star Wars prequel, but just not as interesting or well-acted.
Those who had the patience to get through Mr. Obama's speech, or who are paid to focus, like I am, know he stressed that the economic programs of Republicans past have failed. Failed not only to keep the middle class thriving or even employed, but actually laid the groundwork for the collapse of the housing market, the near-collapse of the financial system and the worst recession in living memory.

In the years before those calamities, he said, "we were told that huge tax cuts, especially for the wealthiest Americans, would lead to faster job growth. We were told that fewer regulations, especially for big financial institutions and corporations, would bring about widespread prosperity. We were told that it was OK to put two wars on the nation's credit card, that tax cuts would create enough growth to pay for themselves."
Mr. Obama said that worked out "pretty well" for the wealthiest Americans, big financial institutions and corporations. But "from 2001 to 2008, we had the slowest job growth in half a century. The typical family saw their incomes fall." Deficits soared, Americans were seduced into buying houses they couldn't afford, with mortgages that banks repackaged and sold as risky derivatives. "Huge, reckless bets were made with other people's money on the line," he said.
He said that Mr. Romney wanted to go back to that sort of approach.
In that, Mr. Obama is entirely correct. Mr. Romney said he would repeal health-care reform, and all of the regulations Congress enacted on the financial industry. He would cut taxes for wealthy Americans and for corporations, while at the same time following the Paul Ryan budget strategy of hacking away at spending on domestic issues.
Mr. Romney also said that Mr. Obama enacted "the most anti-investment, anti-business, anti-jobs series of policies in modern American history" - and offered up as Exhibit A his claim that health care reform is killing jobs and making health care more expensive.
In that, Mr. Romney is entirely wrong.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, which Republicans love to quote when they agree with its conclusions, has said that health care reform is not hurting the economy. (Moreover, the director of the C.B.O., Douglas Elmendorf, said recently that the stimulus "created higher output and employment than would have occurred without it.")
I have two questions. First, is it smart politics for Mr. Obama to paint his rival with the George W. Bush brush? Polls show that Americans blame Mr. Bush more than Mr. Obama for the state of the economy. But, on the other hand, the general dredging-up-the-past tactic could play into the Republican narrative that the president's an "excuse-maker."
Second, will someone edit the president's speeches? They're nearly Castro-length.

        
We Don't Need No Teachers!
        
C.B.O.'s Take on the Stimulus
        
The Spending Binge That Wasn't
        
What Will President Obama Say?
        
Job Creation vs. Profit Creation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); TAX LAW (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); HEALTH CARE LAW (88%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (86%); HISTORY (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); RECESSION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%) Barack Obama; Congressional Budget Office; George W. Bush; health care reform; Mitt Romney; stimulus spending; Bush, George W; Ryan, Paul D Jr; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%) Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); PAUL RYAN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (87%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Bush, George W; Ryan, Paul D Jr

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



564 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Pressured, E.P.A. Proposes Soot Limit

BYLINE: LESLIE KAUFMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A rule proposed in response to a lawsuit filed by 11 states would set significantly tighter limits on fine-particulate emissions from the energy and manufacturing sectors. 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency has proposed new national air quality standards that would significantly reduce levels of fine-particle soot.
The rule, to be announced on Friday, would reduce the range of fine particulates allowed in the atmosphere by roughly 17 percent, according to an agency official who spoke on condition of anonymity, and Paul G. Billings, a vice president of the American Lung Association, who said he had been briefed on the standard by Obama administration officials. 
A Thursday deadline had been imposed by a federal judge in a legal battle waged by 11 states and health and conservation groups.
Still, the industry and many Congressional Republicans are likely to oppose that level - 12 to 13 micrograms per cubic foot of air, down from 15, calculated on an annual basis - as burdensome and potentially damaging to the economy. 
The agency is required to issue a final rule by mid-December after holding hearings to seek public comment. Under the Clean Air Act, the E.P.A. is required to consider revising its soot standards every five years, and it last did so in 2006. Yet as it approached the five-year deadline last October, it said it wanted to delay issuing the rule until the summer of 2013 because it needed more time to sift through the latest scientific research.
Eleven states, including New York and California, and the American Lung Association and the National Parks Conservation Association, challenged the delay in court, arguing that it violated the Clean Air Act.
On June 2, Judge Robert L. Wilkins of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ordered the E.P.A. to sign a proposed rule by June 7, a deadline that was later extended to Thursday under an agreement between the agency and the plaintiffs.
Fine-particle soot, which can settle deep into the lungs and the circulatory system, is among the deadliest contaminants to which the American public is regularly exposed and causes thousands of premature deaths annually from heart and lung complications.
The E.P.A.'s proposal comes asPresident Obama faces both a re-election battle focusing on his handling of the economy and fierce opposition from Congressional Republicans on any new environmental regulation. In one concession, the administration backed off last September from efforts to tighten ozone regulations - a delay that has also been challenged by states and public health advocates in federal court.
The proposed soot rule is certain to be debated until a final particulate level for the new standard is set after the November elections.
Public health advocates praised the proposed rule as an effective one, if overdue, that could help prevent tens of thousands of premature deaths each year from asthma, heart attacks and lung disease.
"The American Lung Association is pleased that they have proposed a much tighter particle pollution standard that will prevent thousands of premature deaths and tens of thousands of asthma attacks each year," Mr. Billings said. "We will examine the proposal and work through the public comment process to urge the most protective standard."
He said his group hoped to persuade the agency to further reduce the allowable range of soot, to 11 micrograms per cubic meter.
But Jeffrey R. Holmstead, who led the E.P.A.'s Air Office under the administration of PresidentGeorge W. Bush and is now a partner at Bracewell & Giuliani, a lobbying firm with clients in energy and manufacturing, predicted that such an increase would result in a vast array of restrictions for those sectors. "It may not sound like much, lowering the standard from 15 to 13, but it will mean a lot more regulations in many parts of the country," he said. "I suspect this action will attract a lot of attention from the Hill."
Disputes over new standards for soot, which includes tiny particles less than one-30th of the diameter of a human hair that come largely from combustive activities like running cars and industrial power plants, have dragged on for years.
Enforcement of the "annual" maximum ceiling for fine particulates is based on an average measured on a rolling basis over a year. That standard has not been updated since 1997.
In 2006, the Bush administration lowered its so-called 24-hour soot ceiling by nearly half, to 35 micrograms per cubic meter. But it said that the science on health consequences did not justify lowering the annual ceiling.
That decision led to an uproar because the E.P.A. administrator,Stephen L. Johnson, had bypassed the recommendations of the agency's staff as well as those of independent science advisers.

        
E.P.A. Soot Rules Expected This Week
        
For California, a Rebuff on 2 Pollution Plans
        
New York City Finances Switch to Cleaner Heating Oils
        
Swapping Out Charcoal With Ethanol
        
States Sue E.P.A. Over Delayed Soot Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); PARTICULATE MATTER (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); AIR QUALITY (91%); LITIGATION (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ASTHMA (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); JUDGES (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); HEART DISEASE (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (65%) e.p.a.; fine particulates; lawsuits and litigation; soot; Obama, Barack; Air Pollution; Clean Air Act; Suits and Litigation; American Lung Assn; Environmental Protection Agency; United States; Breaking News; Emissions Reduction

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (93%) American Lung Assn; Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



565 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: 'Upfront' Ad Sales Yield Higher Rates, Steady Volume

BYLINE: STUART ELLIOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Fox finished its sales of commercial time ahead of the 2012-13 season on Thursday, completing the "upfront" market for the English-language broadcast networks. 

 BODY:
Fox has finished its sales of commercial time ahead of the 2012-13 TV season, completing the "upfront" market for the English-language broadcast networks.
With the wrap-up of deals at Fox, part of News Corporation, analysts are tallying the totals -- in dollar volume and in the rates to reach each 1,000 viewers, known as cpms -- for the five English-language broadcasters, which are, in addition to Fox, ABC, CBS, CW and NBC.
The totals are somewhat difficult to determine because almost all the figures are estimates and subject to change. Directionally, it seems that the five networks took in about the same amount in dollars that they did in the upfront market last spring, which was pegged at around $9 billion to $9.3 billion.
That was deemed a bit disappointing because some analysts had forecast a total for 2012-13 that would be 2 to 3 percent higher than it was before the start of the 2010-11 season.

The recent concerns about the state of the American economy did not help the sales executives, nor did the rumblings about the growing interest in advertising through online video versus traditional TV.
Ad rates, however, rose for the five networks compared with last year, by 5 to 9 percent. The increases in cpms were not as large as they were last year compared with the year before, when the percentages rose by the high single-digits to the low double-digits. But the gains meant the networks achieved a very solid two-year hike in ad rates from spring 2010 to spring 2012.
Estimates are that Fox made deals for spots worth somewhere between $1.9 billion and $1.99 billion. In the upfront market last spring, Fox was said to have taken in an amount in the vicinity of $1.98 billion to $1.99 billion.
As for cpms, Fox won increases that were estimated by some at 8 to 9 percent and by others at 7 to 9 percent.
Fox sold about 80 percent of its available total commercial inventory, about the same as last year. Spots that are not sold in the upfront market are held back to sell during the season itself in what is known as the scatter market.
NBC also sold about 80 percent of its commercial inventory during its upfront sales. By contrast, ABC, CBS and CW decided to sell a bit less now and hold back a bit more to sell later; their sales were in an area estimated at 75 to 78 percent.
The difference between selling now and selling later is whether a network believes it is better to book the money now in case demand slackens later, or whether it believes it is better to make the sales later because demand will grow.
Given that the volume totals did not increase much, if at all, from the upfront last spring, it seems that demand is less robust than had been forecast. Whether demand will remain that way, grow or even fall off more is a big question confronting the networks' owners.
Following are links to reports on the completion of upfront sales at the four other networks. CW finished first, followed by CBS, ABC, NBC and then Fox.
ABC (part of the Walt Disney Company)
CBS (part of CBS Corporation)
CW (a joint venture of the CBS Corporation and Time Warner)
NBC part of the NBCUniversal division of Comcast)
With the completion of sales by the broadcasters, attention turns to the upfront market for cable channels, which has been taking place in a parallel pace. Channels owned by NBCUniversal, Turner Broadcasting System and Viacom have been steadily selling commercial time, as has the Spanish-language broadcasters like Telemundo and Univision.

        
TV Content Ratings System Set to Expand to Web
        
Dish Seeks Ruling on Feature That Skips All Commercials
        
America Has 'Idol' Fatigue, as Finale Is Lowest Rated in Its History
        
Falling Interest in 'American Idol' as It Prepares to Crown a Winner
        
Fox Fall Lineup Makes a Bet on Comedy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERNET VIDEO (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%) fox; Upfronts 2012; Advertising and Marketing; Television; ABC Inc; CBS Corporation; CW Television Network; Fox Broadcasting Co; National Broadcasting Co; CBS Corporation|CBS|NYSE; advertising; Marketing

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ABC Inc; CBS Corporation; CW Television Network; Fox Broadcasting Co; National Broadcasting Co

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (85%); NWS (ASX) (85%) CBS Corporation; CBS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



566 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Delineation

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
Under the cloud of an anemic economic recovery, President Obama will discuss the economy today in Cleveland. Helene Cooper writes that the president must parse his economic message carefully as he seeks to present this year's election as a stark choice between a Democratic vision of lifting the middle class versus a return to trickle-down economics that failed in the Bush era.
Having injected more than $35 million into "super PACs" backing Republicans in the 2012 campaign, including $10 million on Wednesday to a super PAC backing Mitt Romney, the billionaire Sheldon Adelson has distinguished himself as a prolific campaign donor. But more importantly, Nicholas Confessore writes, the flood of money from Republican donors has far outpaced Democrats' fund-raising and it has given deep-pocketed donors unprecedented power in the presidential contest.
The Justice Department says it will not retry its campaign-corruption case against former Senator John Edwards. Kim Severson reports on that decision and other fallout from the case in which a jury could not reach a verdict on five charges that Mr. Edwards, a 2008 Democratic presidential candidate, used campaign donations to cover up an extramarital affair. He was acquitted on a sixth charge. 
Ann Romney's contemporary look on the campaign trail offers a departure from the stiff look of traditional campaign spouses. Ruth La Ferla writes that it's drawn the attention of observers looking to decode her fashion choices.
Around the Web:
The gridlock on Capitol Hill is due, in part, to an expectation among Republican lawmakers that more conservatives will arrive in the next session to help cut deals more favorable to their party, The Wall Street Journal reports.
The Washington Post examines why presidential campaigns spend so much money on ads, even though their effect on voters has been marginal.
Happening in Washington
Economic reports expected Thursday at 8:30 a.m. include the consumer price index for May, weekly jobless claims, and trade deficit data for the first quarter. Weekly mortgage rates follow at 10.
At 8:45, the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee holds a hearing on competing and collaborating with China on clean energy.
At 10, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee holds a hearing to discuss the Law of the Sea Treaty, a United Nations treaty that governs how nations and businesses use oceans and marine resources.
At noon, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta participate in bilateral talks with their South Korean counterparts.

        
The Early Word: Dialing for Dollars
        
The Early Word: Rifts
        
The Weekend Word: Investigation
        
The Early Word: Disapproval
        
The Early Word: Wisconsin, the Next Chapter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (85%); FOREIGN POLICY (84%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); JURY TRIALS (72%); VERDICTS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); FUNDRAISING (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); CORRUPTION (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); ACQUITTAL (67%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (65%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (64%); LAW OF THE SEA (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); OCEANS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); LEON E PANETTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



567 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Romney Campaigns Face Off in Ohio

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: The geographic terrain of the 2012 presidential campaign will narrow on Thursday to a 250-mile stretch between Cleveland and Cincinnati, two cities that will hold dueling events by President Obama and Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
The geographic terrain of the 2012 presidential campaign will narrow on Thursday to a 250-mile stretch in Ohio between Cleveland and Cincinnati, the two cities that will play host to dueling events by President Obama and Mitt Romney.
The two men will give speeches in Ohio, an important swing state, just five minutes apart, creating a kind of political split-screen moment that will become more common in the months ahead.
At 1:45 p.m. Eastern time, Mr. Obama will speak at the Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland, on what his campaign promises will be an effort to contrast two different visions for the country's economy.
"The other side's plan is a $5 trillion tax cut that explodes the deficit while gutting the investments we need to grow," Jay Carney, the president's press secretary, told reporters.
Meanwhile, Mr. Romney will be at Seilkop Industries in Cincinnati, where aides said he would continue laying out what he would do on Day 1 if elected. The list includes dismantling regulations and the health care law and approving the Keystone pipeline.
"Really, at the end, the biggest difference is with Governor Romney you are going to have a president who won't be hostile to job creators," Russ Schriefer, a senior adviser to Mr. Romney, told reporters on Wednesday. 
The arrival of both presidential campaigns to Ohio underscores the importance of the state's 18 electoral votes in the fall election. Both camps are planning to pour resources into advertisements and voter-turnout efforts to ensure a victory. 
But the messages in Ohio may be different than they are elsewhere in the country. Unlike some other parts of the economically struggling Rust Belt, Ohio is doing better: unemployment is below the national average. The natural gas industry in the state is booming.
For Mr. Romney, the turnaround in Ohio could complicate his efforts to portray the president as having failed to coax the country back to economic health. Voters in the state may be less inclined to view the president's tenure through the same grim lens as residents of other states.
But aides said on Wednesday that Mr. Romney will give credit for the improving local economic situation to John R. Kasich, Ohio's Republican governor, and not to Mr. Obama. 
"When you have Republican governors who encourage business, things are better," Mr. Schriefer said. 
"The problem is they still have this weight of the White House and the Obama administration on top of them," he added. "This weight of an uncertain future, of Obamacare, of what regulation are they going to think up next."
For Mr. Obama, Ohio offers a test of his efforts to make the presidential election a stark choice between Mr. Romney's policies and his own.
Aides to the president said Wednesday that Mr. Obama will use his speech in Cleveland to portray his Republican rival as the proponent of a trickle-down philosophy of economics in which lax regulations and lower taxes will help the free market solve everyone's problems.
"The president believes the economy grows not from the top down, but from the middle class up, and he has an economic plan to do that," an adviser to the president's campaign said.
The challenge for the president,as noted by Helene Cooper in The Times Thursday morning, is to communicate that aggressive message while defending himself against charges that he is out of touch with those Americans who are struggling.
The more Mr. Obama goes to a place like Ohio and spotlights the economic recovery there, the more Mr. Romney and his allies will accuse the president of being blind to the serious troubles elsewhere.
That's the trap that Mr. Obama found himself in last week when he tried to draw a distinction between the relative health of the private and public sector economies. Saying the "private sector is doing fine," immediately opened himself up to charges that he didn't understand the economy.
That will be the main argument on Thursday as the two men come about as close as they've ever been to an in-person debate about their economic ideas.
At some point this fall, they will debate each other on three separate occasions, providing the best chance for the public to weigh their arguments side by side.
Until then, Thursday's long-distance face-off in Ohio will just have to do.

        
Obama Campaign's New Attack on Romney's Record as Governor
        
Romney's Unemployment Rate Dilemma
        
Jobs Reports Offer Opportunities and Dangers for Obama and Rivals
        
Romney Talks Economy in Nevada
        
Romney Ad a Response to Obama Attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); POLITICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TAX LAW (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); HEALTH CARE LAW (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); TAX RELIEF (54%) 2012; economy; mitt romney; Ohio; president obama; Presidential Election of 2012; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Elections; The 44th President; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (93%); JOHN KASICH (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



568 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: New Romney Ad Mirrors 2008 Obama Spot

BYLINE: JEREMY W. PETERS


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney steals a trick from an unlikely source for his latest campaign ad, but in this case, imitation is more mockery than the sincerest form of flattery. 

 BODY:
Mitt Romney steals a trick from an unlikely source for his latest ad: President Obama. But in this case, imitation is more mockery than the sincerest form of flattery.
A new 30-second Romney campaign commercial called "Doing Fine" copies the music, pacing and script nearly verbatim from a 2008 Obama ad that took Senator John McCain to task for his well-known remark that "the fundamentals of our economy are strong."
But in the new ad, the Romney campaign takes the president's recent statement - "the private sector is doing fine" - and uses it to make him appear out of touch.
Viewers see a litany of depressing economic statistics: 23.2 million Americans looking for work; 40 straight months of over 8 percent unemployment; millions of homeowners with mortgages underwater. Then the president is shown behind the lectern in the White House briefing room.
The text on screen asks incredulously: "The private sector is doing fine? How can President Obama fix our economy if he doesn't understand it's broken?"
In the 2008 Obama ad, the setup was the same. Viewers were shown a raft of numbers and grim facts, although more devastating ones: 605,000 jobs lost; the collapse of Lehman Brothers; 9,800 home foreclosures a day.
And the kicker? Sub Mr. McCain's name for the president's: "How can John McCain fix our economy if he doesn't understand it's broken?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CAUCUSES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STATISTICS (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); EMPLOYMENT (67%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Ad Watch; Elections; The Caucus

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



569 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Romney Should Hone Economic Message, Walker Says

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY


HIGHLIGHT: Scott Walker, who has emerged as a leading voice in the Republican Party after becoming the nation's first governor to survive a recall, said Mr. Romney needed to broaden his appeal beyond Republicans to carry Wisconsin in November. 

 BODY:
Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who became a champion to conservatives after fending off a recall effort last week, offered a bit of advice to Mitt Romney: Refine your economic message and give people a reason to vote for you, rather than simply against President Obama.
"I don't know that voters are there yet with Governor Romney," Mr. Walker said on Thursday. "It doesn't mean that he doesn't talk about it, it doesn't mean that he hasn't thought about it, but I think he's got to have a simple message of not only why we need to replace the current occupant in the White House, but also why he would be better."
Mr. Walker, who has emerged as a leading voice in the Republican Party after becoming the nation's first governor to survive a recall, said Mr. Romney needed to broaden his appeal beyond Republicans to carry Wisconsin in November. He urged Mr. Romney to take a lesson from what voters demanded in his race and brand himself as someone who is committed to tackling government spending and other difficult issues.
"If Romney's going to have a shot in our state, you can't win with just Republican votes," Mr. Walker said, speaking at a breakfast sponsored by The Christian Science Monitor. "He's got to get beyond the Republicans. He's got to be viewed as a reformer, somebody who is going to make life better and put our state and country back on track."
He added: "He's got a shot, but my win alone is not enough, he's got to build off that."
In an hourlong session with reporters on Thursday during a visit to Washington, Mr. Walker said he believed Wisconsin would resume its role as a key battleground in the fall. Democrats have won the last six presidential elections in the state, but he said the 2012 race could be just as competitive as 2000 and 2004, when George W. Bush lost by a narrow margin.
"Our state is going to flip back and forth between now and November," Mr. Walker said. "There will be polls one week that show Romney up and polls that show the president up the next week."
Mr. Walker is the latest Republican to gently urge Mr. Romney to take a bolder approach in his campaign against Mr. Obama. The 10 electoral votes in Wisconsin, which Mr. Obama easily won four years ago, could be more competitive given the combustible political environment in Wisconsin after Democrats failed in their effort to recall Mr. Walker, who cut collective bargaining rights for most of the state's public workers.
Mr. Romney is visiting Wisconsin on Monday as part of a five-day tour through crucial swing states. His campaign is eager to encroach on the terrain that Mr. Obama carried four years ago, hoping to expand the battleground map of states that Democrats need to defend.

        
Romney Predicts a Victory in Wisconsin Primary
        
Obama and Romney Campaigns Face Off in Ohio
        
Campaigns Use Opponent's Words, and Cry Foul
        
The Caucus Click: The Week in Pictures
        
Romney Ad a Response to Obama Attack

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); RELIGION (50%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (50%) mitt romney; Scott Walker; Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Politics and Government; Wisconsin; Elections

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (94%); MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Romney, Mitt; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



570 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 14, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Romney Assails Obama for Favoring Words Over Action

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: Speaking at a family-owned factory in Cincinnati, Mitt Romney tried to take the steam out of President Obama's economic speech. 

 BODY:
CINCINNATI -- Mitt Romney, seeking to overshadow an appearance by the president in Ohio on Thursday, mocked President Obama as a candidate of words, not deeds, whose eloquent speechmaking abilities have not been matched by the effectiveness of his economic policies.
Giving his own economic speech in the same state where Mr. Obama was presenting his, Mr. Romney said that the president's re-election campaign felt compelled to deliver a major address on the economy "because he hasn't delivered a recovery for the economy."
"Now, I know that he will have all sorts of excuses, and he'll have all sorts of ideas he'll describe about how he'll make things better," Mr. Romney said. "But what he says and what he does are not always the exact same thing. And so if people want to know how his economic policies have worked and how they perform, why they can talk to their neighbor and ask if things are better."
"As you look at the president's record, it is long on words and short on action that created jobs," Mr. Romney said during a speech here at a family-owned factory that manufactures industrial products.
Mr. Romney, whose staff hastily moved up the timing of his speech to beat Mr. Obama to the podium, assailed Mr. Obama's health care overhaul, financial regulation, energy policies and approach to international trade agreements as hostile to businesses and obstacles to an economic recovery.
He called on Americans to judge the president on his record, not his rhetoric. 
"In my experience in thinking about people who I want to have work for me, whether it's my doctor or the person that's going to be painting the house, I want to make sure they do a good job the first time," he said. "And if they didn't, I want someone who can do a better job."
As he has in the past, Mr. Romney pledged to repeal the Affordable Care Act, pursue punitive trade policies against China and approve a pipeline that would carry oil to the United States from Canada, which the Obama administration has delayed.
"If I have to build it myself to get it here, I'll get that oil into America," Mr. Romney said of the pipeline.
The Romney campaign is seeking to portray Mr. Obama as increasingly out of touch with the harsh economic reality facing ordinary Americans, deploying a critique that Democrats have long made against Mr. Romney. Aides argue that Mr. Obama has opened himself to such a line of attack by declaring that the "private sector is doing fine," a line that Mr. Romney has repeated, daily, for the past week in assailing the president.
On Thursday, his campaign issued its third advertisement featuring a clip of the president making the remark, which it juxtaposed with a litany of grim economic statistics and newspaper headlines. "How can President Obama fix our economy," the ad asks, "if he doesn't understand it's broken?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ENERGY REGULATION (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; Democratic Party; China; Ohio; United States; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (93%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); CANADA (79%) China; Ohio; United States

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



571 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1680 words

HEADLINE: Islands Buffeted By Currents Of Change

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
In size, cultural scope and freshness of material, the three-museum exhibition ''Caribbean: Crossroads of the World'' is the big art event of the summer season in New York, itself one of the largest Caribbean cities.
To take in the entire thing requires traveling between the Studio Museum in Harlem and El Museo del Barrio, both in Manhattan, and across the East River to the Queens Museum of Art in Flushing. If you're short on time or patience, any single segment is dense and vivid enough to give you the flavor of the whole. But if you can see all three, absolutely do.
Each tells a hugely complex story from a different thematic angle -- collectively, a telling that has been long in the planning, and is long overdue. (Caribbean material has thus far not shared in the aura of glamour that has gathered around Latin American art.) While not strictly speaking a masterpiece show, its like won't be attempted again on this scale and in this depth for some time. 
The story is woven as much from questions as from answers, from intangibles as from facts. Is the Caribbean a place? If so, what are its boundaries? Are Florida and Colombia as much part of it as Cuba? Is there a Caribbean culture, and how do you define it, given the mix of African, Asian, European and indigenous elements that blend, in quite different proportions, on some three dozen islands in the region?
And even if the Caribbean is defined, loosely and poetically, as a state of mind, a mood, how do you capture that in an exhibition, when so much of that mood has, traditionally, been expressed more in music and performance than in static visual forms?
A team of nine scholars and curators -- Gerald Alexis, Rocio Aranda-Alvarado, Deborah Cullen, Hitomi Iwasaki, Naima J. Keith, Yolanda Wood Pujols, Lowery Stokes Sims and Edward J. Sullivan, led by Elvis Fuentes, curator for special projects at El Museo del Barrio -- has pondered these matters, produced a book that is sure to become a staple reference, and shaped an exhibition so crowded with unexpected sights as to appear at times practically shapeless, absorptive rather than expository.
It says a lot that although few interpretive labels accompany the more than 500 objects assembled, many of which cry out for elucidation, the show still makes sense.
Even as you puzzle over the details -- What's this? Why is it here? -- you get the big picture.
Historically the picture starts at the Studio Museum, late in the 18th century. By this time indigenous peoples throughout the Caribbean had been suppressed; masses of captive Africans had been imported; a white population, largely mercantile, had settled in. From a European perspective the region had become the subject of myths -- pleasurable, fearful and often centered on race.
For decades emigre painters to the Caribbean, many working for colonial estate holders, had depicted life there as a sequence of serene multicultural picnics set in parklike tropical gardens. All imagined idylls were decisively shattered, however, in 1791, with the slave rebellion in Haiti that led to that country's independence from France.
The uprising coincided with the French Revolution, when the ideal of the brotherhood of man was ascendant in Europe. In that spirit a leader of the Haitian struggle, Jean-Baptiste Belley, a former slave born in Senegal, was elected to the National Convention in Paris. There's a remarkable chalk drawing of him in the show, by Anne-Louis Girodet de Roussy-Trioson, a student of Jacques-Louis David.
Dated 1797, it depicts him wearing a stylish European waistcoat and posed like a classical Apollo. At the same time his fastidiously detailed Negroid features and provocatively sexualized body make him look less a Romantic political hero than a well-dressed New World wild man.
Racial difference, as an alien and threatening reality, formed the fundamental view of the Caribbean -- as it did, and still does, of Africa -- in the eyes of much of the rest of the world.
A second gallery at the Studio Museum, labeled ''Land of the Outlaw,'' is filled with European images of the Antilles as a nightmare of ravenous beasts, hostile natives and monstrous phantoms associated with indigenous religions.
But monstrous is in the eye of the image maker. Race, or the perception of it, can function as a social unifier; it can also be approached as an unstable and alterable condition. The exhibition includes an amazing sculpture, pieced together almost entirely from matchsticks by the contemporary Jamaican artist Dudley Irons, of Marcus Garvey's fabled Black Star Liner, conceived as a trans-Atlantic slave ship in reverse, bringing former slaves back to Africa from America.
And there's a knockout collage portrait, finished last year, by Ebony G. Patterson, who divides her time between Jamaica and Lexington, Ky., of a young black man with a masklike white face. The image refers to the often-against-the-law world of Jamaican dance-hall culture, and specifically to its fashion for skin-bleaching as a cosmetic means of both attracting attention and -- playing around with the idea, dating back to slavery and forward to Michael Jackson -- determining social status based on skin color.
Ms. Patterson's glitter-encrusted portrait, part monument, part mug shot, suggests the double-edged potential of radical identity transformation. It pays off with immediate rewards, but you may not like where it takes you, and there may be no going back. Applied to other, broader subjects, this is also the theme of the section of the show installed at El Museo del Barrio.
In the first gallery we find 18th- and 19th-century paintings, by European artists and Caribbean ones trained in European styles, of the colonized islands as an earthly Eden. Yet there is subtle evidence that we're seeing a labor-intensive profit-making paradise, with sugar and tobacco as early export commodities, and oil coming later.
And it becomes increasingly clear, as idealized views of Caribbean life recede in art, that the producers of these commodities not only derived little benefit from them but also incurred direct harm. Working conditions were harsh; the drive for productivity was ruining land. In Albert Huie's 1955 painting ''Crop Time'' black smoke pouring from a processing-plant chimney darkens the Jamaican sky.
In recent decades offshore oil drilling, which can pollute water and contaminate beaches, has endangered the one major cash-generating resource Caribbean residents can claim as their own: tourism, with its vision of island life as state of natural purity and innocence. That vision has been in wide circulation throughout the West for centuries.
We see it in an 1856 painting by Camille Pissarro of St. Thomas, where he was born; in exuberant prints Paul Gauguin made after visiting Martinique; in art by sojourning European Surrealists; and in work by Caribbean artists who chose not to join the international Modernist mainstream but rather to seek what felt like a truer foundation in their native or national cultures.
But there is no pure state, no unblemished source, no unburdened goal, as the show repeatedly emphasizes. That's the message in William Blake's dolorous poem ''The Little Black Boy'' from ''Songs of Innocence and of Experience,'' seen in a hand-colored 1789 etching. And it's the reality implied in a 1990s sculpture called ''All-Stars'' by the Jamaican-born artist Nari Ward, which consists of a baseball bat -- contemporary Caribbean emblem of heroic aspiration -- wrapped in medical tape, bristling with nails and coated with raw sugar, on which bits of cotton are stuck like fungal growths.
Reality itself -- social, economic, spiritual -- is in a constant state of flux, and this is the theme of the portion of the show at the Queens Museum of Art, where the dominating images are of change and interchange, embodied in the movement of water. In painting, photographs and videos we see it sluicing among islands, washing against shorelines, penetrating interiors, carrying trading ships and battleships, fishing boats and ferries.
Its flow is even echoed in the flow of air currents that carry aloft a fabulously absurdist wooden airplane designed and built by Charles Juhasz-Alvarado, an artist based in Puerto Rico of irrepressible imagination.
And, of course, where there are boats and planes, there are people coming and going. For centuries the Caribbean has received, and sent out, streams of them: Africans, Americans, Arabs, Chinese, Europeans, Sephardic Jews, South Asians, all bringing art, attitudes, cuisines, languages and religions with them. They're all represented in the large second part of the Queens installation, built around the theme of carnival. And here the dizzying array of visual impressions characteristic of the show overall becomes almost overwhelming.
Paintings are ganged together on walls. Figural sculptures teeter across the floor. Masks pop up in 19th-century prints, in paintings by Ada Balcacer, Minnie Evans and Rene Portocarrero; in collages by K. Khalfani Ra; and in sculptures by Peter Minshall. The great Everald Brown supplies unearthly musical instruments; there are rituals, religious and secular, and festival dances everywhere.
If you've come this far -- or even if you've seen only one of the show's three segments -- you will have encountered histories you never knew and artists you have rarely, if ever, heard of.
Isn't telling us what we don't know part of the job of museums? In this case three small institutions with limited staff and resources have cast their nets wide and dug deep, and come up with something big.
It's a summertime vision of worlds within worlds. And one of those worlds is the crossroads that is our city.
Island Hopping
''Caribbean: Crossroads of the World''
STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM Through Oct. 21, 144 West 125th Street; (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org.
EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO Through Jan. 6, 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem; (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org.
QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART Sunday through Jan. 6, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park; (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Caribbean: Crossroads of the World: Enrique Grau Araujo's ''Mulata Cartagenera'' (1940), at El Museo del Barrio, is part of this exhibition, also on view at the Studio Museum in Harlem and the Queens Museum of Art. (C21)
Top, hanging at left, Charles Juhasz-Alvarado's ''Vanishing Point: Multiple for Assembly'' (2003), and at right, Alejandro Aguilera's ''Che y Carlos Santana'' (2006), at the Queens Museum of Art. Above, Gustavo Esquina's ''Cimarron Archangel'' (2002) at Studio Museum.
 Top, Ebony G. Patterson's ''Untitled, Species I'' (2010-11), foreground, refers to skin-bleaching in Jamaican dance-hall culture. Below left, ''Black Star Liner'' (1995), foreground, by Dudley Irons. Below right, ''Seven Brothers'' (1966), by Mallica Reynolds, known as Kapo. All are at the Studio Museum in Harlem. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (97%); UNITED STATES (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



572 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Some Large Works And Big Changes At This Year's Art Basel

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
BASEL, Switzerland -- The day before the invitation-only opening of Art Basel, scores of collectors and dealers gathered in the cavernous building that houses Art Unlimited, the annual show of super-size artworks. Word had spread quickly about an extraordinary photo-realist painting by the Italian-born artist Rudolf Stingel. Based on a 1980s photograph of the New York dealer Paula Cooper looking glamorous with sultry eyes and a cigarette in one hand, the large canvas (it measures 11 by 15 feet) was hung dramatically in a space by itself. Its price was around $3 million, and it was bought by Francois Pinault, the French luxury goods magnate and owner of Christie's, before the fair even opened.
''Stingel created the painting just for Art Unlimited,'' said Steven P. Henry, director of the Paula Cooper Gallery in Chelsea. ''He's been working on it for months.''
The economic crisis may have left the average American family with a shrinking bank account -- and most Europeans in an even more precarious financial position -- but in the tiny Never-Never Land that is the international art world, there is a conspicuous display of disposable income. 
Art Basel, which opened on Wednesday and runs through Sunday, is as grand as ever, with 300 galleries from 36 countries exhibiting. And it still attracts the stars of contemporary art, including the collectors Eli Broad, the Los Angeles financier; Steven A. Cohen, the hedge fund billionaire; Jerry I. Speyer, the real estate developer and chairman of the Museum of Modern Art; and Laurence Graff, the London jeweler. Museum directors are here too, including Nicholas Serota, from the Tate in London; Richard Armstrong, who runs the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation; Lisa Phillips, director of the New Museum in New York; and Alain Seban, president of the Pompidou Center in Paris.
There are several noticeable changes at this year's fair. Rather than one opening day for art world V.I.P.'s, there were two. The reason, the organizers said, was to make the fair less crowded and more pleasant for serious buyers. But many dealers, who declined to be named for fear of being thrown out of the fair next year, said that with more time to buy, the exciting, now-or-never rush of having to make a quick decision had evaporated. Some dealers were also unhappy about having to give their client lists to the fair organizers to issue the V.I.P. invitations, rather than having the galleries themselves do it.
The art on view at Art Unlimited is also different. Rather than a hodgepodge of oversize objects, it is a more carefully conceived exhibition, put together for the first time by Gianni Jetzer, director of the Swiss Institute/Contemporary Art in New York. In addition to Ms. Cooper's portrait, another crowd pleaser was ''Untitled (Scatter Piece),'' from 1968-69, by the American artist Robert Morris. The installation consists of 200 pieces of industrial materials seemingly randomly placed in a space, first shown when it was made, at the Castelli Gallery in New York. (This version comes from Barbara Castelli, the widow of the dealer Leo Castelli, who is showing it in collaboration with Spruth Magers, a gallery with spaces in Berlin and London.) Like most everything here, it is for sale; the price is $1.45 million.
''Untitled (Scatter Piece)'' was among many works of older art. Conservative, classic modern paintings and sculptures were everywhere.
''Dealers are aware that collectors want to put their money in things that will endure,'' said Tobias Meyer, chairman of contemporary art at Sotheby's worldwide. ''And the prices of these traditional works are now at levels that were once reserved only for masters like Picasso, Matisse and Brancusi.''
At the main fair, in a chapel-like installation, watched over by a security guard, at Marlborough Fine Art, was Rothko's ''Untitled, 1954,'' a yellow-and-pink abstract canvas. The painting was auctioned at Christie's in New York in 2007. A Swiss collector bought it for $26.9 million and is now hoping to get $78 million. The markup -- and its presence here -- was inspired by the nearly $87 million record that someone (some say it was the businessman Leonard Blavatnik) paid at Christie's last month for ''Orange, Red, Yellow,'' a dreamy 1961 Rothko.
''That auction was the incentive,'' said Andrew Renton, director of Marlborough Contemporary in London. ''Rothko is finally being recognized as one of the great masters of the 20th century, and this is the moment.''
Throughout the fair there are many works by artists who brought top prices at last month's big New York auctions. Gerhard Richter is one. At the Pace Gallery, Mr. Richter's ''A. B. Courbet,'' an abstract canvas from 1986, sold to an unidentified American collector on Wednesday, gallery officials reported. The asking price was $25 million.
The fair is also filled with works by artists who have recently had a big retrospective -- John Chamberlain and Cindy Sherman -- or are about to, like Wade Guyton, whose show at the Whitney Museum of American Art opens in October.
There have been a few less predictable touches. Almine Rech, a Paris dealer, asked Nicolas Trembley, a curator and art critic, to organize her booth as though it were a small museum or gallery exhibition, around the notion of the artist's process and appropriation. Called ''Telephone Paintings,'' the installation was inspired by Laszlo Moholy-Nagy's ''Konstruction in Emaille,'' in which he challenged the notion of man-made art by asking an enamel plaque factory to commission three pieces composed of abstract lines in primary colors.
''The space feels like a salon for selling art,'' Ms. Rech said. White wallpaper decorated with small gold Aladdin's lamps designed by the Swiss artist John M. Armleder covers her booth, and the selection of art on view is unusual and varied. There is a ''Joke'' painting by Richard Prince, 1963 race riot prints by Andy Warhol and a collage by Kurt Schwitters, along with examples by younger artists like Mr. Guyton, Erik Lindman, Tom Burr, Alex Israel and Jonathan Binet. By the end of Tuesday, Ms. Rech said, she had sold a number of the smaller works by artists like Mr. Israel and Mr. Lindman.
Some seasoned collectors and art advisers were grumbling that many works had gone before they even walked through the fair doors. ''With dealers sending clients JPEGs ahead of time the game has changed,'' said Philippe Segalot, a New York dealer whose antics in years past, like hiring of a Hollywood makeup artist to disguise him so he could sneak into the fair before everyone and snap up the best works, have become Art Basel legend.
So why do so many important collectors still bother to come all the way to Basel? ''They're afraid of missing something,'' Mr. Segalot replied.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Untitled (Paula)'' a photo-realist painting from 2012 by Rudolf Stingel. The 11-by-15-foot work is being shown at Art Basel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN ALTENBURGER, RUDOLF STINGEL/PAULA COOPER GALLERY, NEW YORK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ART DEALERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (51%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: FRANCOIS PINAULT (58%); STEVEN A COHEN (52%); STEVEN COHEN (52%); ELI BROAD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (90%); EUROPE (78%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



573 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: British and Iranian Officials Meet to Discuss Diplomatic Rift

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
The foreign ministers of Britain and Iran conferred on the sidelines of a security conference in Afghanistan on Thursday, the highest-level contact between the two nations since relations were nearly severed after protesters in Tehran overran and pillaged the British Embassy and a diplomatic residence in November.
Britain's Foreign Office, which reported the meeting between Foreign Secretary William Hague and his Iranian counterpart, Foreign Minister Ali Akbar Salehi, said in a statement that the meeting had been convened at Mr. Salehi's request. The official Islamic Republic News Agency of Iran said nothing about who had initiated the meeting but reported that the agenda included the Syria conflict, Iranians living in Britain and the coming talks on Iran's disputed nuclear program, to be held in Moscow. 
Mr. Hague ordered relations with Iran to be downgraded to the lowest level short of a formal break after the embassy assault, which Britain accused the Iranian authorities of approving and directing. British diplomats left Iran, and Iranian diplomats were expelled from Britain.
Iran expressed regret for the assault but called it a spontaneous outburst by students understandably angered by impending economic penalties imposed by Britain and the United States over the nuclear dispute. Nonetheless, Iran was widely criticized over the protest, which evoked memories of the takeover of the American Embassy after the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Even friendly countries chided Iran for allowing the ransacking of the British Embassy, and the episode may have hastened the European Union's decision to impose an embargo on Iranian oil to further press Iran over the nuclear dispute. That embargo, set to formally take effect July 1, has already hurt Iran's ability to sell oil, its most important export.
Britain is a member of the so-called P5-plus-1 group of countries -- the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council plus Germany -- which has been pressing Iran to suspend its enrichment of uranium in accordance with four Security Council resolutions. Iran has argued that it has a legal right to enrich uranium and insists that such activity is for peaceful purposes, despite suspicions by Western countries and Israel that Iran is seeking the ability to make nuclear weapons.
Britain's Foreign Office said that Mr. Hague spoke to Mr. Salehi about the embassy assault and that both men expressed hope that their countries ''could move soon to confirm the appointment of formal protecting powers in each other's capitals'' -- a reference to the appointment of third countries to look after Iranian interests in Britain and vice versa.
The expression of such a hope in itself appeared to reflect a lack of movement, and spoke to the deep freeze in Iranian-British relations that has prevailed since the embassy assault.
The Foreign Office also said Mr. Hague told Mr. Salehi that members of the P5-plus-1 group were united in their approach in the nuclear dispute and had made what he called a ''credible offer to Iran,'' putting the onus on the Iranians to respond.
The last meeting on the nuclear dispute, held in Baghdad last month, ended with no substantive progress. The P5-plus-1 group demanded that Iran immediately halt production of uranium refined to 20 percent purity, which is considered a short technical step from bomb-grade fuel. Iran had demanded that the countries acknowledge its right to enrich uranium and ease Western sanctions as a first step.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); RELIGION (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAN (90%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



574 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Anything-but-Ordinary Mom Pitches for Chobani Yogurt

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TOO bad for Greece, and perhaps the euro, that the Greek economy is in no way helped by the surging popularity of Greek yogurt among American shoppers. In another sign of that interest, Chobani, the market leader in Greek yogurt in this country, is stepping up efforts to sell its new children's product.
The product, called Chobani Champions, was already being advertised in magazines and on Web sites read by parents. Commercials are being added to the mix this month, featuring the first celebrity endorser for any kind of Chobani: Jennie Finch, a pitcher for the United States Olympic softball teams that won the gold medal in 2004 and the silver in 2008. 
Ms. Finch appears in the commercial with one of her two sons, Ace, who is 6. (The other, Diesel, turns 1 Tuesday.) The signing of Ms. Finch is no coincidence: Chobani is an official sponsor of the 2012 United States Olympic team.
The campaign for Chobani Champions, which carries the theme ''Win the day,'' is being created by the New York office of Leo Burnett USA, part of the Leo Burnett Worldwide unit of the Publicis Groupe. Leo Burnett New York is the advertising agency of record for Chobani and Chobani Champions. (Big Spaceship, an interactive agency in Brooklyn, is the digital agency for both Chobani products.) The budget for the Chobani Champions campaign is estimated at $12 million.
The commercial for Chobani Champions, running on television and online, arrives 16 months after the first television commercials for the main Chobani brand, which carry the theme ''Nothing but good.'' Like the campaign for Chobani, the campaign for Chobani Champions also has a significant presence in social media like Facebook.
Greek yogurt now accounts for 35 percent of total American yogurt sales, according to a report by Bernstein Research, part of AllianceBernstein, up from 30 percent last year and only 4 percent as recently as 2008. Chobani, sold by Agro Farma, leads the Greek yogurt segment with a market share of 47.3 percent, according to the report, followed by products from Groupe Danone, at 19.7 percent, and the Fage brand from Fage Dairy Industry, at 13.9 percent.
The children's yogurt market is as competitive as the adult market. Chobani Champions faces rivals like Danimals and Dan-o-nino, from the Dannon Company division of Groupe Danone; YoBaby, YoKids and YoKids Greek, from the Stonyfield Farm unit of Groupe Danone; and Yoplait Kids, Trix and Go-Gurt, from General Mills.
The Chobani strategy is encapsulated in the ''Win the day'' theme, said Doron Stern, vice president for marketing at Agro Farma in New Berlin, N.Y., in that ''it talks to the insight that moms, and to some degree dads, struggle with choices for products for their children.''
Parents want products that are healthy, to make them happy, and tasty, for ''happy kids,'' he added. ''We can offer both.''
Ms. Finch's role in the commercial echoes the casting of the commercials for Chobani, Mr. Stern said, which feature ''real people'' like a student from Cortland, N.Y., and an office worker from Richmond, Va.
The Chobani Champions commercial begins with a couple of lighthearted nods to the athletic prowess of Ms. Finch, who calls herself, tongue in cheek, ''a typical mom.'' In one scene, she stops at a booth at an amusement park and knocks over enough bottles to win Ace a giant stuffed bear. Then, at his baseball game, she casually catches and tosses a ball without paying much attention.
''And just like any typical mom, I'm thrilled when my champion loves to eat something nutritious like Chobani Champions yogurt,'' Ms. Finch says.
The spot ends with Ms. Finch proudly placing Ace's (tiny) trophy on a mantel in a living room, in between her Olympic medals.
''So even though I'm an Olympian,'' she says, ''around here I'm just another mom trying to help her champion win the day.''
The humorous tack is important, said Jay Benjamin, chief creative officer at Leo Burnett New York, because ''while these products are healthy products, they should still be able to have fun.''
Without that, he added, they risk being perceived as too serious or self-important, in the vein of an oft-quoted New Yorker cartoon from 1928 in which a daughter tells her mother at the dinner table, ''I say it's spinach, and I say the hell with it.''
''We loved the idea'' of basing the commercial on the premise that Ms. Finch ''may be an Olympic medalist,'' Mr. Benjamin said, ''but like every mom she's facing the same challenge: feeding her kids.''
As for plans with Ms. Finch after the 2012 Summer Olympics, ''I'm sure we'll be seeing more of her,'' he said, because she is ''a great ambassador for the brand.''
Agro Farma also has big plans for the Chobani brand, which include a second plant to join one in New Berlin. A job fair for the new plant, in Twin Falls, Idaho, recently drew hundreds of applicants.
As for additional new products, ''we have a lot of innovative, exciting ideas cooking up in our labs,'' Mr. Stern said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chobani Champions is a Greek yogurt marketed for children. TV commercials feature the former American Olympian Jennie Finch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MILK (90%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (78%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (76%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (76%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); SOFTBALL (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); CELEBRITIES (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (71%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (71%); MARKET SHARE (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (71%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (82%); DANONE SA (FRANCE) (65%); DANNON CO INC (62%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (53%); GENERAL MILLS INC (51%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (82%); DNN (BIT) (65%); BN (PAR) (65%); FB (NASDAQ) (53%); AB (NYSE) (53%); GIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (65%); SIC2026 FLUID MILK (62%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311824 DRY PASTA, DOUGH & FLOUR MIXES MANUFACTURING FROM PURCHASED FLOUR (51%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (51%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (51%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); GREECE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



575 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: Despite Price Drop, Oil Cartel Keeps Production Limit

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Stanley Reed and Clifford Krauss contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries left unchanged a ceiling for oil production at a meeting in Vienna on Thursday, despite signs of a slowdown in the global economy and slumping oil prices.
Saudi Arabia came to the meeting ready to raise output to stave off the risk that higher oil prices would tip vulnerable economies into recession. Iran and Venezuela, the so-called OPEC hawks, had wanted to lower production to prop up prices.
The decision leaves Saudi Arabia, the largest producer in the cartel and a moderate, to decide on its own whether to influence prices by raising or lowering output before the next OPEC meeting in December. 
The cartel issued a statement late Thursday saying it expected supply and demand of oil in the world to remain balanced through the second half of the year, and so would leave its production ceiling unchanged.
It said the weakening economy in Europe was a concern. Demand globally, though, was expected to grow slightly, offset by rising supply outside of OPEC. ''The conference decided that member countries should adhere to the production ceiling,'' the statement said.
''Leaving the ceiling unchanged takes the issue off the table,'' said Frank Verrastro, director of the energy and national security program and the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in a phone interview. ''Doing nothing is easy.''
The OPEC spigot on member countries' output is the main instrument for controlling prices and wielding the cartel's power, but it works imperfectly. Members often pump more oil than the ceiling allows, as is the case now.
The decision would be a positive trend for oil-importing countries. The current OPEC limit is 30 million barrels a day, but the cartel's members in May pumped 31.86 million barrels a day, according to the International Energy Agency, a Paris-based group representing developed market energy importing nations. Over the last months, output from OPEC members rose, even as the insolvency of Greece threatened the European economies and whittled away at demand.
Saudi Arabia has said it is concerned, as is the United States, that higher oil prices would tip the world into recession. This position costs the kingdom little, as it makes up for lower prices by selling more oil.
Saudi Arabia also increased output in anticipation of Western sanctions curtailing Iran's oil production that take effect in the second half of this year.
The price of Brent crude oil, the main European benchmark, dropped to $97 a barrel this week after reaching a peak of $128 in March. The average price obtained by OPEC members was $95.95 on Wednesday, the organization said on its Web site.
United States crude oil prices are lower still, with the benchmark closing at just under $84 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange Thursday, because of a glut of domestic oil production in the Midwest and limited pipeline capacity.
The calm meeting was a sharp contrast to the OPEC meeting of almost a year ago, which ended in disarray when ministers were unable to reach consensus to raise oil production levels, leaving existing quotas in place by default. At the last meeting in December, Saudi Arabia and Iran put aside their differences and increased the production target.
OPEC's lack of action this time around would leave Iran facing the dual problem of reduced prices and lower volumes to export once European Union sanctions take effect in July. ''It's a double whammy'' for Iran, Mr. Verrastro said.
The Saudis, in contrast, pushed past a decade-old record this spring for output at 10.1 million barrels a day, at least temporarily surpassing Russia as the nation producing the most oil in the world. Saudi Arabia still has a spare capacity of 1.88 million barrels of oil a day.
Iran's minister of oil, Rostam Qasemi, told reporters this week that Iran objected to the recent price swoon but would not argue to lower the current production limit; Iran initially called for lowering the ceiling, but backed away, apparently because of lack of support within OPEC.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At Thursday's meeting in Vienna, OPEC left the production ceiling at 30 million barrels a day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERBERT NEUBAUER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PRICE CUTTING (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); WEB SITES (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%) MIDWEST USA (72%) SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); GREECE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



576 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Facing Greek Vote, Euro Zone Ponders What-Ifs

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and PAUL GEITNER; Stephen Castle contributed reporting from London and David Jolly from Paris.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Greek elections on Sunday could bring urgency to a debate that has been largely academic: whether the euro zone can withstand the departure of one of its members.
With a good chance that the elections will produce either a political stalemate or a populist left-wing government in Athens, even people who say they do not believe Greece will drop out of the common currency are preparing for that possibility.
Because there has been time to prepare, some economists say, Greece's departure from the euro will not be as much of a shock as the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, which provoked a global financial crisis. Nor is it likely to be as abrupt. Even if a new Greek government eventually decided it could no longer stay in the euro union, no one expects an immediate, hasty exit.
Lehman was a surprise. But Typhoon Greece has been swirling offshore for months if not years, giving investors, governments and euro zone citizens plenty of time to batten their financial hatches. 
They have drained money from Greece and put it into assets considered safe, like German or Swedish bonds. Foreign businesses with operations in Greece have been demanding payment up front from local customers, lest they later have to accept devalued drachmas. Some, like the French bank Credit Agricole, are putting their Greek operations under quarantine to keep any infection from spreading.
Policy makers have been busy, too, though they are reluctant to say so. The European Commission acknowledged this week that it had been looking at whether it would be legal to allow restrictions on the movement of capital within the euro zone. The European Central Bank is reinspecting its tool kit, which could include lowering its benchmark interest rate or giving banks another shot of cheap, long-term loans.
But, in fact, there are limits to how much European officials can actually do, because of the same structural limitations to the euro currency union that have let the Greece problem fester so long in the first place.
''The consequences are incalculable -- nobody can pretend to know what would happen,'' said Holger Schmieding, chief economist of Berenberg Bank in London. But he added, ''Policy makers are very aware this is a high-risk event and are thinking through possibilities, which they didn't do before Lehman.''
Are the preparations adequate?
Views on that issue have become increasingly polarized. Some economists and policy makers say that the departure of Greece would be a shock to the world economy, but survivable, and maybe even not that big a deal.
''I do believe it would be tolerable for the remaining member states,'' said Ferdinand Fichtner, head of forecasting at the German Institute for Economic Research in Berlin, which advises the German government. But Mr. Fichtner, speaking to reporters in Berlin, quickly added, ''It should be the last option.''
In the opposite camp is the E.C.B., which has warned that the shock could indeed rival Lehman's collapse. There are simply too many unknowns to quantify, Vitor Constancio, the vice president of the central bank, said this week.
''Any assessment would be virtually impossible to do,'' he said.
Jean-Paul Chifflet, the chief executive of Credit Agricole, said at the annual shareholders' meeting in May that he was ''looking at all potential options when it comes to Greece.'' On Thursday, the French bank's Emporiki Bank subsidiary in Athens announced that it was transferring control of units in Albania, Bulgaria and Romania to the Credit Agricole parent company in what was evidently a move to shield those assets from whatever might ensue in Greece.
Mr. Schmieding of Berenberg Bank, who admits to ''a naive belief that Europe always rises to the challenge,'' argues that the threat posed by unruly Greek politics has already prodded euro zone leaders to extraordinary action, and that they would do even more if Greece went overboard.
He cited the urgency with which euro zone finance ministers cobbled together a plan to bail out Spanish banks last week, a scramble that ''only makes sense in the context of the Greek election,'' Mr. Schmieding said.
The E.C.B. might also play a role if the elections Sunday do not produce a government committed to sticking to the austerity and policy overhauls that Greece agreed to in return for international aid.
The central bank still has room to lower the benchmark interest rate from 1 percent, and could give banks another round of the low-interest, long-term loans it began dispensing late last year when the euro crisis was also spiking. That temporarily cooled the fever.
In an extreme case, if contagion gripped Spain and Italy, the central bank might even be willing to buy government bonds wholesale. That would replicate the quantitative easing deployed by the Federal Reserve in the United States to pump more money into the financial system.
Jens Weidmann, the president of the Bundesbank, Germany's central bank, warned on Thursday not to expect too much from the E.C.B., where he is a member of the governing council. ''In my opinion, we have reached the limit of our mandate,'' Mr. Weidmann said in Mannheim, Germany, according to Reuters.
But analysts say other governing council members of the E.C.B. would probably overrule Mr. Weidmann and stretch the bank's mandate if needed to keep the euro zone together.
Still, big gaps remain in the crisis response capabilities -- which is why events in Greece and Spain this spring have galvanized most European leaders to seek longer-term solutions to the currency union's acknowledged shortcomings. The euro zone, for instance, lacks a Europe-wide deposit insurance fund, which would be a crucial tool if an emergency in Greece provoked bank runs in other countries.
Corporate money has largely fled Greece and has been flowing out of Spain. Without a European equivalent to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the United States, it is unclear how authorities on the Continent would reassure ordinary depositors that their money was safe enough to prevent a rush for the exits.
''That could be the danger,'' said Peter Westaway, chief economist for Europe at Vanguard Asset Management in London. ''If it gets out of control so quickly, how do you stop that?''
Many companies have been preparing for a European shock at least since the end of last year. Those with activities in Greece have been examining not just financial risks but also operational issues like how to ensure they still have electricity in a crisis, or what currency might be used for transactions, said Mark Gregory, a partner in London at Ernst & Young, which has advised its clients on how to deal with a Greek emergency and the larger economic effects.
Severed from the euro zone, would businesses in Greece have to use a neutral currency like dollars? ''We've been looking at Argentina as a case study,'' Mr. Gregory said.
For most clients, the issue is not so much what would happen in Greece but what might happen to the broader European economy, Mr. Gregory said. The earthquake and the tsunami in Japan last year taught companies how vulnerable the global supply chain can be to disruption. So, for example, companies are thinking about whether they would provide financing to a supplier who could not produce a part for lack of bank credit.
Surprisingly, Mr. Gregory said, Ernst & Young clients seem to be somewhat more hopeful about the outcome in Greece in recent weeks because of what they perceive as a more energetic response by policy makers.
''It feels like there is a real attempt to work through the problems in the euro zone,'' Mr. Gregory said, but he added, ''It is a volatile mood.''
Government officials have become increasingly open about contingency planning, even as they insist that they will do everything to keep Greece in the euro.
The European Commission conceded Tuesday that it had researched the legality of capital controls, which would be necessary to limit the amount of money Greeks could ship abroad if the country reintroduced its own currency.
Capital controls are illegal in the European Union because they conflict with the principle of a single market. But they would be possible under the union's treaties in cases of ''public order and public security,'' the commission said.
Olivier Bailly, a commission spokesman, denied that the body had drawn up concrete plans for capital controls and reiterated its desire for Greece to remain in the euro zone.
''Some people are working on scenarios,'' Mr. Bailly said. ''Our role is to say what is possible under E.U. law. We are not scriptwriters for disaster films.''
All in all, Mr. Gregory of Ernst & Young said, the impact of a Greek exit would probably be less than it might have been a year ago because companies had already sharply reduced their financial exposure and made contingency plans. Still, no one knows for sure how bad it would be.
''You can plan for some of the risks,'' he said, ''but some are unknown.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A closed storefront in Athens. Analysts wonder how the world will react if Greece decides to stop using the euro. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ORESTIS PANAGIOTOU/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B1)
Customers shoppingWednesday at a euro store in Athens, the equivalent of a dollar discount store in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLI SCARFF/GETTY IMAGES)
 Replica drachma notes displayed outside a bank on Thursday in Athens. Economists and others have discussed the possibility and consequences of Greece returning to its old currency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MILOS BICANSKI/GETTY IMAGES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (91%); EURO ZONE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); DEVALUATION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (72%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); CREDIT AGRICOLE SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: ACA (PAR) (55%); ACA (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (97%); GREECE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



577 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Understanding the European Crisis Now

BYLINE: By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
Countries with too much sovereign debt have increasingly found it difficult to raise the money they need at affordable rates in the financial markets. At the same time, banks in many of these countries have come under pressure as deposits have fled to countries with stronger economies. Because the banking systems are much larger than the economies of their home countries, the governments lack the ready resources to prop up banks in trouble. Until recently, Spain's sovereign debt was roughly the same as Germany's as a percentage of economic output, according to the International Monetary Fund. But Spain has Europe's highest unemployment rate and is once again in recession. As its banks have deteriorated, Spain has been forced to seek assistance for them from elsewhere in Europe.
Many of Europe's Economies Are Weakening . . . 
The debt crisis and government efforts to curb spending have further weakened many economies. The crisis first afflicted some of the smaller economies, but is now threatening larger ones like Spain and Italy. In the short term, the economic outlook is poor with many peripheral countries in deep recession.
. . . and Their Banks, Which Dwarf Their Economies, Are Hurting.
Though the banks of many European countries have long been larger than their home countries' economies, they are now in some cases more than twice the size. The loan portfolios of many of these banks have deteriorated substantially. And many banks had borrowed to lend more than they had in deposits. With loans going bad, the banks need to shore up their capital. But investors no longer want to lend them money. And depositors, fearing the banks might not survive, have been moving their money to banks in stronger countries, like Germany.
With Many Countries Mired in Debt . . .
The countries that adopted the euro were supposed to adhere to strict spending standards to prevent their debt from getting too big. They agreed to a debt target of 60 percent of their economic output. Some did, but others, with substantial social safety nets, were not as frugal. They could finance their deficit spending at relatively low interest rates as long as Europe's economy remained healthy. But when the financial crisis erupted, the economies shrank andtheir debts ballooned. Investors began to lose faith in the ability of those countries to repay their debts.
. . . and So Many People Out of Work . . .
The best and perhaps the only way for Europe to recover from its financial problems is to get its economies growing rapidly again. That could ease some of the pain that has led to political and social unrest. The unemployment rates of many countries are very high. In Spain and Greece, the rates are comparable to what they were in the United States during the Great Depression.
. . . Hundreds of Billions In Aid Has Come Up Short.
Two bailout funds have been created for countries that need assistance. The problem with the funds is that they are essentially a form of self-insurance. Since they were created, the funds have provided loans to Ireland, Portugal, Greece and now for Spain's banks. As countries become debtors, they drop out as guarantors, putting more financial demands on the other European countries.
The situation in Europe might be worse were it not for a system that was created to clear transactions between central banks. That system is now providing loans to central banks of countries whose banks are suffering withdrawals. The money comes from the central banks of nations with healthier banks, like Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. Germany already has substantial exposure to the weaker economies, which is one reason it has been reluctant to agree to issue pan-European bonds.

GRAPHIC: MAPS: Gross Domestic Product
Bank Assets
Ratio of Gross Government Debt to Gross Domestic Product
Unemployment rates
CHARTS: Bailout funds
Bailouts (Sources: European Central Bank
Eurostat
International Monetary Fund
Deloitte
Haver Analytics, via AllianceBernstein
 Institute of Empirical Economic Research, University of Osnabruck) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (59%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (95%); SPAIN (95%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GREECE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



578 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Assigning Scores To Perfection

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
There is no such thing as a typical no-hitter, but this year it seems pitchers are going to extreme lengths for individuality.
Johan Santana broke the Mets' 8,019-game streak of not having a no-hitter; six Seattle Mariners pitchers combined to throw one; and Philip Humber of the Chicago White Sox tossed a perfect game just a few years removed from being considered a major league bust. Measured against that group, Jered Weaver's no-hitter in May seems almost boring.
But on Wednesday night, Matt Cain of the San Francisco Giants trumped them all, throwing not just a perfect game but also perhaps the second-greatest perfect game in baseball history. 
Cain's 10-0 masterpiece against the Houston Astros was the first perfect game and 14th no-hitter in the Giants' 130-season history, which includes the efforts of the Hall of Fame pitchers Christy Mathewson, Carl Hubbell and Juan Marichal. Cain's performance was nothing short of stunning. His 14 strikeouts tied the perfect-game record set by Sandy Koufax of the Los Angeles Dodgers against the Chicago Cubs on Sept. 9, 1965, and he allowed just seven balls out of the infield.
Contrast Cain's performance to that of Humber, who threw his perfect game on April 21 against the Seattle Mariners. Humber struck out nine and had 13 flyouts. It is splitting hairs, but Cain's combination of 20 outs through strikeouts or ground balls was superior in the sense that he controlled more of the game's outcome.
The statistics guru Bill James developed a statistic called game score to evaluate pitching performances. It awards points for outs, innings and strikeouts and takes points away for hits, walks, runs and earned runs. By that measure, Cain's performance tied Koufax for the most dominant of the 20 modern-era perfect games with a score of 101.
Making game score controversial in the evaluation of no-hitters and perfect games is that it is a measure of dominance, not perfection. For instance, Nolan Ryan also scored 101 in one of the no-hitters he pitched, but he also allowed two walks, balanced out by his 16 strikeouts.
The highest game score came in a game that was neither a no-hitter nor a perfect game. Cain, Koufax and Ryan all trail Kerry Wood, who, as a Cub, struck out 20 Astros, walked none and allowed one hit on May 6, 1998, setting a nine-inning record with a game score of 105.
In Wood's masterpiece, the lone hit was a ground-ball single by Ricky Gutierrez. To trade one ground-ball single for six strikeouts gives Wood the edge in dominance, even if the performance lacked the romance of a pitcher remaining perfect.
The only knock against Cain's performance was the quality of his competition. While the 1965 Cubs were not a particularly good team, Koufax had to contend with Billy Williams, Ernie Banks and Ron Santo, a much more intimidating threesome than the light-hitting 2012 Astros can offer. Cain needed 125 pitches to complete the game, while Koufax needed just 107.
It is fitting that the competition for greatest perfect game would come down to a Dodger and a Giant; the teams have had a fierce rivalry since the 19th century, and by the narrowest margins Koufax does appear to have the edge on Cain.
If Cain and Koufax threw the most dominant perfect games, the least imposing in terms of game score was pitched by Addie Joss of the Cleveland Naps against the White Sox in 1908. In that game, Joss struck out just three batters, giving him a game score of 90. Individual game data is searchable on Baseball-Reference.com only since 1918, but in that time frame 639 starters have had a game score higher than Joss did in a nine-inning game. However, what Joss lacked in dominance in his perfect game he made up for in economy, needing just 74 pitches to get through nine innings.
The oddest of the perfect games was one of the two thrown before the modern era began in 1901. Lee Richmond of the Worcester Ruby Legs was perfect on June 12, 1880, but benefited greatly from the rules of the era. Richmond was throwing underhand from 50 feet away, and three times in the game an out was recorded on a foul ball that had bounced. The rule on bouncing foul balls being counted as outs was not changed until 1883.
Finally, on the same night that Cain was attaining perfection, R. A. Dickey of the Mets managed a game score of 95 by striking out 12 in a one-hitter against the Tampa Bay Rays. The scoring decision on the base hit is being appealed by the Mets, but it is not likely to be reversed. For now, anyway, Dickey has the 79th-most dominant nine-inning performance of the last 94 years.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: San Francisco's Matt Cain was overpowering in a perfect game against the Astros on Wednesday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF CHIU/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B11)
 Sandy Koufax of the Dodgers had 14 strikeouts in his perfect game in 1965. Matt Cain matched his output. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY MATOSIAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SEATTLE MARINERS (84%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (83%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (82%); CHICAGO WHITE SOX (58%); CHICAGO CUBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



579 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Smithfield Foods' Profit Drops on Lower Margins for Pork

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
RICHMOND, Va. (AP) -- Smithfield Foods, the pork producer, said Thursday that its fourth-quarter profit fell 19 percent on lower margins on fresh pork, slow sales growth and higher selling costs. 
The company, whose brands include Armour, Farmland and its namesake, said its net income fell to $79.5 million, or 49 cents a share, from $98.4 million, or 59 cents a share, a year earlier.
Excluding certain one-time items, the company earned 43 cents a share, falling short of analysts' average forecast of 53 cents a share.
Revenue in the period, which ended April 29 and was the fourth quarter of Smithfield's fiscal year, increased 3 percent to $3.21 billion from $3.12 billion as the company benefited from 13 percent higher pork exports and expanded its distribution of packaged meats. But the revenue figure was below analysts' expectations of $3.25 billion. Fresh pork sales rose about 3 percent and packaged meat sales rose less than 1 percent.
However, Smithfield said its cost of sales rose about 8 percent and its gross profit fell 25 percent.
Smithfield also announced a two-year, $250 million share buyback plan.
In a conference call with investors, the chief executive, C. Larry Pope, said the company has gained market share in products such as deli meats, bacon, sausage and hot dogs.
Pork producers like Smithfield are caught in a tug of war with consumers. The company needs to increase prices to offset rising costs. But consumers are still extremely responsive to price changes in the current economy.
By raising prices, Smithfield risks cutting into its sales should consumers cut back or buy cheaper meats, such as chicken.
''If you look forward, the fundamentals are moving our direction. Less chicken, less beef and lower grain should be pretty good for the pork business,'' Mr. Pope said.
Stock in Smithfield, which is based in Smithfield, Va., fell $1.11, or 5.7 percent, to $18.46 a share.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES FIGURES (92%); PORK (91%); MEATS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (90%)

TICKER: SFD (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (90%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (90%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (90%)

PERSON: C LARRY POPE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



580 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Despite Gain in Jobs, City's Unemployment Rate Rose to 9.7% Last Month

BYLINE: By PATRICK MCGEEHAN

 BODY:
What is happening in New York City's job market is still a conundrum: The city gained more than 25,000 jobs in May but its unemployment rate rose to 9.7 percent, according to the State Labor Department. 
The latest numbers continued a pattern that has left economists scratching around for explanations. Once again, employers reported that they had increased their payrolls at a healthy clip but residents of the city said that they were struggling to find work.
Employers said they added 26,200 workers in May, nearly double the usual rate of hiring in mid-spring, said James P. Brown, principal economist for the New York State Department of Labor. Over the last year, employment in the city has increased by 2.4 percent, much faster than the national job rate growth of 1.8 percent.
But all of those new jobs apparently were not enough to prevent the unemployment rate from rising from 9.5 percent in April. The city's unemployment rate is much higher than the national rate of 8.2 percent and almost a full percentage point higher than a year ago, when it was 8.8 percent.
Mr. Brown said it was hard to square the two measures, but he said their divergence indicated that ''even though we have substantial areas of economic strength, it's still a difficult job market.''
He pointed out that a little more than half of the jobs added in the city in the past year were in professional and business services, like law and accounting firms and advertising and employment agencies.
But construction, which lost jobs in May, and the public sector remain weak, he said. At the same time, big banks on Wall Street continue to announce plans to lay off workers.
''There are certain types of industries that are doing very well, but if you're looking for a job outside of those industries, not so good,'' Mr. Brown said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: People waited to see potential employers at a jobs fair in the Harlem Armory last week. June is National Jobs Fair Month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



581 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: Weak Hiring and Low Prices Raise Odds of Fed Action

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- The job market is flagging, and consumer prices are barely rising. The picture presented by data released Thursday is leading some economists to predict that the Federal Reserve will announce some new step next week to revive the economy. 
Applications for unemployment benefits rose last week, pointing to a fourth straight month of sluggish hiring in June. And consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in May largely because of a drop in gasoline prices.
Weak job growth raises pressure on the Fed because part of its mission is to increase employment. And mild inflation gives policy makers more leeway to act. The Fed's policy-making committee is to meet next Tuesday and Wednesday.
Fed officials are ''likely to go into that meeting feeling a little chastened and looking for a way to support the economy,'' said Jeremy Lawson, an economist at BNP Paribas.
At its April meeting the Fed forecast that the economy would grow by about 2.7 percent this year.
But many economists are now predicting slower growth after seeing the economy slump this spring. Employers added an average of 96,000 jobs a month in the last three months. Consumers barely increased their spending at retail businesses in May. And European leaders are struggling to contain their financial crisis.
''You look at all this and say, 'Where's the growth going to come from?' '' Mr. Lawson said.
The Labor Department said weekly applications for unemployment benefits increased to a seasonally adjusted 386,000. The four-week average of jobless claims, a less volatile measure, rose for the third straight week to 382,000. That is the highest in six weeks.
Jobless claims are a measure of layoffs. When they drop below 375,000, it typically suggests hiring is strong enough to reduce the unemployment rate. But they have settled near or above that level since April, and economists said they did not expect job growth in June to be much better than in April or May.
In a separate report, the Labor Department said the 0.3 percent decline in the Consumer Price Index in May was mostly attributable to a 6.8 percent drop in gasoline prices. Food costs were unchanged.
Over the last 12 months ending in May, consumer prices rose 1.7 percent, much less than April's pace. It is also below the Fed's goal of a 2 percent annual gain.
So-called core prices, which exclude food and energy, rose 0.2 percent for the third straight month. They have risen 2.3 percent in the last year.
Rental costs pushed up core prices. Rents are rising as more people forgo homeownership and rent instead.
Separately, the Commerce Department reported Thursday that the American current account trade deficit grew during the first quarter to its widest imbalance in three years. A big increase in imports of oil, cars and machinery and a drop in American earnings on overseas investments drove that growth.
The deficit in the current account jumped 15.7 percent to $137.3 billion in the January-March quarter. That is up from $118.7 billion in the final three months of last year.
The current account is the broadest measure of trade. It tracks the sale of merchandise and services between nations as well as investment flows.
American exports of goods increased 1.6 percent to $388.5 billion. But imports rose a larger 2 percent to $583 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mother and daughter shopping in Miami. Consumer retail spending barely increased in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); RETAILERS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



582 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 324 words

HEADLINE: Ground Zero Cancers

 BODY:
Federal health officials took a reasonable and humane step last week when they proposed to add 50 cancers to the list of illnesses covered by a $4.3 billion fund to treat and compensate emergency workers and residents exposed to toxic fumes, dust and smoke from the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Dr. John Howard, director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, decided to add the cancers based on a study of New York City firefighters and recommendations by a scientific and technical advisory committee set up under a federal law enacted last year.
Under that law, rescue and recovery workers and people who lived, worked or went to school near the World Trade Center are eligible to seek free monitoring and medical care and compensation for economic losses or pain and suffering, based on duration of exposure and other factors. The illnesses that qualified have been mostly respiratory or gastrointestinal. Until now, cancer was left off the list for lack of persuasive evidence.
Now Dr. Howard has reversed course and added 50 types of cancer recommended for inclusion by the advisory committee. These include such common cancers as lung, breast and colorectal cancer and relatively rare childhood cancers. Patients can be compensated only if designated physicians certify that toxic materials or other hazards at ground zero were ''substantially likely'' to have aggravated or caused the cancer.
Dr. Howard said he also relied on a peer-reviewed study published last fall in The Lancet, a British medical journal. It found that firefighters exposed to toxic substances at ground zero suffered a 20 percent higher rate of cancer than firefighters who were not exposed.
Some experts still believe the evidence linking the Sept. 11 attacks to cancers is weak. But we have a moral obligation to ensure that those harmed by exposure at ground zero get the medical and financial help they need.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (79%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (78%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); CARCINOGENS (78%); DAMAGES (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HUMAN EXPOSURE ASSESSMENT (77%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY & HEALTH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



583 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Solitary Retreat to a Remote Island Leads to Many Mix-Ups

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT

 BODY:
The three main characters in ''Your Sister's Sister,'' Lynn Shelton's new comedy of romantic confusion, are remarkably charming and pleasant company. Not always for one another, of course -- hence the confusion -- but certainly for all but the grouchiest moviegoer. They are articulate and funny, each one a bundle of tics, insecurities and surprising insights. The paradox is that they accomplish all of this without being especially interesting.
This may be by design. Ms. Shelton (whose previous film was the impish, heartfelt romp ''Humpday'') seems to have conceived and cast her principals with an eye toward making them engagingly familiar but not too idiosyncratic. Jack (Mark Duplass) is a variation on the dominant axiom of modern American film comedy -- the nice, thirtyish guy with soft features, slack ambitions and a knack for self-deprecation. He comes equipped with a battered bicycle, a bunch of vintage-y T-shirts and an aura of suffering that is the result of his brother's death a year earlier. We learn a bit about the brother, whose name was Tom, but not much about Jack. About an hour into the movie a colleague of mine leaned over and whispered, ''What's his job?'' 
A scene or two later Jack mentioned that he was unemployed, which I suppose could have been inferred. The point is that a certain contextual fuzziness pervades the film, which takes place over a few days in and around a vacation house on an island off the coast of Washington State. Jack has been sent there by Iris, whose job is related to photography or fashion and who used to be Tom's girlfriend. But there is something indistinct about her too, even though she is played by the effortlessly vivid Emily Blunt. And Iris's sister, Hannah, indelibly incarnated by the graceful, strong-jawed Rosemarie DeWitt (Rachel in ''Rachel Getting Married'') is a bit of a cipher too. The basic data on Hannah is that she is a vegan, and that she has just walked away from a tumultuous long-term lesbian relationship.
What is her job? Why, really, should we care? I have been suggesting that the backgrounds of the characters are left blank, but it may be more accurate to say that they are taken for granted and assumed not to matter. There is no reason to be curious about their ambitions, their childhoods or their relationship to money, partly because they are not especially curious about anything beyond their own feelings. You could call ''Your Sister's Sister'' a group portrait of youthful solipsists in an era of economic contraction and social malaise, but that wouldn't be quite right. Self-absorption is not the subject; it is the paint.
But the picture is, intermittently, delightful to contemplate. Mr. Duplass (the writer and director, with his brother Jay, of films like ''Baghead,''''Cyrus'' and ''Jeff, Who Lives at Home'') is good at playing funny and sensitive without overdoing either quality. When Jack and Hannah, both of whom were expecting to have the house to themselves, meet by surprise there, the resulting encounter -- cautious, flirtatious and increasingly drunken -- is at once entirely believable and wildly, uncomfortably funny.
When Iris shows up the next day, things get even more awkward, and Ms. Shelton lingers over an emerging triangle of secrets, miscommunications and jealousies. Nothing much happens -- food is cooked, coffee is drunk, jokes are cracked, eyes are rolled -- and the loose, vagabond rhythm makes ''Your Sister's Sister'' feel a bit like a French movie, immersed in personalities rather than driven by the machinery of plot.
Unfortunately the easygoing mood does not last. The film's late swerves into melodrama and the neighboring region of farce feel panicky and pandering. The subtlety of the performances -- Ms. DeWitt's in particular -- is sacrificed for easy laughs, shallow tears and a coy trick ending. Just when it was starting to get interesting.
''Your Sister's Sister'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Some dirty talk and a bit of sexual action.
Your Sister's Sister
Opens on Friday in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington, San Francisco and Seattle.
Written and directed by Lynn Shelton; director of photography, Benjamin Kasulke; edited by Nat Sanders; music by Vinny Smith; production design by John Lavin; produced by Steven Schardt; released by IFC Films. Running time: 1 hour 30 minutes.
WITH: Emily Blunt (Iris), Rosemarie DeWitt (Hannah) and Mark Duplass (Jack).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Mark Duplass, Emily Blunt and Rosemarie DeWitt, the three main characters in the comedy ''Your Sister's Sister,'' directed by Lynn Shelton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY IFC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMEDY FILMS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); GAYS & LESBIANS (60%)

COMPANY: PLEASANT CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

TITLE: Your Sister's Sister (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



584 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: What Republicans Think

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Democrats frequently ask me why the Republicans have become so extreme. As they describe the situation, they usually fall back on some sort of illness metaphor. Republicans have a mania. President Obama has said that Republicans have a ''fever'' that he hopes will break if he is re-elected.
I guess I'd say Republicans don't have an illness; they have a viewpoint. Let me describe it this way: In the 1950s, Dwight Eisenhower reconciled Republicans to the 20th-century welfare state. Between Ike and George W. Bush, Republican leaders basically accepted that model. Sure, they wanted to cut taxes and devolve power, but, in practice, they sustained the system, often funding it more lavishly than the Democrats. 
But many Republicans have now come to the conclusion that the welfare-state model is in its death throes. Yuval Levin expressed the sentiment perfectly in a definitive essay for The Weekly Standard called ''Our Age of Anxiety'':
''We have a sense that the economic order we knew in the second half of the 20th century may not be coming back at all -- that we have entered a new era for which we have not been well prepared. ... We are, rather, on the cusp of the fiscal and institutional collapse of our welfare state, which threatens not only the future of government finances but also the future of American capitalism.''
To Republican eyes, the first phase of that collapse is playing out right now in Greece, Spain and Italy -- cosseted economies, unmanageable debt, rising unemployment, falling living standards.
America's economic stagnation is just more gradual. In the decades after World War II, the U.S. economy grew by well over 3 percent a year, on average. But, since then, it has failed to keep pace with changing realities. The average growth was a paltry 1.7 percent annually between 2000 and 2009. It averaged 0.6 percent growth between 2009 and 2011. Wages have failed to keep up with productivity. Family net worth is back at the same level it was at 20 years ago.
In America as in Europe, Republicans argue, the welfare state is failing to provide either security or dynamism. The safety net is so expensive it won't be there for future generations. Meanwhile, the current model shifts resources away from the innovative sectors of the economy and into the bloated state-supported ones, like health care and education. Successive presidents have layered on regulations and loopholes, creating a form of state capitalism in which big businesses thrive because they have political connections and small businesses struggle.
The welfare model favors security over risk, comfort over effort, stability over innovation. Money that could go to schools and innovation must now go to pensions and health care. This model, which once offered insurance from the disasters inherent in capitalism, has now become a giant machine for redistributing money from the future to the elderly.
This is the source of Republican extremism: the conviction that the governing model is obsolete. It needs replacing.
Mitt Romney hasn't put it this way. He wants to keep the focus on President Obama. But this worldview is implied in his (extremely vague) proposals. He would structurally reform the health care system, moving toward a more market-based system. He would simplify the tax code. He would reverse 30 years of education policy, decentralizing power and increasing parental choice. The intention is the same, to create a model that will spark an efficiency explosion, laying the groundwork for an economic revival.
Democrats have had trouble grasping the Republican diagnosis because they don't have the same sense that the current model is collapsing around them. In his speech in Cleveland on Thursday, President Obama offered an entirely different account of where we are. In the Obama version, the welfare-state model was serving America well until it was distorted a decade ago by a Republican Party intent on serving the rich and shortchanging the middle class.
In his speech, Obama didn't vow to reform the current governing model but to rebalance it. The rich would pay a little more and everyone else would get a little more. He'd ''double down'' on clean energy, revive the Grand Bargain from last summer's budget talks, invest in infrastructure, job training and basic research.
Obama championed targeted subsidies and tax credits. Republicans, meanwhile, envision comprehensive systemic change. The G.O.P. vision is of an entirely different magnitude: replace the tax code, replace the health care system and transform entitlements.
This is what this election is about: Is the 20th-century model obsolete, or does it just need rebalancing? Is Obama oblivious to this historical moment or are Republicans overly radical, risky and impractical?
Republicans and Democrats have different perceptions about how much change is needed. I suspect the likely collapse of the European project will profoundly influence which perception the country buys this November.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); TAX LAW (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); GREECE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



585 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Election Offers a Clear Choice on the Economy's Long-Term Path

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MICHAEL BARBARO; Helene Cooper reported from Cleveland, and Michael Barbaro from Cincinnati.

 BODY:
CLEVELAND -- Framing his re-election bid as a stark choice between government action to lift the middle class and a return to Republican economic policies that he said had caused a deep recession, President Obama on Thursday called the presidential decision facing Americans a clear-cut one that will determine the long-term trajectory of the economy.
''This November is your chance to render a verdict on the debate over how to grow the economy, how to create good jobs, how to pay down our deficit,'' Mr. Obama told enthusiastic supporters at Cuyahoga Community College here. ''Your vote will finally determine the path that we take as a nation -- not just tomorrow, but for years to come.''
The address, by a president who sounded as if he realized he was in a fight for his political life, represented a determined effort to stem two weeks of political and economic sliding that began with a grim jobs report. It came on a day of political gamesmanship in this crucial swing state, as Mitt Romney, the president's rival, scheduled a speech 250 miles away in Republican-friendly Cincinnati in an effort to overshadow Mr. Obama and pre-emptively attack him for failing to revive the economy. 
Speaking shortly before Mr. Obama in remarks that, like the president's, were carried on cable news programs, Mr. Romney said Mr. Obama's re-election campaign felt compelled to deliver a major address on the economy ''because he hasn't delivered a recovery for the economy.''
''Now, I know that he will have all sorts of excuses, and he'll have all sorts of ideas he'll describe about how he'll make things better,'' Mr. Romney said. ''But what he says and what he does are not always the exact same thing. And so if people want to know how his economic policies have worked and how they perform, why they can talk to their neighbor and ask if things are better.''
In his remarks, the president acknowledged that divergent views between him and Mr. Romney on how to revive the economy would define the election.
''There is one place I stand in complete agreement with Mr. Romney,'' Mr. Obama said. ''This election is about our economic future.''
The president offered no new policy prescriptions in his speech, which he instead used to try to regain the offensive by contrasting his agenda with his own detailed account of the Republican alternative. Mr. Obama said the nation was slowly ''digging out of a hole that is nine million jobs deep,'' and he blamed Republican policies over the previous decade for driving up the deficit and benefiting the rich at the expense of the middle class. He said a Republican victory in November would mean a return to the ''theory that the best way to grow the economy is from the top down,'' and he called the election ''the make-or-break moment for America's middle class.''
Point by point, the president listed the Bush-era economic and policy choices -- embraced by Mr. Romney and Congressional Republicans -- that he said had led to the recession of 2008 and 2009: tax cuts for the wealthy, deregulation, spending on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that was added to the deficit. ''I don't believe that the government is the answer to all of our problems,'' Mr. Obama said. But, he said, ''what is holding us back is not a lack of big ideas, not a matter of finding the right technical solution.''
''What is holding us back is a stalemate in Washington between two fundamentally different views between what direction America should take,'' Mr. Obama said.
Mr. Romney, whose staff hastily moved up his speech so he could beat the president to the podium, said that private enterprise, not government, was the key to expanding the economy, and that the Obama administration's policies on financial regulation, health care and energy had stifled that growth and had held back the recovery.
''I think he's made it harder for the American enterprise system to work,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And I want to change that. I want to make it once again, America once again the most attractive place in the world for job creators.''
In Cleveland, the crowd of about 1,500 at the community college was kept purposely low because this was a ''speech, not a rally,'' campaign aides said. (Mr. Obama was buttoned up in a suit, looking somber, and he struck a serious tone throughout the address.) But many in the crowd acted as if they were at a rally anyway, doing the wave, chanting the ubiquitous ''fired up, ready to go'' slogan from Mr. Obama's 2008 campaign and interrupting his speech with raucous cheers and expressions of agreement.
Mr. Obama's remarks came as he is grappling with running for re-election as the national jobless rate remains above 8 percent, a daunting level for any incumbent president to overcome, particularly during a hyperpartisan campaign season in which every misstatement is amplified in a 24-hour news cycle. The president, who was hammered by Republicans last week for his statement that the private sector was doing fine, acknowledged the difficult environment.
''There will be no shortage of gaffes and controversies that keep both campaigns busy and give the press something to write about,'' he said. ''You may have heard I recently made my own unique contribution to that process. It wasn't the first time; it won't be the last.''
The Romney campaign sought to take advantage of Mr. Obama's comment last week and released a campaign advertisement on Thursday titled ''Doing Fine.'' The ad features a series of sour statistics (''23.2 Million Americans Are in Need of Work''; ''Millions of Homeowners Underwater on Mortgages''), and then follows up, repeatedly, with video and audio of Mr. Obama telling reporters during a news conference that ''the private sector is doing fine.'' It closes with ominous text: ''How Can President Obama Fix Our Economy... if He Doesn't Understand It's Broken?''
The Obama campaign fired back, releasing a Web video with a highlight reel of Mr. Romney's own off-key moments. ''Corporations are people too, my friend''; ''I like being able to fire people''; ''I'm also unemployed''; ''Some of my best friends are Nascar team owners'' -- all featured in a one-minute nonstop aria of political miscues.
The simultaneous visits to Ohio showed just how crucial the state's 18 electoral votes are considered to be in the fall election. Polls show that the men are in a virtual dead heat in the state. For myriad reasons, Ohio tends to be a predictor of the presidential race, but the state is an outlier in some ways. The unemployment rate here, at 7.4 percent, is almost a point below the national rate.
After Cleveland, Mr. Obama headed to New York on another money run, this one a fund-raiser at the home of Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick, co-hosted by the Vogue editor Anna Wintour.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama speaking at Cuyahoga Community College in Cleveland on Thursday. Mitt Romney appeared in Cincinnati. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); RECESSION (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); VERDICTS (56%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (90%) OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



586 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: The Political Contrast

 BODY:
President Obama sometimes forgets that an important speech does not have to be endless. On Thursday, appearing before supporters at a Cleveland community college, he spent 53 minutes on the stark contrast between his goals and the failed Bush-era policies that Mitt Romney is trying to resurrect. It's hard to imagine that the speech, overgrown as it was with policy details, won the hearts of many independent voters yearning for a clear understanding of how much is at stake in November.
That doesn't mean that the principal point Mr. Obama made on Thursday isn't worth considerable repetition: There is no meaningful difference between the trickle-down economics of George W. Bush, rejected by the country in 2008, and the plans supported by Mr. Romney and his Republican allies in Congress. All the elements are there, from the slavish devotion to tax cuts for the rich, to a contempt for government regulation, to savage cutbacks in programs for those at the bottom. 
''If you want to give the policies of the last decade another try, then you should vote for Mr. Romney,'' he said. ''You should take them at their word, and they will take America down this path. And Mr. Romney is qualified to deliver on that plan.''
Mr. Romney, in fact, helped reinforce the president's point with his own speech minutes before, in which he denounced virtually all forms of regulation, from ones cleaning the air to those preventing banks from engaging in the same destructive behavior that produced the Great Recession on Mr. Bush's watch. If only the government would get out of the way, he suggested, and stop trying to cover those without health insurance, or keep the groundwater clean, then jobs would magically reappear.
Of course, that didn't happen when Mr. Bush tried it; painfully slow job growth was followed by a recession that shed nine million jobs. The proposals made by Mr. Obama in Cleveland are more likely to put people back to work: invest more money in education, job training and rebuilding infrastructure. Focus more on developing new energy sources than pulling globe-warming coal from the ground. Lower the deficit through higher taxes on the rich, which could lead to a pact to cut spending responsibly.
The Republican recalcitrance on taxes has led to a Washington stalemate that the president referred to eight times in his speech, saying it can be broken only by the voters. But Mr. Obama's re-election cannot, by itself, end the impasse. It is once his opponents' free-market ideas are fully seen to be bankrupt that Congress will either change or begin acting in the country's interest. Breaking the grip of these ideas truly is, as Mr. Obama said Thursday, ''a make-or-break moment for America's middle class.''
And it is there that Mr. Obama still has not made his case. Mr. Romney's entire campaign rests on a foundation of short, utterly false sound bites. The stimulus failed. (Three million employed people beg to differ.) The auto bailout was a mistake. (Another million jobs.) Spending is out of control. (Spending growth is actually lower than under all modern Republican presidents.) He says these kinds of things so often that millions of Americans believe them to be the truth.
It is hard to challenge these lies with a well-reasoned-but-overlong speech -- just as, in an odd juxtaposition, Mr. Obama failed to make his case for his Afghanistan policy in a speech in May that was both too short and too shallow. The president has less than five months to find a way to make a vital message sink in.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ELECTIONS (79%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



587 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: From Obama's Playbook, Romney Ad on Economy

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
Mitt Romney steals a trick from an unlikely source for his latest ad: President Obama. But in this case, imitation is more mockery than the sincerest form of flattery. 
A new 30-second Romney campaign commercial called ''Doing Fine'' copies the music, pacing and script nearly verbatim from a 2008 Obama ad that took Senator John McCain to task for his well-known remark that ''the fundamentals of our economy are strong.''
But in the new ad, the Romney campaign takes the president's recent statement - ''the private sector is doing fine'' - and uses it to make him appear out of touch.
Viewers see a litany of depressing economic statistics: 23.2 million Americans looking for work; 40 straight months of over 8 percent unemployment; millions of homeowners with mortgages underwater. Then the president is shown behind the lectern in the White House briefing room.
The text on screen asks incredulously: ''The private sector is doing fine? How can President Obama fix our economy if he doesn't understand it's broken?''
In the 2008 Obama ad, the setup was the same. Viewers were shown a raft of numbers and grim facts, although more devastating ones: 605,000 jobs lost; the collapse of Lehman Brothers; 9,800 home foreclosures a day.
And the kicker? Sub Mr. McCain's name for the president's: ''How can John McCain fix our economy if he doesn't understand it's broken?''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); STATISTICS (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); EMPLOYMENT (68%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MITT ROMNEY (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



588 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: We Don't Need No Education

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Hope springs eternal. For a few hours I was ready to applaud Mitt Romney for speaking honestly about what his calls for smaller government actually mean.
Never mind. Soon the candidate was being his normal self, denying having said what he said and serving up a bunch of self-contradictory excuses. But let's talk about his accidental truth-telling, and what it reveals.
In the remarks Mr. Romney later tried to deny, he derided President Obama: ''He says we need more firemen, more policemen, more teachers.'' Then he declared, ''It's time for us to cut back on government and help the American people.'' 
You can see why I was ready to give points for honesty. For once, he actually admitted what he and his allies mean when they talk about shrinking government. Conservatives love to pretend that there are vast armies of government bureaucrats doing who knows what; in reality, a majority of government workers are employed providing either education (teachers) or public protection (police officers and firefighters).
So would getting rid of teachers, police officers, and firefighters help the American people? Well, some Republicans would prefer to see Americans get less education; remember Rick Santorum's description of colleges as ''indoctrination mills''? Still, neither less education nor worse protection are issues the G.O.P. wants to run on.
But the more relevant question for the moment is whether the public job cuts Mr. Romney applauds are good or bad for the economy. And we now have a lot of evidence bearing on that question.
First of all, there's our own experience. Conservatives would have you believe that our disappointing economic performance has somehow been caused by excessive government spending, which crowds out private job creation. But the reality is that private-sector job growth has more or less matched the recoveries from the last two recessions; the big difference this time is an unprecedented fall in public employment, which is now about 1.4 million jobs less than it would be if it had grown as fast as it did under President George W. Bush.
And, if we had those extra jobs, the unemployment rate would be much lower than it is -- something like 7.3 percent instead of 8.2 percent. It sure looks as if cutting government when the economy is deeply depressed hurts rather than helps the American people.
The really decisive evidence on government cuts, however, comes from Europe. Consider the case of Ireland, which has reduced public employment by 28,000 since 2008 -- the equivalent, as a share of population, of laying off 1.9 million workers here. These cuts were hailed by conservatives, who predicted great results. ''The Irish economy is showing encouraging signs of recovery,'' declared Alan Reynolds of the Cato Institute in June 2010.
But recovery never came; Irish unemployment is currently more than 14 percent. Ireland's experience shows that austerity in the face of a depressed economy is a terrible mistake to be avoided if possible.
And the point is that in America it is possible. You can argue that countries like Ireland had and have very limited policy choices. But America -- which unlike Europe has a federal government -- has an easy way to reverse the job cuts that are killing the recovery: have the feds, who can borrow at historically low rates, provide aid that helps state and local governments weather the hard times. That, in essence, is what the president was proposing and Mr. Romney was deriding.
So the former governor of Massachusetts was telling the truth the first time: by opposing aid to beleaguered state and local governments, he is, in effect, calling for more layoffs of teachers, policemen and firemen.
Actually, it's kind of ironic. While Republicans love to engage in Europe-bashing, they're actually the ones who want us to emulate European-style austerity and experience a European-style depression.
And that's not just an inference. Last week R. Glenn Hubbard of Columbia University, a top Romney adviser, published an article in a German newspaper urging the Germans to ignore advice from Mr. Obama and continue pushing their hard-line policies. In so doing, Mr. Hubbard was deliberately undercutting a sitting president's foreign policy. More important, however, he was throwing his support behind a policy that is collapsing as you read this.
In fact, almost everyone following the situation now realizes that Germany's austerity obsession has brought Europe to the edge of catastrophe -- almost everyone, that is, except the Germans themselves and, it turns out, the Romney economic team.
Needless to say, this bodes ill if Mr. Romney wins in November. For all indications are that the his idea of smart policy is to double down on the very spending cuts that have hobbled recovery here and sent Europe into an economic and political tailspin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); LAYOFFS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); JOB CREATION (72%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



589 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: Obama Visits New York for Star-Studded Fund-Raisers

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
President Obama swept through New York on Thursday evening for a pair of high-dollar, high-wattage fund-raisers where some of the city's top fashion luminaries lent their cash and their star power to his re-election campaign.
Under heavy security and the close scrutiny of celebrity news outfits like ''Inside Edition,'' the president and the first lady arrived at the West Village townhouse of the actress Sarah Jessica Parker for a $40,000-per-plate dinner co-hosted by Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue and one of the Obama campaign's highest-profile donation bundlers. 
The event drew not just big names in fashion design like Michael Kors, Kenneth Cole and Millard Drexler, but also stars of film and music like Meryl Streep and Aretha Franklin.
Ms. Franklin left the event early and stopped to chat with a group of reporters and photographers who were being kept at bay in a holding pen across the street from Ms. Parker's home. Asked what the president said to her, Ms. Franklin exclaimed, ''Whoa! The Queen of Soul!''
Inside the house, Mr. Obama delivered a standard speech, taking Republicans to task for what he said was an expensive distortion campaign. Summing up their attacks, he said, '' 'It's the fault of the guy in the White House.' ''
''It's an elegant message,'' he added. ''It happens to be wrong.''
Then he fielded questions, with Ms. Wintour moderating. ''Anna is going to moderate,'' he said of the no-nonsense editor, ''to make sure I don't call on the wrong person.''
The stop at the home of Ms. Parker and her husband, the actor Matthew Broderick, was just part of the president's short, schedule-packed dash through New York. After landing at Kennedy Airport, he boarded a helicopter for the short flight to Lower Manhattan, where he visited ground zero and the construction site at 1 World Trade Center.
He and Mrs. Obama signed one of the building's beams and were joined by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.
After the visit to the Parker-Broderick home, Mr. Obama headed uptown to the Plaza for a second star-studded fund-raiser. Mariah Carey was on hand for a performance.
With a rise in the unemployment rate and with the economic recovery sputtering, critics have tried to turn the president's association with fashion chic and celebrity into a liability. And an unfortunate bit of timing did not help. The Obama campaign released a video with Ms. Wintour promoting Thursday's fund-raiser on the same day that the Labor Department's May jobs report showed some troubling signs of economic weakness.
Juan Williams, a Fox News analyst who generally expresses moderate political views, said of the video, ''It looked like the Romney campaign planted Dr. Evil in the house of Obama and he said, 'You know, on the day the grim job numbers come out let's have someone who reeks of ornamental excess announce that the peasants can have a place at the table.' ''
Thursday's New York Post published a color photo of a maid buffing up the door to Ms. Parker's townhouse. ''SJP has the help primp home for prez fund-raiser,'' the headline read.
Residents of Charles Street, accustomed to the occasional paparazzi stalking their block in pursuit of Ms. Parker and Mr. Broderick, seemed to have little issue adjusting to the temporary inconveniences of a presidential visit.
''It happens,'' said Ruth Abel, an executive assistant and an undecided voter who was walking her dogs Thursday evening. ''The worst thing is they took away all the trash cans. So what are you supposed to do when you have a doggy present to get rid of?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, members of the Secret Service outside the West Village home of the actors Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick, below, spectators awaiting the arrival of President Obama. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FASHION DESIGN (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (62%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); HELICOPTERS (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); SARAH JESSICA PARKER (89%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%); MICKEY DREXLER (57%); MERYL STREEP (57%); MARIAH CAREY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



590 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Parties Plan Next Move Once Supreme Court Rules on Health Care

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- House Republicans are not waiting for the Supreme Court verdict on the new health care law to plot their strategic response. If the measure is not thrown out entirely, House leaders plan to force a vote immediately to repeal the law to reinforce their deep opposition to the legislation, opposition that has become central to their political identity.
The emerging game plan for the Republicans who control the House is just one element of the coordinated planning by groups on both sides of the issue as the Supreme Court ruling approaches as early as next week. The Republican National Committee, in consultation with Congressional campaign offices and Mitt Romney's presidential campaign, is readying a war room. The National Republican Congressional Campaign has mounted a petition drive for repeal, complete with a function to allow signers to watch their faxed petitions arrive over the Internet.
At the White House, which has much riding on the case, top officials continue to project confidence that the court will rule in its favor and that the administration will move on to put the law into force. But White House allies and advocates of the new law do not necessarily share that view and are gearing up in the event of an unfavorable decision. 
Representatives of groups favoring the law from crucial political battlegrounds converged on Washington this week for two days of meetings to coordinate their political response at the behest of Families USA, one of the law's most stalwart defenders. Democratic aides on Capitol Hill are readying a comeback intended to force Republicans to show their hand on the issue of the uninsured.
House Democrats have been issued a ''pocket card'' to carry with them, spelling out in big numbers how the law has already helped people: 86 million who have received free preventive care, 105 million who no longer face a lifetime cap on benefits, and as many as 17 million children who can no longer be denied coverage because of pre-existing health conditions.
And the health insurance industry has started a lobbying and social media effort to drive home its contention that popular regulatory provisions in the law cannot survive if the Supreme Court strikes down the mandate that all Americans buy health insurance.
''Our focus is making people understand the inextricable link between the coverage mandate and the rest of the insurance regulations,'' said Robert Zirkelbach, a spokesman for America's Health Insurance Plans, the industry group behind a campaign known simply as ''The Link.''
The Supreme Court's decision is expected as early as next week but more likely the following week. Rarely in the high court's history has a decision had so much riding on it, for the economy, for the vast health care industry and for the nation's body politic -- from the White House race to the 435 House campaigns.
After a burst of prognostication around oral arguments over the health care law, known as the Affordable Care Act, groups on both sides have fallen back into a state of nervous anticipation. No one is certain how the court will rule, or how the politics will shake out in the aftermath.
Lawmakers, political strategists and activists are preparing for three contingencies: the court upholds the law, the court invalidates the insurance-purchasing mandate but preserves most of the law, or the court throws out the law, Mr. Obama's signature domestic achievement. In the event that the law it is crippled or eviscerated, the contest will be to ensure that the other party is held responsible, not only for the popular provisions that are lost but what comes next for the 46 million Americans still without health insurance.
Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, said that unless the court throws out the law in its entirety, House Republicans intend to push the issue back to the floor of the House and call for its repeal.
Since Republicans believe that health insurance companies are contractually obligated to maintain some of the most popular provisions, like allowing adults under age 26 to remain on their parents' health plans or ending lifetime payment caps, until the next open insurance enrollment period, they contend there will be less pressure on Republicans to produce the ''replace'' part of their promise to ''repeal and replace'' the Affordable Care Act. Republicans say their view was bolstered by recent signs from the health insurance industry that they will retain some popular benefits.
''I don't think we would take the step of countering with a comprehensive, thousands-of-pages bill like Obamacare, no,'' Mr. Cantor said. ''I don't think that's what the country wanted. I think that's what scared so many people.''
After a repeal vote, Republicans plan to first let the dust settle. Then, Mr. Cantor said, they would move forward incrementally with bills to allow the purchase of insurance across state lines, to loosen restrictions on consumers wishing to change insurers, and to bolster tax-preferred health savings accounts. When several Republican lawmakers suggested popular parts of the health care law would be maintained, conservatives loudly revolted. Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio stepped in to say the law must be wiped clean before any next steps are taken.
A senior Republican House aide said it was up to the White House, not Republicans, to produce a contingency plan for those left behind by a court invalidation, like the thousands of sick people or consumers with pre-existing conditions in new federally backed high-risk pools.
Even before those moves, advocates are trying to seed the political battleground. The conservative group American Crossroads and Crossroads GPS began a $4.6 million advertising campaign against six Democratic Senate candidates on Wednesday, including an attack on Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota centered on ''Obamacare.''
On the other side of the issue, Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, said advocates of the law from the most politically important states are gathering to coordinate messages for the week ahead. The most important task is to impress on voters that the court's ruling will likely have no impact on the heart of the health care law -- health coverage to the uninsured, started in 2014, through the expansion of Medicaid, the establishment of state-run health insurance exchanges and tax subsidies for the purchase of private insurance plans on those exchanges.
The Supreme Court may well toss out the mandate to purchase insurance, and without that mandate, two of the most popular regulations may have to go: the ban on denial of coverage for pre-existing conditions and an end to variable insurance rates for different populations.
''If the court invalidates the mandate and invalidates those two key insurance market reforms, we need to make sure the public does not see that as meaning the law is killed,'' Mr. Pollack said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A child atop her mother's shoulders joined a crowd at the Supreme Court on the second day of oral arguments in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LOBBYING (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FAMILY (78%); PETITIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (66%); CHILDREN (64%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (61%)

COMPANY: AMERICA'S HEALTH PLAN INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



591 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
A BURMESE LEADER'S
RETURN TO EUROPE
Daw Aung San Suu Kyi of Myanmar kicked off her first visit to Europe after nearly a quarter of a century by appearing in Geneva to appeal for investment that reinforces Myanmar's progress toward democracy. Page A4
BRITAIN AND IRAN CONFER 
The foreign ministers of Britain and Iran conferred on the sidelines of a security conference in Afghanistan, the highest-level contact between the two nations since protesters in Tehran pillaged the British Embassy and a diplomatic residence in November. Page A7
SENATOR SEEKS NUCLEAR CUTS
The chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee called on the Obama administration to seek cuts in nuclear warheads far beyond the requirements of current treaties. Page A8
REAL FIGHTERS, FAKE GUNS
A video announcement posted on YouTube shows Syrian opposition fighters of a special forces brigade joining the battle against President Bashar al-Assad, each posing with submachine guns. It is a standard show of menace and might, but for one thing: the weapons these men held were actually plastic replicas made in China. Page A15
National
OREGON COURT RELEASES
BOY SCOUTS' DOCUMENTS
Oregon's highest court cleared the way for the release of thousands of pages of documents detailing accusations and investigations of sexual abuse or other improprieties by Boy Scout leaders around the nation from the mid-1960s into the 1980s. Page A21
G.O.P. PLANS FOR HEALTH BILL
If the new health care law is not thrown out entirely by the Supreme Court, House Republicans plan to force a vote immediately to repeal the law to reinforce their deep opposition to the legislation. Page 22
NEVADA DROPS CHARGES
Nevada authorities have dropped criminal charges against a researcher who gained worldwide attention for scientific reports linking chronic fatigue syndrome to an obscure mouse retrovirus. Page A26
New York
KEEPING A THIRSTY CITY
IN COOL, CLEAN WATER
New York's parks department employs a force of 43 plumbers to keep the city's 3,114 drinking fountains flowing as millions of parched New Yorkers and tourists descend on playgrounds, ball fields, beaches and parks. Page A30
Business
SWITZERLAND AND BRITAIN
BRACE FOR A COMING STORM
The two largest European economies that do not use the euro announced measures to help shelter their countries from a crisis that has engulfed Greece and Spain and appears poised to sweep over Italy. Page B1
OIL CARTEL TO KEEP OUTPUT
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries left unchanged a ceiling for oil production at a meeting in Vienna, despite signs of a slowdown in the global economy and slumping oil prices. Page B2
INQUEST IN DIALYSIS CENTER
The Food and Drug Administration is investigating whether the nation's largest operator of dialysis centers violated federal regulations by failing to inform customers of a potentially lethal risk connected to one of its products, an F.D.A. official said. Page B3
Sports
PERFECTION OF GIANTS' CAIN
MATCHED BY HIS DOMINANCE
On Wednesday night, Matt Cain of the San Francisco Giants threw not just a perfect game, but perhaps the second-greatest perfect game in baseball history. Page B11
Weekend
LIVING IN THE PAST
IS A FULL-TIME GIG
Michael Arenella, a 34-year-old musician from Brooklyn, looks as if he has stepped directly from the jazz age. He tries as much as possible to live within that area, from the clothes to the cars to the music. Page C19
Op-Ed
David Brooks PAGE A33

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); GLOBALIZATION (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); FIREARMS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); SEX OFFENSES (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (64%); CHRONIC DISEASES (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (63%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (63%); CARTELS (60%); DIALYSIS (60%); DIALYSIS CENTERS (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); VIRUSES (50%); CHRONIC FATIGUE SYNDROME (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OREGON SUPREME COURT (55%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) MYANMAR (95%); EUROPE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); SPAIN (79%); SYRIA (79%); GREECE (78%); IRAN (73%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



592 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: New Detroit-to-Canada Bridge to Be Unveiled

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY and IAN AUSTEN; Monica Davey reported from Chicago, and Ian Austen from Ottawa. Steven Yaccino contributed reporting from Chicago.

 BODY:
American and Canadian leaders are to unveil plans on Friday for a new bridge linking Detroit and Windsor, Ontario, opening a new chapter in a long and contentious debate over the future of a region that has become one of the nation's busiest border crossings.
Formal announcements were planned in both countries about the bridge, which is expected to cost just under $1 billion and be built through a public-private partnership. The entire project is likely to cost several billion dollars beyond that, documents show, to create connections and modifications to nearby roadways and customs plazas in both countries. 
For now, Detroit is connected to Canada by a tunnel and the Ambassador Bridge, a privately owned link that was built more than 80 years ago and carries millions of commercial and other vehicles between the two countries each year. For years, some leaders in Michigan and in Canada have pressed for another bridge -- one that could, they argued, allow more traffic to make the journey more efficiently and encourage more international trade for the auto industry and other businesses.
Many steps remain, and a precise timetable for a new bridge was uncertain. But by Thursday, the Center for Automotive Research, a research group in Ann Arbor, was among those predicting a long list of benefits a new bridge would draw, among them, 6,000 new jobs during the first two years of construction and hundreds of additional jobs to operate the bridge.
Still, the proposal is certain to draw its share of critics, including the Detroit International Bridge Company, which owns the Ambassador Bridge. The company has long opposed proposals for a second, public bridge, and is leading a petition effort in Michigan to require a public vote on new bridges and tunnels. The planned site of the new bridge is about two miles from the Ambassador Bridge. Al Upchurch, a spokesman for the Detroit International Bridge Company, said Thursday that the company would not comment on the any new proposal until its details were made public.
In Michigan, Gov. Rick Snyder has pushed for a new bridge, saying it would spur economic growth, but state legislators in Lansing, many of whom are Mr. Snyder's fellow Republicans, have cited concerns about the costs. Last fall, a Senate committee failed to advance a bridge bill.
So Mr. Snyder, who insists that no Michigan funds will be needed to build the bridge, has proceeded with plans without legislative backing, suggesting that he does not need it under the type of arrangement he and Canadian authorities will describe on Friday.
Canadian officials have indicated they would pay as much as $550 million of Michigan's share for construction. Toll collections would ultimately pay for the bridge's costs, officials said. On that side of the border, officials said, congestion has particularly become a problem from the Ambassador Bridge, which leads to a busy arterial road rather than a direct expressway.
The announcement comes at a challenging time for the auto industries in both countries. The industry is one of the largest employers in Ontario, and most politicians are eager to remove border congestion that could diminish Canada as an automobile manufacturing center. American automakers are also eager to have easier access to a significant market for their cars and parts.
Because Canada's auto plants stockpile fewer parts, they must be fed a steady stream of parts to keep operating. Mark A. Nantais, the president of the Canadian Vehicle Manufacturers' Association, said that congestion at the crossing between Detroit and Windsor had sometimes caused temporary plant shutdowns, which, he said, can cost manufacturers about $1.5 million an hour. Truckloads of autos and auto parts account for a significant amount of the Ambassador Bridge's traffic, he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A new bridge between Detroit and Windsor, Ontario, could help to alleviate traffic on the Ambassador Bridge. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (66%); PETITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (60%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: RICK SNYDER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (97%); LANSING, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (97%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



593 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; GREEN; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. to Propose Rule to Significantly Reduce Fine-Particle Soot

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency has proposed new national air quality standards that would significantly reduce levels of fine-particle soot.
The rule, to be announced on Friday, would reduce the range of fine particulates allowed in the atmosphere by roughly 17 percent, according to an agency official who spoke on condition of anonymity, and Paul G. Billings, a vice president of the American Lung Association, who said he had been briefed on the standard by Obama administration officials.
A Thursday deadline had been imposed by a federal judge in a legal battle waged by 11 states and health and conservation groups. 
Still, the industry and many Congressional Republicans are likely to oppose that level - 12 to 13 micrograms per cubic foot of air, down from 15, calculated on an annual basis - as burdensome and potentially damaging to the economy.
The agency is required to issue a final rule by mid-December after holding hearings to seek public comment. Under the Clean Air Act, the E.P.A. is required to consider revising its soot standards every five years, and it last did so in 2006. Yet as it approached the five-year deadline last October, it said it wanted to delay issuing the rule until the summer of 2013 because it needed more time to sift through the latest scientific research.
Eleven states, including New York and California, and the American Lung Association and the National Parks Conservation Association, challenged the delay in court, arguing that it violated the Clean Air Act.
On June 2, Judge Robert L. Wilkins of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ordered the E.P.A. to sign a proposed rule by June 7, a deadline that was later extended to Thursday under an agreement between the agency and the plaintiffs.
Fine-particle soot, which can settle deep into the lungs and the circulatory system, is among the deadliest contaminants to which the American public is regularly exposed and causes thousands of premature deaths annually from heart and lung complications.
The E.P.A.'s proposal comes asPresident Obama faces both a re-election battle focusing on his handling of the economy and fierce opposition from Congressional Republicans on any new environmental regulation. In one concession, the administration backed off last September from efforts to tighten ozone regulations - a delay that has also been challenged by states and public health advocates in federal court.
The proposed soot rule is certain to be debated until a final particulate level for the new standard is set after the November elections.
Public health advocates praised the proposed rule as an effective one, if overdue, that could help prevent tens of thousands of premature deaths each year from asthma, heart attacks and lung disease.
''The American Lung Association is pleased that they have proposed a much tighter particle pollution standard that will prevent thousands of premature deaths and tens of thousands of asthma attacks each year,'' Mr. Billings said. ''We will examine the proposal and work through the public comment process to urge the most protective standard.''
He said his group hoped to persuade the agency to further reduce the allowable range of soot, to 11 micrograms per cubic meter.
But Jeffrey R. Holmstead, who led the E.P.A.'s Air Office under the administration of PresidentGeorge W. Bush and is now a partner at Bracewell & Giuliani, a lobbying firm with clients in energy and manufacturing, predicted that such an increase would result in a vast array of restrictions for those sectors. ''It may not sound like much, lowering the standard from 15 to 13, but it will mean a lot more regulations in many parts of the country,'' he said. ''I suspect this action will attract a lot of attention from the Hill.''
Disputes over new standards for soot, which includes tiny particles less than one-30th of the diameter of a human hair that come largely from combustive activities like running cars and industrial power plants, have dragged on for years.
Enforcement of the ''annual'' maximum ceiling for fine particulates is based on an average measured on a rolling basis over a year. That standard has not been updated since 1997.
In 2006, the Bush administration lowered its so-called 24-hour soot ceiling by nearly half, to 35 micrograms per cubic meter. But it said that the science on health consequences did not justify lowering the annual ceiling.
That decision led to an uproar because the E.P.A. administrator,Stephen L. Johnson, had bypassed the recommendations of the agency's staff as well as those of independent science advisers.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); PARTICULATE MATTER (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ASTHMA (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); JUDGES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); HEART DISEASE (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



594 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. to Propose Rule to Significantly Reduce Fine-Particle Soot

BYLINE: By LESLIE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency has proposed new national air-quality standards that would significantly reduce levels of fine-particle soot, a plaintiff in a lawsuit against the agency said Thursday.
The rule, to be announced on Friday, would reduce the range of fine particulates allowed in the atmosphere by roughly 17 percent, according to proposed levels described by Paul G. Billings, a vice president of the American Lung Association, who said he had been briefed on the standard by Obama administration officials. A Thursday deadline had been imposed by a federal judge in a legal battle waged by 11 states and health and conservation groups.
Still, the industry and many Congressional Republicans are likely to oppose that level -- 12 to 13 micrograms per cubic foot of air, down from 15, calculated on an annual basis -- as burdensome and potentially damaging to the economy. The agency is required to issue a final rule by mid-December after holding hearings to seek public comment. Under the Clean Air Act, the E.P.A. is required to consider revising its soot standards every five years, and it last did so in 2006. Yet as it approached the five-year deadline last October, it said it wanted to delay issuing the rule until the summer of 2013 because it needed more time to sift through the latest scientific research. 
Eleven states, including New York and California, and the American Lung Association and the National Parks Conservation Association, challenged the delay in court, arguing that it violated the Clean Air Act.
On June 2, Judge Robert L. Wilkins of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia ordered the E.P.A. to sign a proposed rule by June 7, a deadline that was later extended to Thursday under an agreement between the agency and the plaintiffs.
Fine-particle soot, which can settle deep into the lungs and the circulatory system, is among the deadliest contaminants to which the American public is regularly exposed and causes thousands of premature deaths annually from heart and lung complications.
The E.P.A.'s proposal comes as President Obama faces both a re- election battle focusing on his handling of the economy and fierce opposition from Congressional Republicans on any new environmental regulation. In one concession, the administration backed off last September from efforts to tighten ozone regulations -- a delay that has also been challenged by states and public health advocates in federal court.
The proposed soot rule is certain to be furiously debated until a final particulate level for the new standard is set after the November elections.
Public health advocates praised the proposed rule as an effective one, if overdue, that could help prevent tens of thousands of premature deaths each year from asthma, heart attacks and lung disease.
''The American Lung Association is pleased that they have proposed a much tighter particle pollution standard that will prevent thousands of premature deaths and tens of thousands of asthma attacks each year,'' Mr. Billings said. ''We will examine the proposal and work through the public comment process to urge the most protective standard.''
He said his group hoped to persuade the agency to further reduce the allowable range of soot, to 11 micrograms per cubic meter.
But Jeffrey R. Holmstead, who led the E.P.A.'s Air Office under the administration of President George W. Bush and is now a partner at Bracewell & Giuliani, a lobbying firm with clients in energy and manufacturing, predicted that such an increase would result in a vast array of restrictions for those sectors. ''It may not sound like much, lowering the standard from 15 to 13, but it will mean a lot more regulations in many parts of the country,'' he said. ''I suspect this action will attract a lot of attention from the Hill.''
Disputes over new standards for soot, which includes tiny particles less than one-30th of the diameter of a human hair that come largely from combustive activities like running cars and industrial power plants, have dragged on for years.
Enforcement of the ''annual'' maximum ceiling for fine particulates is based on an average measured on a rolling basis over a year. That standard has not been updated since 1997.
In 2006, the Bush administration lowered its so-called 24-hour soot ceiling by nearly half, to 35 micrograms per cubic meter. But it said that the science on health consequences did not justify lowering the annual ceiling.
That decision led to an uproar because the E.P.A. administrator, Stephen L. Johnson, had bypassed the recommendations of the agency's staff as well as those of independent science advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (93%); PARTICULATE MATTER (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); JUDGES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); ASTHMA (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); HEART DISEASE (66%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LUNG ASSOCIATION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



595 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Putting China's Economic Power in Perspective

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: People in the developed world are more likely to say that China is the world's leading economic power, whereas people in the developing world -- and the Chinese -- are more likely to say the United States is. 

 BODY:
In January, David Leonhardt noted a finding that more Americans said China was the world's leading superpower than said the United States was. New global survey data from Pew Research Center suggests this view is becoming more widespread around the world -- although, tellingly, not in China itself.
Pew conducted annual surveys in 14 different countries by telephone or through face-to-face interviews from 2008 to 2012, and asked about which country was considered to be the leading superpower. Economic awe for China surpassed that for the United States in the last year:
Not all people in all countries feel this way, of course.
Here's a breakdown, by country, of responses to the question when it was asked this spring. The left column shows which country was answering the question, and the rows show what percentage of respondents in that country said the United States, China, Japan or the European Union is the world's leading economic power.
Since that post in January, Americans have actually become about as likely to name their own country as the world's leading economic power as they are to name China (40 percent naming the United States, 41 percent China).
But as you can see, it's primarily the world that views China as the greater juggernaut. Britain, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Greece and the Czech Republic are among the countries whose populations are more likely to say China's economic power has eclipsed America's.
Now look at the world. In most of these countries -- Turkey, Tunisia, Pakistan, India, Brazil and Mexico -- respondents were significantly more likely to rate the United States as more economically powerful than China.
Even in China -- where you might expect patriotism to buoy citizens' assessments of their economy -- respondents were far more likely to say the United States rather than China is the world's leading economic power (48 percent said the United States was most powerful, and 29 percent named China).
Why might the Chinese feel this way, when their growth rate was four times ours last quarter?
Because that spectacular Chinese growth is coming from a very low base, as William Easterly, a development economist at New York University, reminds us in a related post. Additionally, the country's overall wealth is divided among a gigantic population.
Put those factors together and you get a country where incomes are growing quickly, but most people are still very poor. The typical person is going from really poor to somewhat less poor. The gross domestic product per capita in China was $8,400 in 2011; in the United States, it was nearly six times that, at $48,100.
People in China (and the rest of the developing world) know that their living standards are lower than Americans', and that American consumers and American economic leadership still have vast sway over what happens in the poorer corners of the world. On the other hand, people in the developed world read about sky-high economic growth and the country's displacement of workers in rich countries, and believe China is already the biggest economic power.
Of course, economic "power" could be judged by other things besides wealth -- such as the ability to keep the world economy from blowing up. In that case, the one-sixth of Germans who named the European Union as the world's biggest economic power are probably correct.

        
Surpassing the Great American Consumer
        
Do Parents Put Too Much Pressure on Students?
        
The World Economy Shifts Eastward
        
The Return of China
        
Could Rising Oil Prices Reverse Globalization?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%) China; international economics; Pew Research Center; Polls and Public Opinion; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%) Pew Research Center

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); FRANCE (77%); GERMANY (75%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%); GREECE (56%) China

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



596 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Still A Phantom Menace

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Runaway inflation, still not happening. 

 BODY:
The policy response to financial crisis has, in effect, given us a great natural experiment in macroeconomics -- an experiment that can and should be viewed as a test of two views of the economy. One view -- which includes both freshwater macro and much of what Austrians say -- is in effect classical macro as Keynes described it, in which the economy is always constrained by supply. The other is a more or less Keynesian view in which a depressed economy is constrained by demand, not supply. 
These two views had strong implications on three fronts. One was interest rates: would large budget deficits drive rates up, as a classical view implied, or would they do no such thing under depression conditions? A second was the effects of austerity (which has been much larger than the weak efforts at stimulus, and therefore provides the real test); would austerity policies release resources to the private sector, as per the classical view, or lead to economic contraction? Finally, a third implication involved inflation: would large increases in the monetary base produce soaring inflation, again as classicists of all kinds claimed, or do no such thing under depression conditions?
You know how things have gone on the interest rate and austerity fronts. Let's do an update on inflation.
Early last year the inflationistas were yelling a lot; commodity prices had jumped, and they were shouting that high inflation was just around the corner, with much talk of debasing the currency and all that.
Whoops. 
A couple of further points. One refuge of some of the inflationistas has been to claim that the feds are cooking the data, that true inflation is much higher than reported. You can take those claims apart in detail, but a simpler answer may be just to look at independent inflation measures, like MIT's Billion Prices Index:
No hint of book-cooking there.
One other thing that has become clear is the usefulness of the concept of core inflation. The measures we have are imperfect reflections of the Platonic ideal; still, keeping your eye on core inflation has been a much better strategy than following the ups and downs of the headline rate:
To be fair, I and other have been surprised by the stubborn persistence of low core inflation; if you'd asked me three years ago, I would have predicted slight deflation by now. My current interpretation is that downward nominal wage rigidity is a bigger issue than we realized. But this is a relatively small failure of prediction compared with the dire forecasts of soaring interest and inflation rates.
Finally, I just want to flag this for the record:
Regardless of what the triumphant Keynesians would have you believe, my analysis continues to be that the current combination of monetary and fiscal stimulus is driving us toward disaster. Instead of a real recovery, the US will experience an inflationary depression. Europe, on the other hand, will suffer much less, precisely because it was not seduced by the short-term appeal of stimulus.
Yep.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); DEFLATION (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



597 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: An Earlier Housing Bubble

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: On the 17th-century Dutch craze for dollhouses. 

 BODY:
Bloomberg View's excellent economic history blog tells of an earlier housing bubble, from the same country and era that brought us tulip-mania.
This bubble concerned 17th-century Dutch dollhouses, which were both sentimentally and financially a precursor to the recent American housing bust:
[The dollhouses] were exact replicas, miniature rooms furnished with fine Dutch craftsmanship - tiny silver platters in the kitchen, inlaid walnut sideboards in the hall. ...

The dollhouses were "not playthings but miniature memorials, records of dearly beloved objects," according to Witold Rybczynski, author of "Home: A Short History of an Idea." He believes the bourgeois Dutch invented the very idea of "home." They brought "together the meaning of house and of household, of dwelling and of refuge, of ownership and of affection," he wrote. "You could walk out of the house, but you always returned home." ...
[The dollhouses] were also investments in themselves. They were commissioned and sold at auction, in the same way as oil paintings and other luxury crafts. Collectors tracked their worth as investments in account books. They were listed as assets in dowries. One collector charged admission to visitors. A dollhouse owned by an Amsterdam merchant's wife named Petronella Oortman, which is displayed at the Rijksmuseum, was worth almost the price of an actual canal house.
I wonder: Can dollhouses be foreclosed upon?

        
What We're Reading: A 'Hella' Big Number
        
Stocks Are Still Expensive
        
Is Another Housing Crash Coming?
        
Should You Worry About a U.S. Default?
        
Seattle's Foreseeable Housing Bust

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FORECLOSURE (75%); AUCTIONS (72%); WRITERS (70%); PAINTING (67%) bubbles; dollhouses; the Netherlands; Collectors and Collections

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) NETHERLANDS (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012



598 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Rail)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 1930 words

HEADLINE: Shifting the Paradigm for Training Racehorses

BYLINE: LESLIE KNAUF


HIGHLIGHT: The image of horses performing dressage movements at Saratoga Race Course might have seemed somewhat incongruous if interest in applying the principles of dressage to the training of thoroughbreds, both for racing as well as for their potential postracing careers, wasn't growing steadily. 

 BODY:
On Sunday afternoon of Memorial Day weekend, I stood at the outer rail along the backstretch at Saratoga Race Course watching horses and riders warming up and competing.
The horses were trotting and cantering on the historic track's dirt course, but they weren't there to race. Rather, they were executing the precise maneuvers of dressage tests within the confines of three rectangular, 20-by-60-meter arenas set up temporarily on the very same track where Triple Crown champions and first-time starters alike have galloped for more than a century.
Dressage at Saratoga, a horse show held annually on the main dirt track at the historic racecourse for the past 18 years, attracts a range of breeds - thoroughbreds, warmbloods and horses of unknown lineage - to compete on equal terms.
The image of horses performing dressage movements on the historic racecourse might have seemed somewhat incongruous if interest in applying the principles of dressage to the training of thoroughbreds, both for racing as well as for their potential postracing careers, wasn't growing steadily.
Dressage, a French word meaning "training," is perhaps best recognized as one of the three equestrian sports contested at the Olympic Games, along with jumping and three-day eventing, a three-phase discipline that includes dressage and stadium jumping components along with its signature cross-country jumping phase. (The modern pentathlon also includes an equestrian component.)
With riders dressed in formal attire - cutaway "shad belly" tail coats, top hats, white breeches and tall black boots are worn at the sport's upper levels - dressage is often viewed as an elegant form of "ballet on horseback" in which competitors demonstrate the ultimate in harmony between horse and rider.
Notwithstanding the comedian Stephen Colbert's recent sendup of the competitive aspect of the sport on his cable television show, "The Colbert Report," the highly contained nature of dressage, with its collection and extension of the horse's three gaits - walk, trot and canter - within a relatively small arena would appear to be the antithesis of racing - galloping at top speed around a vast oval - but its fundamental principles of rhythm, looseness, contact, impulsion, straightness and collection can provide a solid foundation for all forms of equestrian sports, including racing, where it already has had Triple Crown implications.
More than 35 years ago, the 1977 Triple Crown winner Seattle Slew was a gangly, unraced 2-year-old with significant coordination and conformational issues. Paula Turner, then the wife of Seattle Slew's trainer Billy Turner, reportedly used her previous training and competitive experience in dressage and three-day eventing to help Seattle Slew develop the impulsion and self-carriage the young colt needed to overcome his physical challenges as he embarked on his career as a racehorse.
A decade ago in England, the three-time Cheltenham Gold Cup steeplechase winner, Best Mate, was the beneficiary of regular schooling in dressage during his racing career, courtesy of his trainer, Henrietta Knight - also a former eventing competitor - to enhance the horse's suppleness.
Bonfire, a contender in the Epsom Derby, one of England's Triple Crown races, on June 2, previously had several dressage sessions with Dan Jocelyn, an international level eventing rider from New Zealand based in England, as part of the horse's overall training. (He finished sixth in the Derby.)
There's no question that an education in dressage can be beneficial to most thoroughbreds after their racing careers are over. In the late 1960s, I watched the great gelding and five-time Horse of the Year, Kelso, who by then was retired from racing, provide a dressage and jumping demonstration on the turf course at Saratoga during the race meeting. He was ridden in the exhibition by Lana duPont - the daughter of his owner, Mrs. Richard C. DuPont - who earlier made history as the first woman to compete in three-day eventing at the 1964 Olympics in Tokyo on another thoroughbred, Mr. Wister.
Just over a decade later, Hilda Gurney and her 17.2-hand thoroughbred, Keen, placed fourth in the dressage competition at the 1976 Olympics in Montreal, helping the United States team clinch the bronze medal in a sport traditionally dominated heavily by the Germans.
Long the breed of choice for three-day eventing, a thoroughbred, the 7-year-old gelding Might Tango who had raced as a 2-year-old in California, carried Bruce Davidson Sr. through the dressage, cross-country and stadium jumping phases at the newly built Kentucky Horse Park in Lexington to secure the world championship in eventing for the United States in 1978.
In 1996, Out and About, an 8-year-old American thoroughbred gelding, owned and ridden by Kerry Milliken, earned an individual bronze medal for the United States in three-day eventing at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta.
With its dressage, cross-country and stadium jumping phases, eventing remains a highly fertile postracing sport for former racehorses. Earlier this spring, 21 of the 58 horses entered in the prestigious Rolex Kentucky Three-Day Event - the top international level eventing competition in the United States - were former racehorses. The competition, held annually at the Kentucky Horse Park in late April, was won by the British rider William Fox-Pitt on Parklane Hawk, a 12-year-old New Zealand-bred thoroughbred gelding (originally named Park Lane) that had raced successfully until age 7.
Immediately after this year's Kentucky event, the Retired Racehorse Training Project (RRTP), an innovative, nonprofit organization whose mission is to promote the versatility of, and options for, retired thoroughbred racehorses, partnered with the New Vocations Race Horse Adoption Program at the latter's facility in Lexington to host a "Thoroughbreds for All!" symposium that brought together renowned experts from both the racing and the eventing worlds.
The program's aim was to showcase the talents of thoroughbred ex-racehorses, to debunk common myths about their highly-strung natures and their "unsuitability" for other horse sports at the conclusion of their racing careers, and to promote their viability as pleasure riding and sport horses.
The Kentucky symposium featured instructional sessions with international level three-day eventing riders, including Davidson and Dorothy Trapp Crowell, a granddaughter of the legendary Kentucky thoroughbred breeder Leslie Combs II who was the individual silver medalist in eventing at the 1994 World Equestrian Games in The Hague with her former racehorse, Molokai, among others.
The racing industry was represented at the symposium by the retired Hall of Fame jockey Chris McCarron and a pair of students from his North American Riding Academy, a training program for aspiring jockeys, who demonstrated the synergies between race riding techniques and other equestrian disciplines, including dressage.
The "Thoroughbreds for All!" initiative was conceived by the R.R.T.P.'s founder, Steuart Pittman, a top-level eventing rider, trainer, and horse breeder in Maryland, who currently is a member of the Subcommittee on Aftercare of the National Thoroughbred Racing Association's Safety and Integrity Alliance.
Shifting long-established paradigms for training thoroughbreds both before and after racing can be a challenging process, but Pittman is a man on a mission. In his "Listen to the Horse" blog, he describes the first Retired Racehorse Training Project symposium he conducted in 2009, where the nexus between classical dressage and race training quickly became evident.
"Retired jockey J. K. Adams rode Monster Chaser fresh from the track in an exercise saddle and racing silks," he wrote. "All 350 jaws in the arena dropped as he walked, trotted, and cantered in balance and rhythm around the indoor arena with the horse in a frame that looked quite appropriate for a competitive training level dressage test. His secret was his balance, his shock absorbers, and his hands."
Pittman is adamant that ex-racehorses have an advantage over other horses because of their racing experience, which encourages them to move freely forward. He feels it gives them a tremendous head start on their post-racing careers.
"The willingness to go forward, I believe, is the primary reason why horses off the track take so readily to the beginning stages of correct dressage training," he wrote.
While Pittman's goal for the Retired Racehorse Training Project might seem ambitious, it is not beyond the realm of possibility. In a presentation before the NTRA on expanding the market for retired racehorses at Kentucky's Keeneland Race Course in December, Pittman succinctly described the beneficial ripple effects that increased values for ex-race horses would offer beyond a racing career.
"Thoroughbred breeders would have an economic incentive to consider sport horse credentials in their breeding decisions; thoroughbred training centers would have a reason to adapt their breaking and training programs to better prepare horses for second careers because their clients would demand it; trainers and owners of racehorses would have an incentive to retire their horses sound, and owners would be more likely to put money into second career training," he wrote.
To further demonstrate his point, Pittman is planning to conduct another "Thoroughbreds for All!" symposium in Saratoga later this year, but his suggestions to increase the marketability of ex-racehorses already have started to gain real traction within the racing industry and equestrian communities in upstate New York and in New Jersey.
Earlier this year, the New York Racing Association (NYRA), the New York Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association (NYTHA), the New York Thoroughbred Breeders, Inc., and the New Jersey Thoroughbred Horsemen's Association earmarked $250,000 in prize money for a new initiative to designed to promote postracing careers for thoroughbreds. Called "Take 2", the program provided the prize money for thoroughbreds that compete in show hunter and jumper classes at three United States Equestrian Federation AA-rated horse shows in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and Augusta, N.J., in May and June.
A recently announced "Career 2" program directs a total of $30,000 in prize money supplied by NYRA and NYTHA toward thoroughbreds competing this year at any one of 10 designated eventing horse trials held in New York State between May and October that are sanctioned by the United States Eventing Association.
"Take 2" and "Career 2" build on the incentives established last fall by The Jockey Club's Thoroughbred Incentive Program, or "TIP", which establishes a model for recognizing and rewarding thoroughbreds, many of which are ex-racehorses, that excel in array of equestrian disciplines, including hunter and jumper classes at horse shows, at dressage shows, and in eventing at horse trials at dozens of competitions around the country, as well as at 4-H Club events, and in noncompetitive situations, such as equine-assisted therapy programs and police work.
If these new initiatives are any indication, the paradigm for racehorse training already is starting to shift toward incorporating fundamentals of other competitive horse sports, including dressage, as part of their racing training, which promises the potential for an even brighter future for racing's most important players.
The odds are heavily in favor of all involved - especially the horses - coming out as winners.
An earlier version of this article misspelled Stephen Colbert's given name as Steven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (93%); HORSE RACING (92%); HORSES (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TRACK & FIELD (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); OLYMPICS (72%) equestrian; retired racehorses; Davidson, Bruce; McCarron, Chris; Trapp, Dorothy; Horse Racing; Horsemanship and Equestrian Events; Jockey Club Incorporated (The); New York Racing Assn; Saratoga Race Course; Jockey Club Incorporated (The)|JKCL|other-OTC

ORGANIZATION: Jockey Club Incorporated (The); New York Racing Assn; Saratoga Race Course

TICKER: Jockey Club Incorporated (The); JKCL; other-OTC

PERSON: STEPHEN COLBERT (50%) Davidson, Bruce; McCarron, Chris; Trapp, Dorothy

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%); ENGLAND (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2012



599 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: How a Detroit Landlord Made His Properties Hot

BYLINE: MELINDA F. EMERSON


HIGHLIGHT: Urbane Apartments' rental fees are among the highest per square foot in the Detroit area. 

 BODY:
As we all know, Detroit has taken some hits during the economic downturn. But residents like Eric Brown, a real estate developer, are fighting back. The president of Urbane Apartments, Mr. Brown used his social media savvy to turn his Motor City apartment complexes into attractive locations for young professionals. He has built an online community and made Urbane Apartments a hub for all things cool and fun in Detroit.
Urbane Apartments consists of 15 apartment communities in and around metropolitan Detroit, with two in the downtown area. Each community is branded individually to reflect the unique features of the units and neighborhood. Essentially, Mr. Brown took 1960s vintage apartments, refurbished them and turned them into units that have created a buzz among young, professional singles who are willing to pay top dollar. Urbane Apartments' rental fees are among the highest per square foot in the Detroit area.
The units, some of which are in green buildings, feature amenities like colorfully painted walls, new hardwood or bamboo floors, black-on-black appliances, loft-style sliding doors, granite counter tops and modern lighting. Even during the heart of the recession, the company says its occupancy rates were 80 percent to 85 percent; they are now 98 percent to 100 percent. "Our product is fresh, and we've matched our marketing angle to that," Mr. Brown said. "Our business has a lot of character. We're a whimsical, eclectic and fun place to live - not luxury. We're not a BMW. Once we got clear about who we were and were not, it got easier to do our business." 
From the time he started the business in 2003, Mr. Brown said, he wanted to set himself apart from how most apartment units have been marketed by focusing on aspects like search engine optimization. "Traditional advertising is very expensive, particularly if you're smaller," he said. "I got slotted into looking like everyone else, which made me a commodity. I want to break away from being an apartment commodity. At the time, I figured, if we can build enough S.E.O. into what we are doing with our Web site, we can start to enhance the apartment experience, then people will start talking about it, and we will have built-in salespeople."
He started a Web site and introduced a blog, The Urbane Life, that discusses "everything hyper-local Detroit" -- the best sushi, the best hamburger, the best place to get your shirts cleaned and pressed. The blog averages 35 to 38 posts a month, and is written by a small staff of writers, including a few residents. "The blog talks about everything except our apartments," Mr. Brown said. "But every article links back to our apartment Web site, and we have almost 3,000 articles - that's a ton of content. If you're moving, you want to know about the features of an apartment, but that's just one piece. You also want to know about your neighborhood."
As a result, Mr. Brown said, the blog has become "a marketing machine." Urbane Apartments has served as the media partner for a local festival and a restaurant association's Restaurant Week, as well as the sponsor of a successful Ladies' Night Out organized by a merchants' association. For the Restaurant Week promotion, Mr. Brown featured short videos on his Web site that received 3,000 views over three weeks. He is now in discussion with 35 restaurant owners to do cross-promotion for free product offers on his Facebook page.
"We hitch our wagon to others' wagons to build our brand," he said. "For example, most women at the Ladies' Night Out event weren't renters, but they have sons or daughters or nieces or nephews or friends who might be. These types of events can get them talking about us. It's a win-win for everyone because it gets more people in our partners' doors, too. We've taken partnership marketing to the next level."
In addition, the Web site promotes the company's flexible pet policy (any breed of dog of any size is allowed at no cost), its convenient office hours (the leasing office is open from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m., Monday through Friday, and from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturdays and Sundays) and a "no pressure" policy that allows apartment hunters to see units on their own and to come back whenever they wish to show a significant other or take measurements. "There are so many rules, but do they even make sense?" Mr. Brown asked. "We went through all of the crazy rules and started to blow them up. It starts to create buzz."
Urbane Apartments attracts 75,000 unique visitors a month to its Web site, and it has 11,000 Facebook likes, 12,000 Twitter followers and an e-mail list of 16,000. "We're talking to people all day long on Facebook and Twitter - we mine for new potential customers there," Mr. Brown said. "You have to embrace your customers and have a conversation with them. Social media is like word-of-mouth on steroids. We craft content on our Web site that can be shared, which raises our chances exponentially for exposure. It takes a while, but you have to plant the seeds. And what you're putting out there has to be something of value, it has to help communicate and it has to give people something to talk about."

        
Can a Small Retailer Compete Online With the Big Boys?
        
Does This Service Provider's Web Site Make You Want the Service?
        
Why Aren't This Site's Visitors Buying?
        
Critiquing Executive Limousine's Web Site
        
What's Wrong With Executive Limousine's Web Site?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); WRITERS (60%) Eric Brown; S.E.O.; search engine optimization; social media; Urbane Apartments; Advertising and Marketing; Real Estate (Commercial); Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Recession and Depression; Small Business; Social Networking (Internet); Detroit (Mich); On Social Media

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2012



600 of 1137 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: June 15, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: 'Make-or-Break'

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama and Mitt Romney appeared in the same state Thursday, with the president framing a stark choice for voters. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:

        
President Obama tried to take back the offensive in the presidential race on Thursday, calling the election "a make-or-break moment for America's middle class," Helene Cooper and Michael Barbaro report. Appearing in the same state and at nearly the same time as Mitt Romney, Mr. Obama depicted the election as a decision between an effort to elevate the middle class and a return to the Republican policies he said had caused the recession.

        
Lawmakers are not waiting for the Supreme Court to announce its decision on the president's health care law, Jonathan Weisman and Michael D. Shear report. If the legislation is not tossed out in its entirety, House Republicans have planned an immediate vote to repeal it. Meanwhile, supporters of the law gathered in Washington this week to coordinate their response, while White House officials projected confidence the verdict would go their way.

        
Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said Thursday that he would comply in part with a subpoena for documents from the House Oversight Committee regarding the gun-trafficking operation known as "Fast and Furious," Michael S. Schmidt reports. Having been threatened by the committee's majority with being found in contempt of Congress, Mr. Holder said he believed this cooperation would "fully address the remaining concerns" in the matter.
Washington Happenings:

        
Mr. Obama will have lunch Friday with the winners of a campaign contest. Later, he will host a reception at the White House in honor of L.G.B.T. Pride Month, then he and his family will travel to Chicago.

        
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. is scheduled to speak at the annual meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors and attend a campaign event in Orlando, Fla.

        
The Air Force chief of staff, Gen. Norton A. Schwartz, will posthumously award the Silver Star to Capt. Francis Gary Powers, an American pilot in the Central Intelligence Agency's U-2 surveillance program who was captured by the Soviet Union after his plane was shot down in 1960.

        
The Early Word: Delineation
        
The Early Word: Dialing for Dollars
        
The Early Word: Rifts
        
The Weekend Word: Investigation
        
The Early Word: Disapproval

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); VERDICTS (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MAYORS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); HEALTH CARE LAW (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (67%); AIR FORCES (67%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%) The Early Word; The Caucus

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%); ERIC HOLDER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2012

 
