

601 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 2165 words

HEADLINE: Facts Of Life;
More Than Inspiration Is Needed to Fight AIDS

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
IN the 10 days since Magic Johnson announced that he is infected with the virus that causes AIDS, he has been courted by hundreds of health groups, invited by the President to serve on a commission and even asked to lend his name to a brand of condoms. Perfectly cast as an AIDS educator for the 1990's, he can hardly fail to do good. Yet those working frantically against the epidemic say it will take more than Magic to curb the insidious spread of HIV.
As AIDS becomes more deeply entrenched in the culture of poverty, inspiration alone can only help so much. Already, those answering Johnson's call to get tested for the virus may face months of waiting. Those who test positive and lack health insurance may find themselves in a three-month line just to see a doctor, let alone gain access to costly life-prolonging therapy. 
 Compared with the frenzy triggered by Rock Hudson's stunning disclosure of AIDS back in 1985, Johnson's announcement suggested just how far the country has come. Hudson hid his disease in shame almost to the end, speaking out only after reporters learned of his pitiful pilgrimage to Paris for an untested cure.
Johnson's open discussion of his infection with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, while he still stands healthy has been received with sadness, but also with a kind of national warmth, stoked by that wonderful smile. Within days Johnson's corporate sponsors, echoing President Bush, said they wanted a piece of Magic's new act. As a symbol, Johnson is easy to adopt. Attributing his infection to careless heterosexual promiscuity, he does not evoke the more uncomfortable but more pervasive faces of AIDS: homosexuality and drug use, poverty, homelessness and the spreading lack of access to health care.
As a black man and sports hero, Johnson will obviously be more credible with inner city youth than, say, Nancy Reagan with a message of "Just Say No" to drugs and unprotected sex. But a decade's experience shows that coaxing major behavior changes among those now most vulnerable to AIDS is devilishly hard. It depends not only on greater awareness but also on sustained, labor-intensive programs of education, counseling, HIV testing and medical care, not to mention costly, prolonged treatment for drug addicts.
"If because of Magic Johnson there is increased awareness and more people get tested, then we'll need more testing sites and we'll need more counselors," said Ronald Johnson, director of the Minority Task Force on AIDS in New York. "And then we have to provide a medical care delivery system."
Bound by the budget cap and an urgent need to increase funds for treatment of the sick, Congress expects, in the 1992 fiscal year, to reduce the $400 million Federal budget for AIDS education, testing and counseling by some $14 million. "We're being forced to choose between helping those with HIV and preventing new infections," said Jeffrey Levi, director of government affairs at the AIDS Action Council in Washington. "We shouldn't be making that choice."
Near-bankrupt state and city governments are in no shape to expand AIDS programs to keep up with the soaring needs. At the same time the White House, under pressure from conservatives, has killed two planned surveys of sexual behavior that would help tactical planning against the disease.
America's AIDS epidemic has entered what scientists call the "mature" phase, an agonizing long-term presence with a slowly shifting profile. The virus is no longer spreading explosively among gay men and drug users as it did in the late 1970's and early 1980's, infecting huge numbers before most realized what was happening. Largely because of that early sweep, Federal experts believe, perhaps one million living Americans carry HIV, an awesome personal and social tragedy that will play itself out over two decades or more. So far, 200,000 people have developed outright AIDS, according to the current definition of the disease, and more than 125,000 of them have died.
Now, perhaps 50,000 more people become infected with the virus each year, according to very rough estimates by the Centers for Disease Control. To describe who these people are is to describe the prevention challenge. Compared with the population as a whole, "the newly infected are much more likely to be people of color, much more likely to be residents of inner cities, much more likely to be economically disadvantaged," said Dr. James Allen, director of the National Aids Program at the Public Health Service.
They include teen-age boys discovering their homosexuality, not believing that even a single unprotected encounter may hold deadly risk. They include new recruits to the underworld of intravenous drug addicts, too desperate or self-destructive to faithfully use sterile needles. They include female crack addicts who trade their bodies for drugs. Increasingly they include homeless men and women, who may shoot drugs, prostitute themselves or both.
To a very minor degree they include men who, as Johnson says he did, receive the virus from one of a multitude of heterosexual partners. Far more they include women, mainly black or Hispanic, who are infected sexually by a husband, boyfriend or casual sex partner; women who, even when they suspect the danger, are often powerless to persuade their men to use condoms. And they include babies: some 1,500 to 2,000 born with the virus each year.
Fighting heterosexual spread, even knowing how to talk about it credibly, has posed special problems. Early on, some experts dismissed the risk as negligible. As more women came down with AIDS who were sex partners of drug addicts but insisted that they had never used needles themselves, and as evidence poured in from Africa, the threat began to seem less remote. On the other side, some who were out to gain attention and funds exaggerated the risk, evoking the improbable specter of a runaway national plague.
Actually, the Federal scientists who chart the epidemic have been quite consistent in their statements. AIDS is a sexually transmitted disease, they have long said, and heterosexual intercourse with an infected partner carries some risk, however small. The chance of transmission is vastly lower in vaginal than anal intercourse, studies have shown, and the virus passes much more easily from man to woman than the other way. Transmission is eased by the presence of venereal diseases such as syphilis.
In Sports Illustrated last week, Johnson denied rumors of homosexuality and said, "I am certain that I was infected by having unprotected sex with a woman who has the virus."
 
'No Wilt Chamberlain'
 "His announcement was a carefully staged event," observed Dr. Andrew Moss, an epidemiologist at the University of California at San Francisco. "I hope it's all true. People want to buy into his story, as President Bush already did. He can be so useful for those trying to deal with young black men and women."
One can only guess whether Johnson would have received the Presidential invitation, whether his commercial ties would have been reaffirmed, had he said that he used drugs or was a homosexual. Stars like him seem if anything to be venerated for their heterosexual exploits. Wilt Chamberlain hyped his recent autobiography with a ludicrous claim that he had slept with 20,000 women. Even discounting by a factor of 10, that would be tempting the normally slight chance of getting HIV. "I'm no Wilt Chamberlain," Johnson said, but "I was never at a loss for female companionship." There has been little public comment about the presumably innumerable women Johnson unknowingly placed in jeopardy.
An end to moralistic condemnations of people with HIV is vital to an attack on the epidemic. Still, the question remains: Will the adulation of Johnson, promiscuity and all, produce equal sympathy for the urban poor at risk of AIDS -- enough to overcome the stereotypes of promiscuity and recklessness that so often provide an excuse for not spending more tax dollars?
Voluntary testing for HIV is a cornerstone of prevention strategies, and Johnson has already encouraged those who have reason to worry to seek the test. The theory is that the sooner people learn of their infection, the sooner they can obtain helpful medical care. They also, experts believe, will be less likely to pass the virus to others. Even for the lucky ones who test negative, the agony of waiting for results may teach a chilling lesson.
But it is one thing to be tested if you have access to care, another if, like so many prospective AIDS victims, you are poor and uninsured. "The only thing society can offer in return for getting tested is good medical care," Dr. Moss said. "There's a kind of contract. We ask these people to get tested, to bring in their sex partners and to behave safely. And in return they should get anonymity and good care."
For many who are likely to spread HIV in the years ahead, society cannot keep its end of the bargain. All too often, poor people who test positive get a session of counseling and a list of phone numbers of overburdened public clinics. Many never get the expensive immune tests and drugs that can prolong their lives. In New York City clinics, "there can be a one- to four-month waiting list just for an initial appointment," said Ronald Johnson of the minority task force. "Then it takes all day at the clinic, so if you have a job you have to take the day off."
Many poor people with HIV infections do not qualify for Medicaid, the Federal-state insurance program, until -- in a horrible catch-22 -- they are declared "disabled" because they develop outright AIDS. Hence they may miss the irretrievable chance to stave off disease as long as possible.
"Without the proper followup services, testing becomes a hoax," Ronald Johnson said. "We are losing ground. The number of cases is growing faster than the funding."
 
 
 
THE LONG ROAD FROM HIV TO AIDS
 Who has AIDS? The definition has become a political as well as a medical question as people infected with the human immune deficiency virus, HIV, compete for treatment. For years, people weren't considered to have AIDS until they showed symptoms of certain infections and cancers that invade the body once the immune system breaks down. But after complaints that many ailing people were being excluded from the count, the Federal Center for Disease Control has begus revising its definition to include every infected person whose number of T4 helper cells, an important measure of immune-system strengh, has faller below 200 per cubic millimeter of blood; the normal; level is around 1,000. It has been estimated that the broader definition, which is expected to go into effect next year, will add 160,000 people to the current caseload of 200,000 classified as having AIDS.
AZT, DDI and other drugsmay prolong the lives of some of these patients. In the absence of treatment the path from HIV infection to AIDS commonly takes about 10 years, with death often following two years later. Though timing and other details vary widely, the following pattern is typical
 
Early stage: T4-cell count=1,000
5 Years
 
The HIV virus enters the bloodstream but antibodies cannot be detected for six weeks or in unusual cases a year or more. Even after testing positive, many people show no symptoms, though some briefly develop a disorder similar to mononucleosis with fatigue, fever, swollen glands and possibly a rash. These initial symptoms disappear, usually in a few weeks. As the virus quietly multiplies, most people continue to feel fine, though some have chronically swollen lymph nodes.
 
Middle stage: T4 cell count=500
5 Years
 
Though many people still have no symptoms, the number of T4 cells drops to about half the normal level. Treatment with AZT, DDI and other anti-viral drugs is recommended. As the infection progresses, skin tests show that another line of immunological defenses, called cell-mediated immunity, is also disintigrating.
 
Last stage: T4 cell count=200
2 Years
 
As the number of T4 cells is halved again, many people initially remain asymptomatic. But the risk that bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites will take advantage of weakened immunity increases dramatically. to prevent one of the most common opportunistic infections, pneumocystis Carinii pneumonia, antibiotic treatment can begin. Early in this stage, some people suffer weight loss, diarrhea, lethargy and fevers. Also common are infections of the skin and mucous membranes, including a fungal infection called thrush, in which white spots and ulcers appear on the tongue and mouth, and chronic herpes simplex.
As the immune system collapse continues, the opportunistic diseases move deeper. The brain might be attacked by a parasitic infection called toxoplasmosis; the nervous system, liver, bones and skin by the cryptococcus fungus. Cytomegaloviris can cause pneumonia, encephalitis and blindness. The list goes on and on.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Who has AIDS" shows racial bereakdows of those who have AIDS in the U.S.. (Source: Center for Disease Control); "Spending on prevention has leveled off" shows Federal budget for HIV information, education and prevention from 1983 to 1992. (Sources: Subcommitte on Health and the Environment, U.S. House of Representatives)(pg. 3)
 
Drawing (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (75%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

COMPANY: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (75%); PARIS, FRANCE (50%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC AIDS & HIV (97%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); VIRUSES (90%); SEX EDUCATION (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (86%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); CITY LIFE (62%); BUDGETS (61%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); BUDGET CUTS (60%); ATHLETES (50%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; JOHNSON, MAGIC GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



602 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: THE REGION;
More Than Just Another Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
FOR fully a year now, maybe more, the New York region has been gripped by a crisis of unparalleled proportions. This one is no mere municipal or state fiscal crisis. It goes beyond yet another crisis of confidence in government. Instead, New Yorkers are frozen in the most numbing crisis of all: a crisis crisis.
The $7 billion deficit facing New York City over the next four years and the projected $3 billion gap in New York State's budget this year and next represent the latest chapters in what has emerged as a perpetual crisis. And because it has been so enduring, it has become routinized -- and so, arguably, has government's response. Despite the magnitude of the deficits and their potential to disrupt and to refashion the delivery of services, no climate of crisis prevails. 
 "Each succeeding crisis raises the threshold of what shocks New Yorkers," said Henry J. Stern, president of Citizens Union, a civic watchdog group, who often ratchets up the shock value of his oratory to get quoted. "Gaps would appear and then disappear, triumphantly closed. Now there appears to be a yawning gap. Crises must go into nine figures before they become a crisis."
Ten, actually. Maybe more.
Government's response seems to defy the very definition of crisis: a pivotal turning point with potentially profound consequences. The fiscal crisis has become a customary part of everyday life, creating what Mr. Stern calls the "Beirut Syndrome." Just as the daily shelling became a way of life for those living in Lebanon's capital, New Yorkers are bombarded with threats of thousands of layoffs that are somehow averted, doomsday warnings that zoos and swimming pools will have to be closed though they are spared at the last minute and apologies for lowering expectations about shrinking services that cost more.
Fiscal crises aren't new, but they used to be called panics or collapses or crashes -- names that connote immediacy and finality. Delivering his first State of the City speech in 1969, Mayor John V. Lindsay warned presciently of a grave fiscal crisis -- a phrase that gained greater currency and was invoked with greater accuracy six years later when bankers revoked the city's credit.
New York City's inability to borrow precipitated a cash crisis, which caused the city to miss payments on short-term notes -- a default that was euphemistically called a deferral. If annual but unredeemed warnings of impending doom had inured New Yorkers to the possibility that a real fiscal crisis would actually materialize in 1975, this one conformed to the definition. It marked a turning point and the consequences were severe: among them, thousands of layoffs of municipal employees, a subway fare increase, the imposition of tuition at the City University of New York and the loss of home rule to a state-imposed overseer.
Another legacy was that "the fiscal crisis" entered New York's political lexicon, a phrase that usually needed no date, just as "post-war" unambiguously referred for years to the period after World War II. Since then, though, it has become hackneyed. This year the term appeared in articles about the New York region in The New York Times an average of nearly every day. Since the stock market crash in 1987 and the ensuing recession, declining revenues have plunged New York -- and a growing number of other jurisdictions -- into a prolonged period of retrenchment that has reached crisis proportions, but without the defining moments that marked the fiscal crisis of 1975.
Moreover, official signals were sometimes conflicting. The debate in Albany seemed, at times, to suggest that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was being too pessimistic (as it turned out, he wasn't) while the Legislature was often rose-coloring its own economic forecasts. At City Hall, public perception was clouded by the Dinkins administration's sometimes confusing record and oratory. Mayor David N. Dinkins postponed police hiring as one of his first official acts last year, then announced an ambitious police hiring plan to which he has largely remained wedded, despite the city's deteriorating fiscal condition. His announcement of the plan was sandwiched in the same week between two seemingly contradictory events: a generous contract settlement with the teachers union and the threat that thousands of employees would be laid off to bridge a worsening deficit.
Last year, Felix G. Rohatyn, chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was created in 1975 to borrow on the city's behalf, contrasted the 1975 fiscal crisis with the latest "budget crisis." He lamented, though, that no single event had elevated the current problems to the critical point at which all of the players are driven to the bargaining table. City Hall suggested last week that Mr. Rohatyn's threat to withhold from the city budget a billion dollars that might be generated by a M.A.C. bond-refinancing represented an effort to create such a crisis in order to infuse relatively complacent perceptions with grim realities.
"We don't have a crisis," Mr. Rohatyn said last week. "What we have is a situation that is worse than anything I've seen in years."
Whatever it is called, what New York and other governments really have is the latest manifestation of the recurring clash between competing goals that Martin Shefter outlined in "Political Crisis/Fiscal Crisis: The Collapse and Revival of New York City": between getting elected and preserving civil harmony on the one hand, and nurturing the local economy and maintaining the city's ability to pay its bills, on the other. Before those agendas can be reconciled, the various goal-tenders have to get past the current identity crisis and find a turning point at which they abandon business as usual.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); LEBANON (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS UNION BANCORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (99%); LEBANON (79%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); TUITION FEES (62%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



603 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Congress Does Something, But Mostly Just Stands There

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
IT may be the national polls, or the Pennsylvania election, or it may just be that hope for adjournment concentrates the Congressional mind, but all at once Congress is dealing with domestic issues, from taxes to health care to the recession.
It is not necessarily solving them, and not always even passing bills to try to solve them. In an era of persistent divided government, continually soaring Federal deficits and a fear of taxes that conquers all, real legislative solutions seem all but out of reach. 
 Consider what was voted on last week. A banking bill that would have allowed some interstate banking was defeated in the House when a coalition of Democrats who thought it either gave the banks too much or gave them too little combined to sink it. A few spending bills were acted on. The House did pass a bill requiring employers to grant employees unpaid leaves of absence for family emergencies, but by a margin clearly too weak to override President Bush's threatened veto.
The family leave bill, which the Bush Administration contends would unfairly burden business, falls into the same category as the various Democratic tax cut proposals -- a political statement for 1992, intended to sharpen the definition of their party as the one concerned with middle-class Americans while Republicans worry only about foreigners or the rich.
Only when it came to the recession did Congress clearly overcome those influences that seem to compel inaction or ineffectiveness. After four months of arguing, and a bitter two days of Senate debate focusing on why one state got less than another, Congress sent to a suddenly willing President Bush a bill to provide extended unemployment benefits for about 3 million people out of work at least half a year.
Nor is there likely to be a great deal of last-minute voting on major bills in the 10 days before Thanksgiving. The House may vote on campaign finance, and the two bodies are likely to refill the nearly empty coffers of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which insures bank deposits, and the Resolution Trust Corporation, which is overseeing the savings and loan bailout.
 
The President's Demands
 Of Mr. Bush's two main demands, a highway bill and a crime bill, the first one would create jobs and is therefore likely to be approved by a House-Senate conference commitee. The crime bill, whose driving force has always been politics, is more likely to be left behind as, for obscure reasons, Senate Republicans have kept it from even being considered by a conference committee.
And little more would pass if Congress worked on into December. The general snarling temper of the place was apparent last week even on a bill so generally regarded as critical as the unemployment measure. Senators snapped at each other, made unusual accusations of greed and bad faith. The Senate's No. 2 Democratic whip, Wendell H. Ford of Kentucky, embarrassed his leader, George J. Mitchell of Maine, by blocking his request for a unanimous vote to take up the unemployment bill and move fast on it. A long winter's nap might improve the prospects for good will that a broad banking bill or energy bill would require for passage.
There are several reasons for the limited level of accomplishment, but the biggest and most basic of them are politics and divided government. First of all, after 11 years of Republican Presidencies and Democratic Congresses, the list of problems which both sides agree are serious and worth compromising on has been whittled down quite a bit. Clean air was done last year. Civil rights this year, and unemployment made it, after a long delay. But the big problems the Democrats see are rarely the same as the ones Republicans seize on.
One obvious target for both parties is health care and its costs. Congressional Democrats have lots of plans but no consensus, and Senate Republicans have a plan, too. But without a push from the President, nothing major is likely to happen, and his political handlers have been advising Mr. Bush to hang back until after he is re-elected and not make enemies over this issue.
Even if he ultimately rejects that advice and settles on a proposal, it will be much harder to make it into a law than it used to be. Indeed, solving almost any big problem is tougher these days. For there are two ways the Government tries to solve most problems -- by passing laws regulating private conduct, often involving employer-worker relations, or by spending money.
This year's civil rights bill, making it easier to sue in cases of alleged job discrimination, was a prime example of the first sort. Passage of the bill, the major legislative accomplishment of this session, involved extraordinary effort by Senator John C. Danforth, Republican of Missouri, who argued it was bad for the country and for his party to use race as a political weapon.
But the Administration rarely supports bills that tell business what to do, whether it is to provide family leaves or not to hire striker replacements. Moreover, Republicans are not alone in their disinclination to increase Government control of private conduct. Democrats may complain that in Republican hands existing regulations are not enforced, but they have become much less eager to propose new areas of control.
Attempting to solve problems by spending money is even harder. Last year's budget agreement has meant there is just about no money at all for new programs. No one wants to cut old ones, and no one wants to vote for new taxes to pay for new ones, no matter their political worthiness. The House has even refused to debate a $5.60 per worker per year tax on employers to pay extended unemployment benefits, or a 32 cent a month tax on electric bills to encourage use of wind and solar power.
The budget agreement, of course, allowed Congress to raise taxes if it wanted to buy something new. But what the budget act gave, political fear of television commercials labeling an incumbent as an advocate of taxes has effectively taken away.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (86%); TAX LAW (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); BAD FAITH (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); FAMILY (77%); INSURANCE LAW (76%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (71%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); FAMILY LEAVE (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); INSURANCE (61%); APPROVALS (61%); THANKSGIVING (50%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM GEORGE W BUSH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



604 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: VOTER POLL SHOWS BIG EDWARDS LEAD IN LOUISIANA RACE

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Voters surveyed as they left polling places in Louisiana said today that they had chosen former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards as their next governor over David Duke by almost two to one.
The actual margin for Mr. Edwards, a Democrat, could be narrower because supporters of Mr. Duke, a former leader of the Ku Klux Klan running as a Republican, have consistently been reluctant to state their preferences to poll takers. 
 The Secretary of State's office reported this afternoon that there had been a heavy turnout of voters, and the survey suggested an unprecedented turnout by black voters was largely responsible.
 
Campaign of Stark Choices
 Voter Research and Surveys, which conducted the surveys, projected Mr. Edwards the winner shortly after the polls closed at 8 P.M.
The election reflected the stark choices of a campaign that has divided this state as few other political contests have done anywhere in recent history.
On the one hand was Mr. Edwards, who served three terms as governor but was discredited in the last by corruption scandals. On the other was Mr. Duke, who could not be forgiven by many voters for his past as a racist and neo-Nazi.
Black voters questioned in the survey today almost unanimously said they had voted for Mr. Edwards. A sizable number of white voters in the New Orleans area also said they preferred Mr. Edwards. That city was the focus of a huge advertising campaign by Mr. Edwards and his supporters predicting that the city's tourism and convention business would collapse if Mr. Duke was elected.
The survey found that white voters statewide split evenly between the two candidates. Mr. Duke ran strongest in Northern Louisiana. Republican voters also split evenly between the two candidates, while voters who had supported the current Governor, Buddy Roemer, in last month's primary divided three-to-one for Mr. Edwards.
 
National Issues Surface
 Voter Research and Surveys is an organization created last year to conduct exit polls on behalf of ABC News, CBS News, CNN and NBC News. The New York Times subscribed to today's poll. In it, voters were asked to fill out written questionnaires as they were leaving 30 randomly selected polling places around the state.
On the eve of a Presidential election year, the campaign has confirmed that the nation's political agenda is dominated by the voters' frustration with the economic slowdown, and the volatile emotions of racial resentment. Moreover, Mr. Duke emerged from weeks of intense news media coverage as a national political figure.
The survey of voters indicated that Mr. Duke might receive a smaller proportion of the vote in this election than the 44 percent he took in an unsuccessful bid last year to unseat United States Senator J. Bennett Johnston, a Democrat.
Given a choice of nine issues that most influenced their choice, survey respondents who said they voted for Mr. Duke most frequently cited "reforming the welfare system," while Edwards voters named the "state's economy and unemployment."
The two candidates won the right to compete in today's runoff election when they took the top two spots in an nonpartisan primary on Oct. 19. Mr. Roemer came in third in Louisiana's unusual primary, which put all candidates on the same ballot regardless of party affiliation. Under the state's election system, if neither of the top two vote-getters in the primary receives more than 50 percent of the vote, they compete in a runoff election.
Political battles in Louisiana are traditionally waged by force of personality rather than through political party organizations. This election was a duel between an old lion and a young insurgent. And their differences in style, generation and ideology produced a vote today that was sharply polarized by race and geography.
Mr. Edwards, 64 years old, served three terms as governor between 1971 and 1987. He was introduced by the moderator at one candidates' forum as "the Queen Victoria of Louisiana politics" because he has been such a domineering figure for so long.
 
Two Transformations
 The 41-year-old Mr. Duke, who was grand wizard of the Knights of the Ku Klux Klan from 1975 to 1980, did not seize the political spotlight until 1989, when he was elected State Representative from the New Orleans suburb of Metairie.
For both candidates it was a campaign of transformations as they tried to shed the burdensome aspects of their pasts.
Mr. Duke cited a religious conversion to explain that he was now more tolerant, but the voters were constantly reminded of Mr. Duke's 20 years of overtly racist and neo-Nazi activities by news reports and the Edwards camp.
Mr. Edwards, who was twice tried but never convicted on Federal corruption charges in his last term in office, also declared himself a changed man. But Mr. Duke took every opportunity to recall the scandals and the former Governor's reputation as a flamboyant scoundrel.
The sincerity of Mr. Duke's assertion of a religious conversion became an issue in the last week of the race as leaders of the conservative Christian movement, a crucial Duke constituency, questioned his veracity and a top aide quit his campaign, saying he questioned Mr. Duke's beliefs.
In the end there was only one real issue in the campaign and that was Mr. Duke himself. Pre-election public opinion surveys confirmed what was evident on the campaign trail: The state was divided between those who loved him and those who hated him.
This overwhelming dynamic turned the Edwards campaign into an effort not so much to elect a candidate as to defeat an enemy.
At Mr. Edwards's last major rally, on Thursday night in New Orleans, one speaker after another took to the microphone to denounce Mr. Duke until it seemed that Mr. Edwards's candidacy was being mentioned only as an afterthought. And when the candidate himself took the microphone, he was greeted not by cheering but by chants of "no more Dukes."
By default Mr. Edwards became the beneficiary of a coalition drawn solely by its abhorrence of Mr. Duke. It included Democrats and Republicans, business and labor groups, environmentalists, civic groups and women's organizations.
"Because of the nature of my opposition," Mr. Edwards said at a rally this week, "I've been able to put together a coalition never before assembled of my supporters and people who have never supported me before. I realize this is a unique opportunity and I am not going to pass on it."
 
Few Duke Endorsements
 Mr. Duke received no endorsements from any major newspapers nor from any of his colleagues in the Legislature nor from any significant political figures or citizens' groups. And he wore this as a badge of honor.
Drawing ardent crowds to rallies across the state Mr. Duke presented himself as the avenging agent of change who would right the wrongs carried out against his white working- and middle-class constituents.
He promised to battle "the liberals" and "the special interests" who, he said, have raised taxes and presided over corrupt, inefficient government.
Poor blacks were Mr. Duke's scapegoats. Changes in welfare, like incentives to get mothers to use birth control, he said, would solve problems ranging from high crime rates to the high cost of medical care.
Yet Mr. Duke also echoed mainstream Republicans when he argued that social welfare programs were a costly failure and that affirmative-action policies discriminated against whites.
This campaign was unusual for the amount and the ferocity of the negative advertising that was aimed at a single candidate.
Aside from the Edwards campaign itself, the Democratic Party, several independent groups and even individual citizens produced volleys of 30-second commercials opposing Mr. Duke.
 
 
HOW THE SURVEY WAS CONDUCTED

The poll is based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout Louisiana on Saturday.
The poll was conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, an organization created in 1990 by ABC News, CBS News, CNN, and NBC News.
The results are based on 1,675 voters in 30 randomly selected precincts statewide.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from a poll like this, when based on the entire sample, should differ by no more than three percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all those who voted in Louisiana on Election Day.
Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edwin W. Edwards, Louisiana gubernatorial candidate, signaling his confidence on election day. (Reuters) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (96%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); SCANDALS (67%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); CORRUPTION (52%); TOURISM (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR); EDWARDS, EDWIN W; SURO, ROBERTO DAVID DUKE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



605 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-22
 
EVIDENCE IN JESUITS' DEATHS
An inquiry by a panel of House Democrats found strong evidence suggesting that senior Salvadoran Army officers -- including the current defense minister -- plotted the 1989 killings of six Jesuit priests, an internal report says. Page 1
 
BEIJING FRUSTRATES BAKER
A senior American official said that talks in Beijing between Secretary of State James Baker and China's top leaders yielded none of the gestures on human rights, arms control and trade sought by Washington. 1
 
APATHY ON A SOVIET FARM
After seven decades of Communism, a Russian village and its collective farm are impoverished and demoralized. Changes concocted as reforms have never brought anything but grief, the people say. 1
A corner of Russia has had a potent effect on all who have visited. 20
 
GOURMANDS GET LAST LAUGH
A study suggests that goose fat may be good for you: The foie gras eaters of Gascony, a region of southwestern France, have the country's lowest rate of cardiovascular disease. 1
 
A VOICE FOR PALESTINIANS
A sharp thinker with dagger-like powers of expression, Hanan Ashrawi has emerged as the symbol of a new Palestinian pragmatism. Now the Israeli police want to put the spokeswoman on trial. 3
 
KENYA BREAKS UP PROTEST
Armed riot police in Nairobi fired tear gas and used batons to disperse several thousand demonstrators who were trying to attend an opposition rally banned by the Government of President Daniel arap Moi. 6
 
Lithuania's President promises to investigate Nazi collaboration. 21
 
National 23-33
 
VOTERS PREFER EDWARDS
Edwin W. Edwards, who served three terms as governor of Louisiana, was elected to a fourth term today by a landslide, defeating David Duke, a former grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. 1
 
THE BURDEN GETS BIGGER
A decade after property-tax revolts in a dozen states and the across-the- board tax cuts of the Reagan era, the percentage of income that Americans pay in taxes is back to a postwar peak. And economists and budget analysts maintain that the tax-cut fever now sweeping the land will be dissipated by the immovable realities of government finance. 1
 
UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Last year Congress passed legislation intended to assure a quick response to oil spills. Did that end matters? Hardly. Now it is up to the Coast Guard to define exactly what Congress meant. That in turn means dozens of regulations, a task that is already behind schedule. 26
Advisory panel criticized the Energy Department's cleanup efforts. 25
 
WARM WELCOME FOR PROF. HILL
In her most extensive public comments since her Senate testimony against Judge Clarence Thomas riveted the nation, Prof. Anita F. Hill told a cheering, exultant crowd of female state legislators from around the nation that sexual harassment was a form of violence that "will not go away." 28
 
WE WERE JUST PASSING BY
Manchester Journal: Few people occupy a lower rung on the ladder of national politics than Representative Dick Swett. But Mr. Swett happens to be from New Hampshire. So when he invited the Democratic Presidential candidates to his fund-raiser, five of them showed up. And hardly anybody was surprised. 26
 
REFUSE OF AN AGRICULTURAL AGE
What if most of New England's stone walls were never meant as walls at all? What if they are merely "linear landfills," in the words of a University of Connecticut geologist, long piles of refuse that are a result of the first manmade upheaval in America's environment, the deforestation of New England in the 18th and early 19th centuries? 26
 
A stringy vine is besieging many Southern lakes. 28
 
Regional 34-47
 
ADDICTS ARE SHUNNING NEEDLES
Finally responding to the terror of AIDS, thousands of heroin addicts are turning away from injecting the drug and have begun inhaling the crystalline powder the way many people take cocaine. 1
 
AN END TO LABOR LOGJAM?
The Dinkins administration was encouraged that the new police contract might strengthen its hand in negotiating concessions from other municipal unions. Labor leaders said it was too early to tell. 38
 
Fourth police officer shot in four days in New York City. 37
 
Jurors will not hear video evidence against Watkins suspect. 35
 
A 13TH TUBERCULOSIS DEATH
Another state prison inmate suffering from a new strain of drug-resistant tuberculosis died in Syracuse. Correction officials said the new strain of the disease was responsible for all the deaths.39
 
Obituaries 44
 
George C. P. Olsson, led Ocean Spray Cranberries
 
Arts/Reviews 65
 
Campus Life 51-55
 
Life Style 56
 
Fashion 58-59
 
Pastimes 66-67
 
Weddings 60-64
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: A ringing call to arms in the workplace. Page 28. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LITHUANIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); EL SALVADOR (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); LITHUANIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); NAIROBI, KENYA (75%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); TAX LAW (85%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); ARMIES (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); RIOTS (71%); BUDGETS (67%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (63%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); OIL SPILLS (60%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (52%); 

PERSON: CLARENCE THOMAS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



606 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1656 words

HEADLINE: Can Foie Gras Aid the Heart? A French Scientist Says Yes

BYLINE: By MOLLY O'NEILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: AUCH, France

 BODY:
Here in the land of the Three Musketeers, the Gascony region of southwest France, goose and duck fat are slathered on bread instead of butter, the people snack on fried duck skin and eat twice as much foie gras as other Frenchmen, and 50 times as much as Americans.
It was no surprise when Dr. Serge Renaud, in a 10-year epidemiological study that included surveys of eating habits, concluded that Gascons eat a diet higher in saturated fat than any other group of people in the industrialized world. Dr. Renaud is the director of research at the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, a Government center in Lyons. 
 But scientists crinkled a collective brow over Dr. Renaud's related finding about this region, which produces much of the world's foie gras, the fattened livers of ducks and geese. "The foie gras eaters of the Gers and Lot Departments in southwest France have the lowest rate of death from cardiovascular disease in the country," he said. Foie gras is the fattened livers of ducks and geese.
 
U.S. Participation Sought
 According to the World Health Organization's Multinational Monitoring of Trends and Determinants in cardiovascular disease, or Monica, which is currently studying eating habits and mortality rates in Toulouse and a surrounding area that includes much of Gascony, the difference is remarkable. Out of 100,000 middle-aged French men, approximately 145 die of heart attacks annually, but in Toulouse the number is about 80. In the United States, 315 of every 100,000 middle-aged men die of heart attacks each year.
In a paper presented to a convention of duck and goose producers in France last spring, Dr. Renaud suggested that goose and duck fat may improve cardiovascular health. Only clinical studies can determine the benefits of the fat from web-footed birds, but chemists agree with Dr. Renaud, who said in a recent telephone interview, "Goose and duck fat is closer in chemical composition to olive oil than it is to butter or lard."
Dr. Renaud has teamed up with Dr. Curtis Ellison, chief of preventive medicine and epidemiology at the Boston University School of Medicine, to request a $3 million grant from the United States National Institutes of Health for a five-year continuation of Dr. Renaud's work.
"The changes in the American diet in the past 10 years are laudable," said Dr. Ellison. "But we are still dying faster and of more heart attacks than the French, and I want to know why." While taking into account the role of genetics and life style, his study will focus on the role of consumption of wine, dairy fats, vegetables, fruits, and goose and duck fat.
To the American heart specialists whose research has brought lean-beef and the low-fat diet, the very thought of a beneficial dietary fat is anathema.
"Heart attacks are less frequent in France, but they are still the leading cause of death there," said Dr. Dean Ornish, a heart specialist at the University of California in San Francisco. For several decades, the low rate of heart disease in France has stumped scientists. Last summer an article in In Health magazine dubbed the mystery "Le Paradoxe Francais."
Dr. Ornish doubts that duck fat is a significant player in the paradox. "We know that fats and cholesterol are not the whole story of heart disease," he said. "But a single epidemiological study could overlook the things like positive social support systems or low stress that could even offset harmful dietary choices like pate or foie gras."
Dr. Renaud acknowledges that many factors need to be considered, but he said, "It is obvious that this fat doesn't increase cholesterol dramatically and, my goodness, it is even possible this fat may provide some kind of protection."
 
Foie Gras as Health Food
 For the farmers and exporters of Gers, the department that includes the heart of Gascony, Dr. Renaud's research may be manna from heaven -- or sauteed foie gras on toasted brioche.
"If we can label foie gras health food, ah, the world is then ours," said Jean Michel Justumus, director of the Regional Center for Agricultural and Technological Innovation in Auch, the capital of Gers. The center studies the technology of foie gras growing and processing.
Eighty percent of the foie gras in the world is produced in France, primarily in Gers, which has the highest proportion of people making a living from agriculture in France, Mr. Justumus said; half of them produce foie gras.
Like contemporary d'Artagnans, they fiercely defend their agricultural economy against foreign competition, animal-rights advocates and, the biggest foe of all, health concerns.
Wearing a white lab coat and sitting at his desk, Mr. Justumus looked every bit the cool pragmatist, shepherding a traditional industry into the 21st century. But like a man who knows no fear when he duels for the honor of his country, he waved aside the suggestion that the liver's fat content might help explain why it is generally savored in small amounts. (A tablespoon of foie gras has 60 calories and is 87 percent fat, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.) Fear of foie gras, he said, is a "longstanding prejudice."
"When something tastes very good, people think it must be very bad," Mr. Justumus said. "Even the French think this. And Americans. . . ." His voice trailed off, then rallied. "But a label that says, 'Eat foie gras, live longer'; what a marketing tool!"
The Gascon farmers are facing the threat of fattened livers from Eastern Europe. Last month a French television news program carried a report of a shipment of Eastern European foie gras that was hijacked in southwest France where it was to be processed. "Other countries can raise the ducks and geese cheaper," said Yves Saint-Pe, who fattens geese and ducks on his farm outside Auch.
Gascon farmers have also jabbed back at animal-rights advocates who contend that force-feeding ducks and geese to fatten their livers is cruel. Gesturing to the blue skies above her farm near Auch, Lucette Baron, who raises about 400 ducks and 150 geese a year, defended the practice. She said that before wild ducks and geese migrate, they stuff themselves, engorging their livers with fat to provide energy for the flight.
Mrs. Baron sees herself as the keeper of a holy tradition. "The Romans did this," she said. Walking into the barn to feed her flock, she was puzzled by the charge of cruelty. "My ducks don't run away from me," she said.
Mrs. Baron is the rare farmer's wife who keeps a small flock and, in the final three weeks of fattening, uses the traditional hose-necked funnel to pour corn directly into the birds' stomachs. Today, a typical foie gras producer raises 20,000 birds a year, favors ducks over geese (ducks fatten faster) and has an automatic feeding system. The 12,000 producers in Gers make more than a ton of foie gras a year, which can retail for as much as $25 an ounce.
And they think that in the work of Dr. Renaud they may have found the ultimate sword to defend their industry in a diet-conscious world.
"Eat Foie Gras for Health!" said Mr. Justumus jubilantly. In his office he is trying out slogans. "Even 10 years ago, you would have been laughed out of France for saying such a thing, but no one is laughing now."
In fact, scientists are following Dr. Renaud's research and the Monica study with interest. "Duck and goose fat contains saturated fat, but it may also contain a fatty acid that has a positive affect on blood platelets," said Dr. Ellison of Boston University.
Dr. Ornish is skeptical. "What people don't realize is that even if part of a fat has a beneficial mechanism, it cannot counterbalance the overall effect of fat in the diet," he said.
Dr. Adam Drewnowski, director of the human nutrition program at the University of Michigan, finds the study worthwhile. "Who knows?" he said. "First we had the Mediterranean diet. Maybe next we'll get the Southwest of France diet."
The basic Gascon in his blue beret would not be surprised. Standing in his barnyard Mr. Saint-Pe listened to Dr. Renaud's findings as though he were being told the obvious. "The people in my family live to be 90 years old," he said. "We cook everything in duck fat. We have foie gras on Sunday. Everybody knows this is the long-life diet."
Other locals were equally surprised that such common knowledge could be a marketing tool. "Scientists say we should be dead by 40 because we eat duck and liver and salt and wine," said Bernard Verduzan, 87, as he laid out his fattened livers at the foie gras market in Eauze in southwest France recently. "And then they say it is big news when they read the obituaries in the newspaper and see how long we live." Straightening his shoulders and puffing out his chest, he said, "I am still young."
Robert Jacquerez, 95, who dines daily at the Hotel de France in Auch, contends that the key is balance. "Always have a salad with your cassoulet, bread with your foie gras," he said. "Always drink as much mineral water as wine." His eyes dropped to the menu of the hotel, where Andre Daguin, the chef and owner, is renowned for creating entire meals of foie gras and has earned two Michelin stars for his rich regional fare.
Instead of describing the various preparations, the menu simply states, "The fat of birds may be good for health."
"I've written this finding as a conditional, pending further research," said Mr. Daguin grudgingly. Dr. Renaud's studies will not begin until spring, and waiting for science to corroborate the obvious frustrates this eighth-generation Gascon cook.
It also frustrates Mr. Justumus, who grew up in Gers, eats foie gras once a week and said that members of his family live into their 90's. Looking out his laboratory window toward the rolling, open farmland that the foie gras industry has preserved he said, "Too bad we won't have the follow-up study for this Christmas season."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foie gras, the fattened livers of ducks and geese, may improve cardiovascular health, according to a paper presented to a convention of duck and goose producers. Lucette Baron in Auch, France, with birds whose fat is closer in chemical composition to olive oil than it is to butter or lard. (Guillaume Betbeder for The New York Times) (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOULOUSE, FRANCE (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LYON, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAL RESEARCH INTERNATIONAL (57%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; GASCONY (FRANCE) FRANCE (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LYON, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: HEART; RESEARCH; OILS AND FATS; DIET AND NUTRITION OILS & FATS (91%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); NUTRITION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHOLESTEROL (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); TRENDS (76%); CHEMISTRY (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (64%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (63%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%); 

PERSON: RENAUD, SERGE (DR); O'NEILL, MOLLY

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



607 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Interest Is High As U.S. Revises Rule on Tankers

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 15

 BODY:
In a crowded conference room at the Coast Guard's headquarters on Thursday, Lieut. Drew Wojtanik huddled around a table with a group of experts in oil transportation. He was in his shirt sleeves, and up to his elbows in regulatory minutiae.
All day long participants in a workshop, broken into 10 discussion groups like one the lieutenant was leading, had been debating how the Coast Guard should regulate the operation of vessels to insure that they are prepared to respond quickly to catastrophic oil spills, as called for by a new law. 
 "I don't want to get down to the boots and gloves," Lieutenant Wojtanik said in the discussion, "but what other types of larger equipment should be carried on board?"
 
'Appropriate' Response
 The answer will come in the fine print of a new set of environmental regulations required under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, an overhaul of oil tanker safety laws prompted by the Exxon Valdez spill in Alaska in 1989. The law itself calls for vessels to carry "appropriate" equipment using the best technology that is economically feasible, taking safety into account. Now it is up to the Coast Guard to define exactly what Congress meant.
The ships, about 5,000 of them, ranging in size from supertankers to river barges, are supposed to be properly equipped by next August.
If the Coast Guard required substantial equipment aboard each one, it could cost billions of dollars. But judging from comments by industry and government representatives at the workshop last week, that appears unlikely. Most cleanup equipment wouldprobably be stored on shore and governed by a related set of regulations the Coast Guard must write.
And those two sets of rules are just the beginning. At least two dozen sets of regulations must be written in the three years after the law was enacted, and that took place in August 1990.
Already, the Coast Guard has fallen behind schedule in putting out proposals for rules by which oil tanker companies will have to live.
 
Both Sides Are Concerned
 But as inexorably as the tides, if not quite on such a fixed schedule, the regulations are coming. And with each proposal published comes a wave of debate among shipping companies, environmental groups, citizens and governments in areas affected by such shipping, and international insurers.
On several issues, the industry has objected to what it calls overregulation, while environmentalists are pressing for more aggressive action.
Among the issues are how insurance policies should be written to guarantee payment for the costs of cleaning up spills, how quickly tankers should be required to be outfitted with double hulls and other design changes to help prevent catastrophic groundings and how harbors should be equipped to track movements of tankers to prevent collisions.
On the responses of vessels to oil spills, the Coast Guard wants to negotiate a regulation that is acceptable to all parties, avoiding possible litigation. So even before the first draft is written, there have been extensive offerings of comments. The workshop on Thursday was not a formal hearing, but a brainstorming session, Coast Guard officers said, and 195 people showed up.
Most of those commenting advised against putting major cleanup equipment on oil vessels. Oil shipping companies say there is a dearth of equipment that can be used from the decks of a tanker after a spill.
It is not yet clear whether the Coast Guard's rules will go far enough to satisfy environmental groups and state environmental agencies, which have argued for putting at least some cleanup equipment on the tankers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COAST GUARD (USCG) US COAST GUARD (92%); US COAST GUARD (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST GUARD (USCG) US COAST GUARD (92%); US COAST GUARD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ALASKA UNITED STATES (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; TANKERS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; OIL POLLUTION ACT OF 1990; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; EXXON VALDEZ (TANKER) WATER POLLUTION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MARINE TANKERS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); BULK SHIPPING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); INSURANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); TRUCK SAFETY (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); INSURANCE POLICIES (71%); LITIGATION (50%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



608 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Conference Lauds Anita Hill, Exultantly

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Nov. 16

 BODY:
In her most extensive public comments since her Senate testimony against Judge Clarence Thomas riveted the nation, Prof. Anita F. Hill told a cheering, exultant crowd of women here on Friday night that sexual harassment was "a form of violence against women" and "a form of economic coercion" that "will not go away."
Addressing several hundred female state legislators from around the nation, who twirled hundreds of pink napkins and pounded tables for minutes after she entered the room, Professor Hill issued a ringing call to arms against inappropriate sexual behavior in the workplace. 
 She said workplace harassment was a "beast" that was exacerbated when women did not report its occurrence because they feared not being believed by male managers or even by other women.
"We are angry because we have been betrayed," she said, her calm tone a contrast to the severity of her words. "The reality is that this powerful beast is used to reinforce a sense of inequality to keep women in their place, notwithstanding our increasing numbers in the workplace. We are angry because we have so little positive outlet for our anger."
 
No Mention of Thomas
 Not once in her remarks, which she offered during a panel discussion on sexual harassment, did Professor Hill mention by name Clarence Thomas, whose nomination to the Supreme Court was jeopardized by her accusation that he sexually harassed her when she worked for him at the Education Department and later at the Equal Employment Opportunty Commission. Her appearance here fell one month to the day after Judge Thomas was confirmed by the full Senate.
Professor Hill, who teaches law at the University of Oklahoma, received a raucous response from her audience, female lawmakers who met here this week at a bipartisan conference sponsored by the Center on the American Woman in Politics at Rutgers University.
The delegates had been talking about her for days in hearings, forums and fervent hallway discussions. Many began sporting "I Believe Anita Hill" buttons on Friday afternoon. As she rose to speak and thanked the momentarily quieted crowd on Friday night, one woman hollered back, "Thank you!" Minutes later, dozens took up a chant, "We believe Anita!" Some threw flowers.
But not every delegate responded warmly. Grace Davis and Nadine Thomas, lawmakers from Georgia, Justice Thomas's home state, were among the few who did not rise or applaud when Professor Hill spoke.
Asked later what she thought of Professor Hill, Ms. Davis seemed uncomfortable. "You have to weigh what she said," Ms. Davis said. "In any situation, you have a positive and a negative. It's not a question of whether you believe her."
But the Georgia lawmakers were far outnumbered by Hill supporters.
Conference organizers said Professor Hill's travel and lodging expenses had been paid for but like the other panelists, she had not been paid for her appearance.
Fund-raisers, poll takers and political strategists attending the conference said the Thomas-Hill hearings before the Senate Judiciary Committee had provided female candidates a rare opportunity to get voters' attention.
 
'Left With an Image'
 "The country has been left with an image, a picture of a Government that's overwhelmingly male," Ruth Mandel, the director of the Rutgers center. "Women's absence was felt and noticed in a powerful way."
Ms. Mandel said the sexual-harassment discussion here had been added to the conference's agenda after the hearings prompted female legislators to call her, asking if the subject would be addressed.
Indeed, even before Professor Hill's arrival here, that subject had taken center stage.
On Thursday, 29 witnesses appeared at a hearing called by female legislators from California and gave their personal accounts of harassment. One witness, Louette Columbano, a former San Francisco police officer, told the lawmakers that male colleagues had chased her, had forced her to watch a prostitute perform oral sex on a male officer and, when she complained, had taken turns spitting on the windshield of her car.
"This happened in 1984," she said. "I never thought I'd be sitting here telling this story again."
Professor Hill's testimony to the Senate, Ms. Columbano and other witnesses said, made their own complaints seem more credible.
 
Frequent Applause
 At times during Professor Hill's appearance on Friday night, the women in the hotel ballroom seemed exhilarated by her very presence. On several occasions, they appeared unable to stop themselves from laughing and applauding, interrupting her after nearly every sentence. "It was cathartic for all of us," said Pauline Menes, a state legislator from Maryland.
It seemed cathartic for Professor Hill as well. Throughout her remarks and during a brief question-and-answer period afterward, she smiled broadly and thanked the delegates profusely for their support.
Professor Hill was shielded by an unusual show of security, with guards posted at every entrance to the building and to the room in which she appeared.
She told the lawmakers that they should capture their rage "and turn it into positive energy."
"Making the workplace a safer and more productive place for ourselves and our daughters is, and should be, on each of our agendas," she said.
Although cautioning that she is an academician and not a politician, she said she would "continue to educate people about these issues."
The question-and-answer period, in which Professor Hill and the other panelists responded to written questions that they selected from many submitted by the audience, took a light turn when one questioner asked her the correct pronunciation of the word "harassment."
It does not matter how the word is pronounced, Professor Hill responded, adding, "I say once and for all: Let's pronounce it dead."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prof. Anita F. Hill told several hundred state legislators at a conference in San Diego that sexual harrassment "will not go away." With her was Ruth Mandel, left, the director of the Rutgers University's Center on the American Woman in Politics, which sponsored the conference. (Robert Burroughs for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CENTER ON AMERICAN WOMAN IN POLITICS (RUTGERS UNIV); SUPREME COURT (US) RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON AMERICAN WOMAN IN POLITICS (RUTGERS UNIV); SUPREME COURT (US) RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SEXUAL HARASSMENT; WOMEN SEXUAL HARASSMENT (93%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); WOMEN (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); SPONSORSHIP (62%); 

PERSON: IFILL, GWEN; HILL, ANITA F (PROF); THOMAS, CLARENCE (ASSOC JUSTICE) CLARENCE THOMAS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



609 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 38; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1346 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins Gets Boost From Ruling on Police Raises

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Dinkins administration officials, under fire for months for their faltering labor policy, said yesterday that they believe a binding arbitration settlement with the police union has put the Mayor in a better position to demand concessions from other municipal unions.
The three-member arbitration panel ruled on Friday that the cost of any wage increase above what the city has set aside in its budget should come from work-rule concessions from the union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association. Such a tradeoff has become the crux of the city's position in stalled contract talks with other unions. 
 "The panel said we accept the city's position that if you want a wage increase you've got to fund it," James F. Hanley, the city's Labor Relations Commisioner, said yesterday. "This clearly sets a pattern."
But labor leaders reacted cautiously, saying it was too early to tell if the decision by the panel would break the logjams in other negotiations. Without major concessions from the unions, the adminstration has little hope of closing $7 billion in budget shortfalls over the next four years.
The decision reached on Friday grants members of the P.B.A. a retroactive 3.5 percent wage increase over the first 12 months of the 15-month contract and an additional one percent for the remaining three months of the contract, which expired on Oct. 1. Veteran officers will receive raises that will in some cases boost their paychecks by 7.5 percent, but money for those raises was to come from a freeze on wages for newly hired officers, according to the ruling.
 
Message to Unions
 The wage settlement is identical to the pact the city reached with two large non-uniformed unions forthe same period. It sends a strong message to other uniformed services negotiating contracts -- firefighters, corrections officers and sanitiation workers -- that no wage increases are likely without work-rule concessions. Like the police, other uniformed workers have historically won wages higher than civilian workers.
Throughout more than 18 months of negotiations, the police had hoped to match the 5.5 percent wage increase given to the city's teachers' union for the same 15-month period. Mr. Dinkins, who had agreed to the teachers pact because it was partly financed by state aid, insisted that the city could not afford a similar settlement with the police because no state aid was available. The two sides agreed to arbitration in mid-September.
While negotiators on both sides spent much of yesterday poring over numbers to determine the true cost and benefits of the settlement, city labor officials said the ruling helped shore up what some fiscal monitors saw as an unrealistic weak spot in the Mayor's five-year spending plan: Mr. Dinkins's vow to freeze salaries over the next two years except for those unions that agree to changes that make their workers more productive. Aides to the Mayor say the ruling lends credibility to the plan.
"The reality and the perception are that the Mayor stood tall on these very important principles about what the city could afford to pay in last year's settlement," said Deputy Mayor Norman Steisel, who is acting mayor while Mr. Dinkins is traveling in South Africa. "That's just important to all public discussions under way now in virtually every arena about the Mayor and this administration's ability to hit these marks. It goes directly to the question of the credibility of future labor negotiations, the financial plan, and his leadership in general."
 
Talks Still Ahead
 While the decision is likely to set the tone for negotiations with uniformed workers, leaders of other municipal unions said yesterday that they do not believe the ruling had weakened their position in the current round of contract talks.
"If they are going to use this as a leverage against us, they are making a sad mistake, because they have blown many opportunities and suggestions from us," said Stanley Hill, president of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which represents 140,000 city employees.
Barry Feinstein, president of Teamsters Local 237, representing 14,000 city workers, said the ruling "has no impact, no bearing about any settlement that we make." He warned that if city negotiators try to use the police decision as a model for negotiations with the Teamsters, "they're going to have a war starting Monday."
Through a spokeswoman, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, Sandra Feldman, said she could not predict what effect the arbitration would have on the teacher's negotations until she had studied it.
 
Haunted by Teachers' Pact
 City officials hope that the arbitration panel's ruling will restore stability to labor talks that were thrown into tumult in October 1990 when Mayor Dinkins, over the objections of his Budget Director, agreed to give the teachers a 5.5 percent raise that was paid for in part by the state. The teachers' contract also raised eyebrows among fiscal experts inside and outside government who said New York City could not afford it. The teachers eventually agreed to defer a portion of the increase.
"The good thing about the aribitration, regardless of who won or who lost, is that it finally clears the board of the mistake made with the teachers and will let the city and the unions get down to real task at hand," said Raymond B. Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a private fiscal monitoring group.
The president of the P.B.A., Phil Caruso, said the union received as good a deal as was possible during a recession. "Considering the dire economic conditions, we're satisfied to the extent there are more pluses than minuses in the contract," he said. "I'm not totally happy, but we could live with it."
The 70-page decision added $1,000 per year to the annual salary for officers who serve more than five years. That automatic raise in pay, known as longevity pay, went to $2,000 from $1,000 for officers with five years service, to $3,000 from $2,000 for those with more than 10 years, to $4,000 from $3,000 for those with more than 15 years and to $5,000 from $4,000 for those with more than 20 years. The longevity pay raises mean a wage increase of more than 7.5 percent for officers with more than five years on the job, P.B.A. officials said.
 
Slew of Contract Changes
 But younger officers will pay for those gains, the P.B.A. said. The ruling ordered that the starting salary of all officers hired after June 1991 be frozen at the old levels, starting at $25,977, for the first five years the officer serves. Rookie officers also will receive about half the differential pay that veteran officers will get for working overnight shifts.
The union will also have to accept concessions on overtime. The department will be able to call in officers for special shifts on short notice 10 days a year without paying overtime.
Although the contract covered by the ruling has expired, it will remain in effect until agreement is reached on a new pact. Talks on a new contract will begin shortly, city and union officials said.
City budget officials said yesterday that they were still trying to untangle the complex question of how to pay the officers retroactive raises when much of the money is to come from savings from work-rule changes that have not gone into effect.
 
Paying for the Contract
 The entire cost of the 3.5 percent wage settlement through June 1991 will be $32.5 million dollars, Philip R. Michael, the city Budget Director, said. Of that, about $14 million was set aside in last year's budget. About $9.8 million will come from funds diverted by the city from the police pension fund to pay for raises. The rest -- about $8.7 million -- is supposed to be paid for through the labor concessions that, as a practical matter, can only take effect now.
But Mr. Michael said the city may have to pay some of the $8.7 million from the city general fund, but in the long run, it will recoup it from the concessions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arbitrators have ordered that the 18,000-member police union pay for part of a 4.5 percent wage increase with a salary freeze for newly hired officers. Phil Caruso, president of the Police Benevolent Association, foreground at left, listened to rank and file members after a meeting in Great Neck, L.I. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSN (PBA)

ORGANIZATION: ;PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSN (PBA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; CONTRACTS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (64%); 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



610 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 36; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Market Plunge Is Warning Sign, Cuomo Tells Business Executives

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C., Nov. 16

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo told an audience of leading corporate executives today that the stock market plunge on Friday should wake Washington up to the country's deep economic problems.
Speaking to the Fortune 500 Forum, an annual meeting of top executives from the country's largest companies, the Governor added another proposal to a package of economic-growth initiatives he has long endorsed. In order to provide banks with capital and liquidity, Mr. Cuomo suggested, the Federal Reserve Bank should invest $20 billion to $25 billion in bank stocks. 
 Mr. Cuomo, who is still considering whether he should enter the 1992 Presidential race, received a standing ovation from the crowd of about 200 people gathered in the ballroom of the Omni hotel. It was a particularly warm response for the New York Democrat, given that many in the audience would be directly affected by a proposal Mr. Cuomo reiterated today -- that a reduction in capital gains taxes should be accompanied by an increase in income taxes on those making more than $200,000 a year.
But the Governor seemed to strike a chord with his message that the economy requires extensive reform, and that neither the Republican White House nor the Democratic Congress have shown the will to address it.
Mr. Cuomo said he hoped that Friday's losses on Wall Street, in which the Dow Jones industrial average fell 120 points, would drive home the message.
"It does seem to me that what happened on the stock market said rather clearly that there is a growing acknowledgment that this economy is indeed crippled in a fundamental way," Mr. Cuomo said. He added that the economy "needs more than just prayers to some cyclical economic god or magic one-shots like a quick single tax cut to cure it."
Mr. Cuomo challenged the traditional Republican assertion, voiced recently by President Bush, that Democrats who are complaining about the economy are preaching doom and gloom.
"This is not 1982," he said. "There's less resiliency now. There are fewer options for corrections now.
"Can't you say that without being unpatriotic? I think so."
 
Economic Growth Plan
 Mr. Cuomo outlined an economic growth plan that would include a tax credit for investments in machinery and other capital, the gradual liberalization of depreciation schedules and the expansion of investments in research and development. "We need an investment-led recovery," he said.
Mr. Cuomo also called for Federal investments in roads and bridges, energy, education and human services. He said he would finance those initiatives by cutting defense and entitlement programs, improving tax collections and raising income taxes on the wealthy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORTUNE (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); INCOME TAX (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); TAX INCREASES (72%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (71%); DEPRECIATION (67%); GOVERNORS (59%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



611 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 42; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: L.I. Woman Is Killed, Apparently Trying to Stop Her Son's Suicide

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

 BODY:
A 34-year-old Long Island man and his mother were found dead in the basement of their ranch-style home in Roslyn yesterday -- both apparently the victims of the son's suicide, the police said.
The son, Charles Freed, frayed the wires on an electrical cord, wrapped it around his neck and plugged it in, electrocuting himself. His 71-year-old mother, Mildred, appeared to have died trying to save him, said Sgt. Daniel Severin of the Nassau County Police Department, though it was not clear if she had also been electrocuted or had died of a heart attack. 
 Their bodies were discovered at 10:30 A.M. by police officers searching the two-story house at 36 Regent Place, a winding street in an exclusive Roslyn neighborhood, after a daughter had called a neighbor to say no one answered the phone.
"It looks like he frayed the cord himself," Sergeant Severin said, "then wrapped the cord around his neck, and plugged the cord into an outlet."
Sergeant Severin said that a timer was attached to the electrical outlet, but that it was impossible to say if it had been used in the suicide. The medical examiner's office is to conduct an autopsy today to determine the time and the exact cause of the deaths.
Mrs. Freed's daughter in San Francisco, unable to reach her mother since Thursday, telephoned a neighbor early yesterday and asked her to check the house. The neighbor, Anita Weisfeld, then telephoned the police after noticing that three days' worth of newspapers and telephones books had gone uncollected and finding the front door unlocked.
"I was scared," Mrs. Weisfeld said. "I didn't go in."
Mrs. Weisfeld said she knew little about Mrs. Freed, except that she lived alone with her son and that four other children lived in California and Colorado. She said the son seemed "a little disturbed."
The police found no note or anything else to suggest why the son would kill himself, but Sergeant Severin said he was unemployed and had undergone psychiatric treatment in the past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ROSLYN (NY) UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS SUICIDE (91%); DEATHS (90%); AUTOPSIES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); 

PERSON: MYERS, STEVEN LEE; FREED, CHARLES; FREED, MILDRED STEVEN J LEE (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



612 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Praise for Catholic Bishops' Statement on Children

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
A statement by the National Conference of Catholic Bishops calling on the nation to make the needs of children and families its first priority got favorable reviews Friday from both ends of the political spectrum.
The statement combined opposition to abortion and "permissive divorce" with support for "broad-based child care," an increased minimum wage, tax benefits for parents, guaranteed access to health care, affordable housing policies, flexible job hours and parental-leave policies for family and medical needs. Weaving together themes of moral values with concerns about economic pressures and discrimination, the statement was intended to overcome what it termed "an unfortunate, unnecessary and unreal polarization in discussion of how best to help families." 
 Marion Wright Edelman, president of the Children's Defense Fund, a generally liberal child welfare advocacy group, said, "I'm so pleased about all the points of agreements, about causes and remedies, and that the bishops are making this call to action and lifting a strong moral voice on behalf of children, especially in an election year."
William R. Mattox, Jr., director of policy analysis for the conservative Family Research Council, said the bishops' statement was part of "a growing consensus that not only are our children at risk but that the problem is not simply an economic problem or a political problem or, for that matter, a moral problem, but one that includes all of those elements."
The bishops approved the 15,000-word statement on children during the closing session Thursday of what had been a rather lethargic four-day meeting. The 300-member body meets twice annually.
The bishops also approved a statement on the environment, their first step into an area where other religious groups have been active. The statement, drawing upon Catholic teachings about creation, nature and social responsibility, warned that "care for the earth" should not lead to "choosing between people and the planet."
The environmental statement was welcomed by Senator Al Gore, Democrat of Tennessee, who helped organize a "Summit Meeting on the Environment" attended by religious leaders last June in New York City.
 
'Tremendous Leadership'
 "A lot of environmentalists do not get past the church's position on birth control to see the tremendous leadership role of the church and the Pope where the global environment is concerned," the senator said in an interview yesterday.
But approval of a statement recognizing the sufferings of American Indians, a counterpoint to the bishops' planned 1992 commemoration of the arrival of Columbus and Christianity in the Americas, was delayed because it required a two-thirds' majority of active conference members.
So many bishops had left the meeting early that the conference will have to canvass absent members by mail. Several bishops said that the early departures were a sign of frustration with a meeting that had spent much time debating, and ultimately rejecting, a proposal to reduce the number of holy days of obligation, the six major feast days on which Catholics are expected to attend Mass in addition to Sundays.
In the statement on children, the bishops commented, "No government can love a child and no policy can substitute for a family's care," but "government can either support or undermine families."
"Money alone will not solve the problems of poor families, but there is no substitute for wise and thoughtful investment," they added.
But the bishops also emphasized that "traditional moral values are not relics of a bygone age."
 
Attacking 'Family Values'
 "Our news and entertainment media, despite some laudable efforts, too often attack family values, undermine moral principles, expose children to violence and to sexual themes on a daily basis," the bishops said. "Fundamental values of integrity, compassion, respect for others and honesty must be encouraged and reinforced by the culture at large."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (91%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (82%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS (91%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (82%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (56%); FAMILY RESEARCH COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; FEDERAL AID (US) CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); RELIGION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); FAMILY LEAVE (73%); CHILD CARE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MINIMUM WAGE (71%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (71%); APPROVALS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (63%); NATIVE AMERICANS (60%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (56%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



613 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 36; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook;
For Dinkins, an Evolving Opinion on South Africa

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 16

 BODY:
For Mayor David N. Dinkins, who weighs his every word, finding the right ones to describe his revulsion at the pervasive racial inequities here has been a challenge.
For years, in speeches in New York, he has referred to apartheid as "the only form of legalized slavery in the world." That drew derisive commentary in the white South African press before his arrival because the country has moved to dismantle many of the legal underpinnings of apartheid, although blacks still cannot vote. 
 Now the Mayor has been groping for a new way to describe apartheid that acknowledges both the changes and the work left to be done.
Just before he left New York he said South Africa had "the only form of legalized racism in the world."
On his arrival Tuesday, he said it had "the only form of legalized white supremacy in the world, and it is immoral."
A day later, he said the country had "the only form of legalized white supremacy in the world, and it is under attack and crumbling."
The one thing he cannot yet call this country is the one thing he most wants it to become -- "a non-racial democracy."
 
Driven to Be Selective
 The Mayor's party has also had to thread its way through more threatening diplomatic thickets. In Johannesburg, his dozen-car entourage has been escorted by local traffic police, but also by the South African National Police, long a pillar of the white-minority Government.
But on his overnight visit to Cape Town on Friday, where relations between the police and Mr. Dinkins's host, the African National Congress, are touchier, the delegation had only local traffic police and A.N.C. security force members as escorts. That was so, said the Rev. Allan Boesak, the regional A.N.C. chairman, because the state police had insisted on an intolerable degree of control, including the right to drive the Mayor's car.
"We have had some history of being driven by the South African Police," Mr. Boesak said, noting that on his last trip with them he was taken to jail. "And we had no wish to repeat that with the Mayor of New York. To the extent that the police are observing us, it will be in the sense that they always are."
It was enough to worry the Mayor's own New York police bodyguards, especially because only two of them have been allowed to carry their guns. Though the Mayor has been warmly received by peaceful crowds in black townships everywhere, there have been risks. A planned visit to the Crossroads squatter camp outside Cape Town, for example, was called off at the last minute because of fighting between the police and blacks that was serious enough to warrant Page 1 pictures in the local press the next day.
 
A Couple of Glitches
 When Mr. Dinkins moves around here, he leaves a big wake -- more than 50 people altogether, including advance people, aides and the traveling press. It is a logistical nightmare that has generally been handled with great precision, especially for an administration that regularly runs an hour and a half behind schedule at City Hall.
But there have been a couple of hitches. In one, two cars used by his entourage collided while speeding up a mountain road with lights flashing and sirens blaring, heading for the spectacular pink stucco tile of the Mount Nelson Hotel, where Mr. Dinkins was staying in Cape Town. No one was hurt, though the Mayor's press secretary, Leland T. Jones, who was riding in one of the cars, briefly became even more animated than his usual animated self.
The other bit of trouble came at the hotel itself. So sybaritic was the Mount Nelson, with its chintz curtains, canopy beds and sweeping views of Table Mountain, and so early the Mayor's return to Johannesburg today, that no one in his party wanted to leave. In fact one person didn't. The city Personnel Commissioner, Douglas H. White, overslept, and no one noticed in the rush to leave. He had to take a later flight.
 
Divide and Conquer
 South Africa may be on the road to change. But the many groups contending to shape its future are still arguing over the shape of the table, sometimes among themselves, and that came out in all sorts of small ways this week.
On Wednesday, the American Ambassador, William L. Swing, held a reception for Mr. Dinkins in Pretoria, to which the Mayor's entire entourage was invited. But not everyone went to sip cocktails and eat meatballs and rumaki from a 1960's style American buffet. Some A.N.C. officials badly wanted members of Mr. Dinkins's subcommittee on housing and economic development to skip the reception and attend a play, "Baby Come Duza," at the integrated Market Theater in Johannesburg. After a long discussion, the group sent representatives to both.
Among those dispatched to the play was Ron Shiffman, executive director of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is accompanying the Mayor to advise South Africans on building housing here. The play, it turned out, consisted of a series of songs about an area called Sophia Town that was bulldozed to displace the blacks who lived there.
"It was a much more comfortable place for me anyway," he said.
 
The Unwelcome Mat
 While the Mayor has been greeted by hundreds of well-wishers on his tour, some South Africans clearly wish he had not come at all.
After a speech by Mr. Dinkins to the Cape Town Press Club on Friday, in which he pressed for continued economic sanctions against the white-minority Government, an Afrikaner woman, a descendent of white settlers, approached New York reporters traveling with the Mayor.
The woman, Amanda Botha, bitterly criticized the Mayor, saying he was meddling in South Africa's affairs. She then turned to Joe Bragg, a black reporter for WRKS radio who is traveling with the Mayor.
"How would you like people coming to your country telling you what to do, telling you how to help?" she said.
Mr. Bragg, who grew up in North Carolina, replied without missing a beat: "I need all the help I can get! I'm still living with the legacy of slavery."

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Saying South Africa had "the only form of legalized white supremacy in the world," Mayor David N. Dinkins, shown with a South African child in Cape Town yesterday, added, "it is under attack and crumbling." (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; BLACKS (IN US); BLACKS (NON-US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION RACE & RACISM (90%); MAYORS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



614 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: Despite All the Talk of Tax Cuts, People Can Expect to Pay More

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
With the economy mired in recession and incumbents running scared, tax cut fever is once again loose on the land. But recent history offers little reason to believe this latest rush to placate voters will yield enduring tax relief.
A decade after property tax revolts in a dozen states and the across-the- board tax cuts of the Reagan era, the percentage of income that Americans pay in taxes is back to a postwar peak. Only the very richest, and perhaps the poorest, have remained a step ahead of the tax collector. 
 Few people doubt that voters are ready to punish the bearers of bad tax tidings. In New Jersey, for example, Republicans gained veto-proof control of the Legislature in an election widely seen as a referendum on the $2.8 billion tax increase sponsored last year by Gov. Jim Florio, a Democrat.
 
Realities of Finance
 But one way or another, economists and budget analysts maintain, the political pressure for tax reduction will be dissipated by the immovable realities of government finance. Unless Americans are prepared to sacrifice cherished services and retirement benefits -- notably Social Security -- the cost of government will continue to rise faster than incomes.
In 1980, Washington collected 20.3 percent of the gross national product in taxes and fees. The enormous tax cuts of 1981, the result of political competition between the Reagan Administration and Congressional Democrats, knocked a percentage point and a half off the take from the personal and corporate income taxes. Declining revenues from excise taxes clipped a bit more off the overall tax burden.
Yet those cuts were offset by a steady rise in Social Security payroll taxes and a series of minor tax increases aimed at containing the budget deficit. By the end of the decade, taxes had come full circle. After slipping to 19.6 percent of G.N.P. in 1985, total Federal revenues from taxes reached 20.3 percent in 1990.
The numbers tell a similar story for state and local governments. In 1980, their revenues stood at 14.3 percent of the G.N.P. -- seven-tenths of a percentage point less than in 1975, before the property tax revolts that forced rollbacks in many states. By 1990 the figure had crept up to 14.7 percent.
And the burden on taxpayers was far greater than these statistics suggest, said Robert Ebel of KPMG Peat Marwick in Washington, because it masks a decline in Federal aid. State and local revenues from non-Federal sources actually rose from 11 percent of G.N.P. in 1980 to 12.2 percent in 1990.
All told, Americans paid 32.6 percent of G.N.P. to government in 1990, compared with 31.3 percent in 1980 and 30 percent in 1975. And the greatest burden has almost certainly been borne by middle-income families -- those earning $20,000 to $60,000. Their payroll tax deductions have risen by roughly one- third since the mid-1970's.
 
The Big Payroll Tax
 Indeed, few Americans are apparently aware how much the payroll tax has grown. Economists generally agree that both the employee and employer shares represent a tax on wages. And when both shares are counted, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that two families out of three now pay more in Social Security tax than in Federal income tax.
Only the top 1 percent of earners (who reaped the benefits of lower maximum tax rates) and the bottom 20 percent (who gained from cuts in the personal taxes and more generous earned income tax credits) have come out ahead on Federal taxes.
It is harder to generalize about the diverse changes in taxes in the 50 states and thousands of localities. But their heavy dependence on sales, property and excise taxes virtually guarantees that levies represent a greater portion of the income of the poor and middle class than of the wealthy.
Robert McIntyre of Citizens for Tax Justice, a nonprofit liberal lobbying group in Washington, says the generally regressive state and local tax system has grown more regressive since the mid-1980's. While every income class is paying more this year than in 1985, he estimates that the percentage increases for families in the top 5 percent are smaller than the average.
Frank Levy, an economist at the University of Maryland, believes that parallel changes in the distribution of family earnings have sharply magnified the sense of grievance about taxes among middle-class Americans. Congressional Budget Office figures support his contention.
Adjusted for household size and inflation, the incomes of the richest 20 percent of American families rose by 33 percent from 1977 to 1988, and the incomes of those in the top 1 percent rose a whopping 95 percent. Pretax incomes of the middle-fifth of families, by contrast, grew by just 4 percent in the same period -- a gain that left few smiling since it was entirely dependent on the rise in the number of hours spent working outside the home. The incomes of those in the bottom two-fifths of the pecking order, the majority of younger, blue-collar families, actually fell.
That has set the political stage for tax relief, with the focus on assuaging middle-class frustrations before next year's elections. Some Democrats have taken aim at the Social Security payroll tax, which now totals 15.3 percent of the first $53,400 in wages; others would provide tax credits for families with children or allow middle- income families to shelter more income in retirement accounts.
And after concluding last month that revisiting tax policy would destroy last year's deficit reduction pact, President Bush has reportedly decided that the Democrats cannot be allowed to grab the tax cut issue as their own. Administration sources expect that the White House will come up with a tax package containing both capital gains breaks and payroll tax cuts.
 
No More Bracket Creep
 But the laws of arithmetic pose daunting obstacles to those who would get Uncle Sam off the taxpayers' backs. Before 1984, notes Eugene Steurle, an economist at the Urban Institute and the author of the forthcoming book "The Tax Decade," so-called bracket creep in the progressive income tax served as an automatic tax increase. That gave Congress an easy source of revenue to give back periodically in the form of cuts in tax rates. Since 1984, however, tax brackets have been indexed to inflation, a reform that reduced potential revenues in 1990 by a whopping $57 billion.
Washington could pay for a tax cut with spending cuts. But a large and growing portion of the budget is devoted to interest on the national debt and to programs like Social Security and Medicare that are widely viewed as untouchable.
Military spending, by contrast, seems a juicy target in the wake of the collapse of the Soviet threat. But Barry Bosworth of the Brookings Institution suggests, "We've pre-spent the peace dividend."
Under the 1990 budget accord, annual military spending must fall by about $25 billion over the next two years. Thereafter, total discretionary spending must be cut by roughly 3 percent annually in real terms -- most of which, analysts believe, will have to be met by proportionately larger cuts in military outlays. Indeed, with growing political demand for a greater Federal contribution in health care, day care and education, it seems likely that the peace dividend will be spent more than once.
Simply to cut the overall deficit to about 2 percent of G.N.P., as envisaged in the budget agreement, the economy would have to grow by about 2 1/2 percent annually over the next five years. But that rate is at the outer fringe of current forecasts. "They'll have to raise taxes just to stand still," Mr. Bosworth concludes.
State and local governments seem in no better position to give taxpayers an enduring break. While the public may attribute the disproportionate growth of state and local spending to waste, William Baumol, an economist at New York University, thinks there is a simpler, if less satisfying, explanation. Education, health care and police protection, which absorb the bulk of the state and local tax dollar, are essentially "handicraft industries," he says, which resist growth in productivity.
General Electric may be able to triple the number of clothes dryers a worker can make by automating its production lines. But gains for nurses and kindergarten teachers are far harder won -- indeed, the quality of education is often measured by the teacher-pupil ratio. As a result, Professor Baumol says, the costs of such services inevitably rise faster than overall inflation in the long run. And that effectively guarantees taxpayers will have to shell out more, in return for less.
A closer look at state and local finance confirms the diagnosis. Steven Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States at the Rockefeller Institute in Albany, points out that the states' spending from their own tax sources for Medicaid and prisons have risen twice as fast as personal income since the mid-1970's. Total state outlays as a percentage of personal income barely grew -- but only because school enrollment slumped as a percentage of the population and the mentally ill were largely left to their fate on the streets.
 
Could Get Worse
 Mr. Gold notes, moreover, that the past is only prelude. School enrollments are rising faster than in the 1980's, as are the number of people eligible for Medicaid. And the 1980's surge in the prison population is not likely to be spent before the middle of the decade. That probably explains why the focus in state and local tax analysis these days is on reforms that broaden the tax base and insulate vital services from the anticipated effects of lagging revenue growth.
As a question of governance, the picture seems bleak: With voters apparently unreconciled to paying for services they demand from government, taxes are likely to remain an irritant eating at the fabric of rational public policy. But Richard Cooper, an economist at Harvard, does offer one slightly brighter perspective.
The tax burden on Americans, he notes, remains a little lower than the burden on Japanese and far lower than the burden on most Europeans. What is more, average tax burdens in the other advanced industrialized countries have been growing more rapidly.
This hardly proves that Americans are undertaxed; much obviously depends on democratically perceived need for government services. But Mr. Cooper points out that it does put the burden of proof on those who argue that high taxes are at the core of America's lagging economic performance.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Tax Burdens On American," tracks total amount of the nation's wealth, as measured by the gross national product, that goes to Federal, state and local governments, 1950-1990 (Source: U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations) (pg. 1); "Taxes in Other Countries," tracks total tax returns as a percentage of a country's total output, total average, U.S., Japan, West Germany, Sweden, for 1965, 1975 and 1988 (Source: U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Affairs); "The Rates People Pay," tracks percentage of the income of a family of four that goes to state and local taxes, 1985-91* and percentage of family income that goes to Federal taxes, 1977-1992* (*1991 and 1992, estimate) (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KPMG LLP (62%); ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADVISORY COMMISSION ON INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); VETO (74%); EXCISE TAX (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); FAMILY (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



615 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions Won't Hurt Qaddafi, His Foes Say

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 16

 BODY:
The latest confrontation between Western powers and the the Government of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi comes as Libya's ties with African and Arab countries are fraying, its ability to carry out or support international acts of terror severely constrained and its economy beset by mismanagement and huge expenditures on questionable development projects.
Still, Libyan opponents of the Qaddafi leadership say the expected imposition of further economic sanctions, possibly next week, will only complicate the lives of ordinary Libyans without provoking Colonel Qaddafi's fall from power, which has been the desire of Western and some Arab governments. 
 "The idea of squeezing the Libyan people so that they in turn squeeze Qaddafi out does not work in our region," said Mansour Kikhia, a former Libyan foreign minister and now a leading opponent of the Government living in exile in France. "This has been amply demonstrated in Iraq where Saddam Hussein is still in control."
Like other opponents, Mr. Kikhia concedes that the external opposition groups are too feeble and divided to overthrow the 22-year-old Qaddafi leadership, while internal opponents, primarily Muslim fundamentalists, have been savagely repressed with arrests, detention without trial and torture.
"Our only hope is that he will continue to create his own problems until his regime becomes so embroiled in them it will simply collapse," Mr. Kikhia said in a telephone interview.
Nevertheless, the American indictment on Thursday of two Libyan Government intelligence agents in the Pan Am 103 bombing and the issuing of arrest warrants by a French judge last month for Libyans suspected of roles in the explosions of two passenger airliners in 1989 have made it highly unlikely that the North African country can regain international economic standing.
Arab diplomats here also noted that coordinated actions taken by the United States, France and Britain against Libya in the last few days constituted a clear signal to other militant governments in the Middle East, particularly Iran and Syria, that support of terror could bring severe reprisals.
 
Qaddafi's Unmet Goals
 Colonel Qaddafi, who overthrew the Libyan monarchy in 1969, has seen virtually none of his revolutionary ambitions come to pass. These foiled objectives have included:
*Efforts to export a political system based on a "rule of the masses" to any country, along with advocacy of a third-world theory intended to supplant capitalism and Communism. This doctrine, contained in a manuscript called the "Green Book," has become the laughing stock in African and Arab newspapers.
*Monetary or weapons support for Arab terrorist groups like the Palestinian renegade organization of Abu Nidal, and violent nationalist movements like the Irish Republican Army. These groups are strained by internal dissent and hampered in their existence by the collape of international Communism.
*Economic progress and development. Despite a yearly income from oil estimated at $7 billion to $8 billion, Libyan growth is severely hampered by a 300 percent yearly inflation rate and an expenditure of $25 billion to create a man-made "artificial river" to transport potable water in giant pipelines hundred of miles from the Mediterranean coast to the desert.
Salameh Ahmed Salameh, managing editor of the Egyptian newspaper Al Ahram, said: "They are throwing so much money on this project, which will only function for 50 or 60 years and deplete the underground reserves of sweet water. What is happening in that country can only be described as unreal." .
Now, anger against Libya in the wake of the Pan Am 103 indictment and French judicial action has opened the possibility that oil, virtually the country's only exportable product, may soon be boycotted by several important Western buyers, including France, Italy and Germany.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (66%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

COMPANY: ;PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LIBYA LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SYRIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (71%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES ; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); TRENDS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); INDICTMENTS (71%); FUNDAMENTALISM (69%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%); AIRLINES (68%); JUDGES (66%); RELIGION (66%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (63%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL); KIKHIA, MANSOUR SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



616 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Exiled Chief Seeks to Punish Coup Plotters

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Nov.15

 BODY:
Six weeks after a violent army coup ousted his Government, Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, has called for national reconciliation, but says it must begin with the punishment of the officers who overthrew him.
Father Aristide's comments in an interview on Thursday came a day after a mission of the Organization of American States left Haiti with an agreement from legislators to continue efforts to restore constitutional order in the country. 
 Speaking in the hotel here that has been his base since the coup, Father Aristide appealed to Haiti's upper classes to compare their concerns over human rights and legal questions during his tenure of nearly eight months with the bloodshed and repression the country has seen under the military-backed provisional Government that replaced him.
"I will ask, as I have already asked, for all of the population, every segment of the population to make concessions around the table of dialogue, to extend each other a hand, and make the rights of everyone respected," Father Aristide said in his heavily guarded 20th-floor suite overlooking downtown Caracas.
 
Democracy 'Assassinated'
 Throughout the interview, Father Aristide returned bitterly to the army commander, Brig. Gen. Raoul Cedras, and a group of Haitian officers under him who he said must be punished before any solution to the country's political crisis could be achieved.
"The majority opted for democracy with their vote," said Father Aristide of his overwhelming victory in Haiti's first democratic elections last December. "Today," he added, referring to the army's senior commanders "Cedras, Maj. Francois Valme and their little group of putschists have assassinated that democracy by killing more than 1,000 people in one week."
International human rights groups have estimated the coup-related death toll at 180 to 500, but Father Aristide repeatedly used the figure of 1,000, citing what he said was the discovery of many victims in mass graves.
Some of Haiti's legislators have urged that General Cedras keep his post if Father Aristide should return, but the deposed leader rejected the idea out of hand, calling the army commander the author of crimes against humanity. If the army leaders are not jailed or exiled, he asked, "how can you protect democracy?"
Father Aristide said enlisted men, who some diplomats believe may be as violently opposed to the President's return as their superiors, merely "obey the commands they receive" and would be offered amnesty.
Asked if he could work with members of Parliament who had acquiesced in his overthrow by naming a provisional Government, Father Aristide said "the Constitution will decide." His bitterest comments were reserved for Haiti's interim Prime Minister, Jean-Jacques Honorat, formerly the head of a human rights monitoring group. Mr. Aristede said Mr. Honorat was "standing atop a pile of cadavers."
Father Aristide repeated an often-stated belief that the economic embargo imposed upon Haiti by the 34 members of the Organization of American States, which cut off gasoline and most other supplies to the country this month, would eventually enable him to return to power.
Expressing frustration over the growing length of his exile and the hardening sentiment against his return among many in Haiti's small elite, however, Father Aristide, who has previously ruled out the use of force, suggested for the first time that foreign intervention might be required.
"We can increase the sanctions if we must," he said. "In the case of Iraq, they knew it was necessary and they did it. In Moscow, there was no embargo and yet they removed that coup within three days. In Haiti, it has been a month and a half."
 
A Critical Measure
 In a bid for conciliation, the deposed President, who spoke in French throughout the 40-minute interview, said that he was willing to dissolve his Government "at the opportune moment" and replace it with a new Prime Minister and Cabinet to be selected in consultation with members of the opposition. Diplomats close to the O.A.S.-led talks called this offer a critical confidence-building measure.
Father Aristide, whose support remains strong among the poor who make up the bulk of Haiti's population, dismissed concerns expressed by many in the elite over his Government's commitment to constitutional rule and his perceived encouragement of mob violence.
"There has never been a government in Haiti that has respected human rights as much as ours," Father Aristide said.
During his time in office, he added, "there was never one case of Pere Lebrun," the popular name given to street lynchings with burning tires. Complaints about these incidents, he said, are "a pretext waved around as if you could hide the forest with a tree."
 
Comments Disputed
 In a telephone interview from New York, however, Kenneth Roth, deputy director of the human rights monitoring organization Americas Watch, disputed Father Aristide's comments on popular violence.
"To say there was no Pere Lebrun is ridiculous," Mr. Roth said. "By our count there were at least 25 cases, and we didn't imagine them.
"The biggest problem is not that Aristide did nothing to stop these incidents, despite his tremendous moral prestige. But in the last couple of months of his presidency, he actually gave two speeches encouraging Pere Lebrun."
Despite these concerns, however, Mr. Roth said the Aristide Government had made advances in human rights over other recent Haitian regimes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, has called for national reconciliation. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ASK ASA (69%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (90%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS ARMIES (93%); COUPS (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (74%); AMNESTY (72%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (68%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); RAOUL CEDRAS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



617 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: NOTEBOOK;
Are the Mets Waving $28 Million at Bonilla?

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
The Mets let Darryl Strawberry escape from New York last November, perhaps intentionally, but they have every intention of trying to lure Bobby Bonilla home. They may be so determined to achieve their goal that they will offer Bonilla $28 million for five years.
It isn't known if the Mets will make that offer to baseball's No. 1 free agent in their meeting scheduled for today. But word that has emerged from a circle of baseball people close to the Mets is that General Manager Al Harazin has decided to try to secure Bonilla's services with the staggering offer of $5.6 million a year. 
 No confirmation of the figures was available. Harazin did not return a telephone call seeking comment on that report; he wouldn't disclose his plans anyway. Another baseball executive familiar with the Mets' general thinking said: "I don't know that, but I can believe it. They want Bonilla very badly. They have to do something striking to improve their fan base."
Once Bonilla became a free agent, it was generally felt that he would get at least $5 million a year for five years. He and his agent, Dennis Gilbert, certainly are confident of that because they recently rejected the Pittsburgh Pirates' latest offer of $18.5 million for four years.
Because the California Angels, buoyed by Gene Autry's ready-to-spend money, are also eager to add Bonilla to their lineup, it was further believed that the outfielder very likely could reach $6 million a year. If the Mets are serious about offering $5.6 million, what's another $400,000 a year?
Why would the Mets be prepared to give Bonilla $28 million? They certainly weren't willing to go anywhere near that level to keep Strawberry a year ago, although the nagging suspicion remains that they didn't want to keep him. There are two ways of viewing the likelihood of such an offer.
One is that it is highly unlikely. Harazin has grown up in the baseball business under the conservative Frank Cashen, this argument goes, and he wouldn't be able to break out of the fiscal constraints that Cashen employed in his lengthy tenure as general manager.
The other view, however, is that Harazin deliberately, though not altogether insanely, would flex his economic muscles to establish his own identity, to serve notice that he is no Cashen clone. How better to achieve that aim than by overwhelming Bonilla and inserting him in the middle of the Mets' lineup, where Strawberry once cavorted.
Harazin has another reason to make a dramatic move and instantly restore the Mets to contending status. He wants to prove himself worthy of his new job.
Until a year ago, the Mets planned to replace Cashen, when he retired, with a two-headed team of Joe McIlvaine and Harazin. McIlvaine would have handled the personnel end, Harazin the business side. But McIlvaine stunned the Mets by becoming general manager of the San Diego Padres, and that left Harazin to be in charge of personnel as well.
Harazin has come to the job, though, with the reputation that all business-side executives have: they don't know personnel. Harazin feels otherwise and wants to show he can do the job. Catapulting the team back into contention would support his view.
If Harazin is prepared to offer Bonilla $28 million for five years, he would be making a bold move. But what would he do if Whitey Herzog offered more on behalf of the Angels? Harazin has said he won't do anything stupid or crazy. Would he be willing to raise his bid?
The answer to the question may lie in Harazin's definition of stupid and crazy. He hasn't said, but $6 million a year probably would be it.
 
On Selig, Signings and Sanity
 As chairman of the Player Relations Committee board of directors, Bud Selig screams out for fiscal sanity. When he hears about the kind of signing Bonilla will be, he shakes his head, looks forlorn and warns of imminent disaster. "He's absolutely vitriolic," one colleague said.
But in the best do-as-I-say-not-as-I-do tradition, as owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, Selig undergoes a metamorphosis and authorizes some highly questionable signings.
Last year, he gave Ted Higuera $13 million for four years despite the pitcher's lengthy history of physical problems. Six starts into the contract, Higuera was finished for the season with a torn rotator cuff. His future status as a pitcher is far from assured.
Discussing the Higuera signing last August, shortly before the left-hander's operation, Selig stressed that the rotator-cuff tear was unrelated to his previous problems, which involved his back, a knee and an ankle.
"We knew it was a gamble, but it was a gamble on other parts," the owner said. "You could say we should have seen it coming; if it was his back, I could say we were dumb. But his back, knee and ankle are fine."
What, then, is Selig's excuse for ignoring his own preaching about not giving players more than three years, and signing Bill Wegman last week to a four-year, $9.5 million contract?
Wegman had shoulder surgery in 1989 and elbow surgery in 1990, serving on the disabled list for the last four months of each season and the first 25 days of the past season. The Brewers are taking a four-year gamble not on the pitcher's back, knee and ankle but on his arm.
Wegman himself acknowledged surprise that he got four years, saying he thought it would be difficult to get the three years that he wanted.
Selig did not return telephone calls to explain his thinking on the Wegman signing, but Sal Bando, his new general manager, said that the Brewers indeed practiced "fiscal responsibility" in the signing.
"There's no way we would have done the money they were asking for three years," Bando said. "We had to do four years. I think Bud's in a difficult position because they're preaching fiscal responsibility. I'm saying we thought we were in terms of the final product."
 
No Elbow Room in Boston
 Even in the unusual configuration of Fenway Park, Mike Greenwell, Ellis Burks, Phil Plantier, Carlos Quintana, Tom Brunansky and Mo Vaughn do not fit into three outfield positions and first base. Someone -- or two -- has to go.
The crowd might seem like a problem for the Boston Red Sox, but it's really their strength. Like most teams, they desperately need a starting pitcher or two -- Roger Clemens can pitch only once every five days -- and they are one of the few teams with legitimate players to trade.
"You've got to move somebody," General Manager Lou Gorman said. "There's a chance we would do something."
The arrival of Plantier in the outfield and Vaughn at first base this year created the crowd. Plantier, who batted .331 and drove in a run every 4.2 times at bat, can play left field or right, meaning he could replace Greenwell or Brunansky. But Quintana, a .295 hitter, also can play right, especially if Vaughn drives in enough runs to play first regularly.
Brunansky is the member of the group the Red Sox would most like to shed, but he woouldn't bring the quality pitcher Greenwell or Burks would. Of the two, Greenwell is the most likely to be traded because his value would be higher than Burks's right now, and Burks is the only legitimate center fielder the team has.
Plagued by physical ailments this year, Burks batted .251 and drove in 56 runs, the nadir of his five-year Red Sox career.
"He could bounce back and have a heck of a year," Gorman said.
 
Cubs' Corporate Ladder
 First Don Grenesko, president, and now Jim Frey, general manager, have paid the corporate price for moves that didn't work.
Last month, The Tribune Company, owner of the Chicago Cubs, "promoted" Grenesko into a corporate position as vice president and chief financial officer. He was deemed to have bungled the managerial move the Cubs made last May when he replaced Don Zimmer with Jim Essian.
Frey, a friend of Zimmer since boyhood, lost that battle and last week he lost the war, though not deservedly so. He was replaced by Larry Himes and will return to Baltimore, where he will serve out the remaining year of his contract as senior vice president, a glorified title for a scout.
After Frey persuaded the bottom-line owners last winter to commit $25.2 million for the free agents Danny Jackson, George Bell and Dave Smith, he was asked if his job would be on the line if the team didn't win.
"I don't feel that that's the natural consequence of spending money," he said. "If that was the case, there would be 25 clubs at the end of the year where the general manager should probably feel uncomfortable."
It wasn't just that the Cubs didn't win that bothered Tribune officials. It was that Jackson, an injury-prone pitcher, was injured much of the time -- he made only 14 starts -- and Smith, too, broke down.
Frey, who learned of the change at 5:30 P.M. Wednesday, took it philosophically.
"When it's time to leave," he said, "there's always disappointment and frustration at not getting where you want to be. But over all, I've had a great time in Chicago. I managed the team, we won a division championship and I came back as general manager and had four great years. There was a lot of disappointnment this year because of our high expectations. I guess that's why I'm leaving. Because of developments here the last month, it was a little surprising. All you heard and read about was a new president and my role would be same. Then a couple of days ago they made a switch."
In scouting players in East Coast parks, Frey will encounter Dallas Green, who works out of Philadelphia in a similar role for the Mets. Green, who was the Cubs' president, fired Frey as the team's manager in 1986, and the two have not cared for each other since.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Baseball's No. 1 free agent, Bobby Bonilla, may be offered a staggering amount to play for the Mets. Braves' Dave Justice is at right. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (54%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); PITTSBURGH PIRATES (55%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (54%); CALIFORNIA ANGELS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; CONTRACTS BASEBALL (90%); ATHLETES (71%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; BONILLA, BOBBY ROBERTO MARTIN ANTONIO 'BOBBY' BONILLA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



618 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
Berlin's Denkmal War

 BODY:
Paint it purple. Let vines grow on it. Put it in quarantine by storing it in a museum. Or tilt it sideways, thus mocking its purpose.
These were among the imaginative ideas advanced in the great German debate about the 60-foot statue of Lenin in eastern Berlin, an argument now settled by a court decision ordering its removal. Unresolved is a harder question for Berliners: What other reminders of their past should be kept, or thrown away? 
 Opinions on this are almost as plentiful as the Denkmals, or memorials, that abound in what used to be Berlin's Communist half. Especially contentious is the fate of plaques and street names honoring victims in the anti-Nazi resistance -- many of them Communists who died opposing Hitler's monstrous Reich. Is their sacrifice negated by the misdeeds of an East German regime for which they bore no responsibility?
This recent visitor felt like an eavesdropper in a passionate family quarrel.
Alfred Kernd'l, Berlin's city archeologist, speaks for the preservationists: "All the memorials are now part of our history. Germany doesn't have that much national identity. It would be far more honest to connect with our past, rather than close our eyes to it."
Christoph Stolzl, the director of the new German History Museum, pertinently notes that Allied forces in 1945 forbade the public display of Nazi symbols, a ban made permanent by West and East German regimes. "And does anyone regret that?" Whatever case can be made for saving Denkmals honoring German leftists, he goes on, "I draw the line at Lenin, Stalin's mass-killing predecessor -- I'd feel the same about a statue to Goering."
Hans Otto Brautigam, a former West German diplomat and now Minister of Justice in Brandenburg, adjoining eastern Berlin, makes a distinction between destroying a monument in the euphoria of revolt and doing so as a calculated act. "It's perhaps best to let the people who live with it make the decision."
As the argument rages, some people have already removed tablets from their homes recording the death of anti-Nazi fighters. Young "guerrilla archeologists" have responded by putting up fresh markers. An especially troubling dispute concerns a high school once named for Mildred Fish Harnack, an American who was guillotined by the Nazis in 1943. It is now the "Fifth Comprehensive School," pending a decision by the Berlin Senate on whether to restore the old name -- as its students and teachers wish.
My parents knew Mildred in Wisconsin, where she married a German economist, Arvid Harnack. They returned to Germany, where Arvid became co-leader of a Berlin resistance group that Hitler's Abwehr named "the Red Orchestra." After their arrest and torture, Arvid was sentenced to death, Mildred to hard labor. Her retrial was ordered by Hitler himself, and a compliant military tribunal ordered her execution. She was 40.
In the West, the Harnacks' memory has been clouded by the controversies over their group's transmission of military secrets to the Soviet Union. Yet German Communists and their Marxist allies were among the first to challenge Hitler from within -- indeed, no resistance faction endured more executions. That truth is generously recognized in a museum in western Berlin devoted to the resistance, scrupulously documented by its director, Peter Steinbach of Passau University.
The Lenin statue is a simpler matter; so is the removal of hammers and sickles. But to strip the Mildred Harnack School of its name would dishonor a brave American and historical truth. She and her associates did what they could to oppose a truly evil regime. Their resistance was a moral, not a political, choice; it should not be forgotten. -- KARL E. MEYER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;GERMANY; BERLIN (GERMANY) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); 

SUBJECT: MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); HISTORY (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); VANDALISM (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SENTENCING (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); 

PERSON: MEYER, KARL E

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



619 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Infamy Is Still Infamy

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
As Dec. 7 and the 50th anniversary of the day of infamy approach, Japanese are embracing an infamous explanation to excuse their guilt for World War II. Japan, so the story goes, did not really launch a sneak attack against Pearl Harbor.
It is an elaborate tale about a diplomatic message so badly mishandled by Japan's Embassy in Washington that the warning of war it contained did not get through until after Japanese aircraft had already loosed their bombs and torpedoes. 
 The tale has such power that when it was raised recently in the Diet, or parliament, Foreign Minister Nakayama felt compelled to make "a bow of contrition for an event that occurred when he was a schoolchild," as Ayako Doi writes in The Daily Japan Digest.
The suggestion of innocence is as frightening as it is preposterous. What would have been changed if the Japanese Embassy had given advance notice of attack as required by international law? What consciences would have been quieted if the U.S. had been provided with what amounted to a few minutes' warning? The results would have been the same at Pearl Harbor and in the minds of horrified Americans.
That so many Japanese fail to understand this demonstrates the galactic chasm still separating the two societies, one that transcends economic competition.
The story as recounted in Japan Digest is an old one that has gained new currency on the eve of Pearl Harbor. Here it is.
On Saturday, Dec. 6, Tokyo transmitted a 14-page telegram to its Washington embassy. The critical last page with delivery instructions was not even translated until Sunday morning because the officer in charge was busy organizing a Chinese dinner for a departing colleague. A First Secretary was told to do the translation and typing himself. His typing was very slow and inaccurate, forcing Ambassador Nomura to delay his Sunday 1 P.M. appointment with Secretary of State Cordell Hull until 2 P.M. The Ambassador arrived at 2:05 and was kept waiting until 2:20. By that time, the attack had been under way for an hour. (And by the way, hours after the U.S. had already intercepted and decoded the same message.)
These facts are apparently not in dispute. The question is the meaning of the facts. Many Japanese want them to mean that Tokyo intended to observe accepted rules of war and declare war before striking. If the diplomats had done their job properly, they say, the action at Pearl Harbor would have been a "surprise," but not a "sneak" attack. Thus, restored honor and no Japanese guilt.
That explanation is of a piece with the prevailing Japanese view that because President Roosevelt imposed economic sanctions on Japan, Tokyo had no choice but to attack as the only way of avoiding economic strangulation. Lost in this rendition of history is the fact that U.S. sanctions came in stages and only after Japan had invaded Manchuria, China and Indochina.
Japanese also pair Pearl Harbor and Hiroshima, writes Columbia historian Carol Gluck, and see them as forming "a tidy moral calculus in which Japan's aggressive attack is balanced by the nuclear bombings. . . ."
John Toland, the great popular historian of this period, believes the Japanese have good grounds for thinking they behaved no worse than other colonial powers like Britain and France. He also believes the Japanese were special victims because the U.S. dropped two atomic bombs on them "that weren't necessary." He said in a telephone interview that there is no need now for a Japanese apology.
A group of Japanese historians and civil activists think otherwise. They have petitioned their Government "to apologize publicly for these transgressions," pay damages to the victims of Japanese aggression and conduct an inquiry into the historical facts of the war.
The Japanese people should listen to these voices, and not to the siren songs of their historical revisionists who destroy all sense of cause and effect, right and wrong. These contortionists give new weight to Japan-bashers and to those who argue it is hopeless for Americans to communicate and cooperate with the Japanese.
As the Pearl Harbor anniversary nears, this much is clear: If Japan wants to rewrite World War II with self-indulgent myths, the infamy will linger and the end will be the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PEARL HARBOR (HAWAII) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); HAWAII, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (1939-45) WORLD WAR II (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GELB, LESLIE H

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



620 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 369 words

HEADLINE: Let's Reward Investments That Aid Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The depressing news about the lack of growth in the economy is again raising discussions about tax relief and heating up the debate over special tax rates for capital gains. The theory behind capital-gains tax preferences is that they stimulate the economy by rewarding people who invest in creating new capital assets. 
 In reality, most capital transactions have nothing to do with creating new capital assets, but are trades of publicly held securities or of real estate. To reward those who invest their excess funds in stocks or buildings, rather than savings accounts is another way of rewarding the richest segments of the community at the expense of the rest of us.
But real capital investment is essential to economic growth and should be rewarded. Real capital investment involves creation of jobs and the purchase of all kinds of capital goods. Thus, a person who buys a new issue of stock, where the proceeds go to the company, which uses the money to increase inventory or build production facilities, really does make a contribution to the economy, and the investor deserves special tax treatment. But what has the person who buys the stock from that investor done to aid the economy -- nothing.
Similarly, when an investor builds a building and creates something of value, those profits should receive special treatment. The syndicate that then buys it should receive no special benefits. If the later buyer improves the capital asset to produce a positive effect on the economy, the profits on that portion of the proceeds should be entitled to special treatment.
We have to stop using catch phrases like economic growth as a justification for hurting the middle-income taxpayer more. Why not reward those who help our economy and tax those who produce nothing except profit from buying and selling the work product of others?
If we have learned nothing else from the disastrous excesses of the 1980's, we should have learned that Wall Street has long since ceased providing a means of collectively financing the growth of an industrial society, and to a sickening degree has become the arena of those who only take.
 
BARTON A. PASTERNAK
Wyncote, Pa., Nov. 1, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); JOB CREATION (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



621 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Let's Reward Investments That Aid Economy;
Interest-Rate Puzzle

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Lower interest rates always have been a good way of stimulating the economy," says Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman (front page, Nov. 2). This fundamental wisdom is offered daily by economists, government officials and television pundits. As a nonexpert, I don't understand it. 
 I can see how lower interest rates may benefit banks, savings and loan institutions, insurance companies and other lenders, as well as Wall Street speculators and big corporations that borrow millions of dollars. But I cannot see how lower rates benefit the millions of Americans out of work and the millions of families scraping by with two or more breadwinners, not to mention the millions who are poverty stricken and those on welfare. They don't have money to buy, whatever the interest rates. At the same time, lower rates reduce the purchasing power of the retired and others who have some savings.
Interest rates have come down steadily; yet the economy "is heading back into recession," according to Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, chairman of the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. It seems to me this interest-rate notion is merely part of the trickle-down theory, which didn't work for Herbert Hoover and isn't working for George Bush.
The only common-sense way to escape the economic morass is to put dollars in the pockets of the millions of Americans who need to spend them to stimulate our vast production machine. And the only productive way to put those dollars there is, as the New Deal experience showed, through massive Government-sponsored public works -- on the infrastructure, the environment, health care, housing, education and other parts of our society needing repair and improvement.
While awaiting some real proof that interest rates play the determining role in the economy, all I can see is that both are going down, down, down.
 
GEORGE F. NELSON
New York, Nov. 3, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); RECESSION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SAVINGS & LOANS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (69%); INSURANCE (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



622 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: Let's Reward Investments That Aid Economy;
To Boost Spending

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The most recent increase in the unemployment rate to 6.8 percent is, almost literally, the tip of the iceberg. Our economy is cold and threatens to get colder. The chilling fact is that layoffs continue, even by strong, profitable companies and states and municipalities that must balance their budgets. Add to this the hundreds of thousands of Persian Gulf war veterans who will displace their substitute workers or be added directly to the ranks of the unemployed. 
 It is not only the jobless who are not prime prospects to buy the big-ticket items and power the economy by consumer spending. Millions of the employed are chary in spending, fearing the dreaded pink slip.
Our projected Federal budget deficits are rising, and the actual figures from 1969 to 1988 have exceeded projections by a whopping 41 percent.
One of the few bright spots has been the improvement in our balance of trade. But before we do cartwheels, consider these two facts. We are still running tens of billions on the negative side. Then, our better trade balance is destined to be ephemeral. Our stronger dollar, by about 25 percent from its low, makes us less competitive and will be reflected adversely in several months.
Taxes, under various names, are being raised at the city, state and national levels, further reducing disposable funds. One of the few boom sectors is bankruptcy law. Bankruptcies rose 20 percent in 1990 over 1989 and a horrific 50 percent for the first six months of 1991.
Instead of beating our breasts and banging our heads against the wall, what should we do? We have an option requiring bold decisions.
We have the dubious distinction of being the largest debtor nation in the world. Yet, when you owe trillions, it would not exacerbate your financial condition much to borrow the hundreds of billions for a positive remedy -- repair of our decaying infrastructure, improvement of our second-rate educational system, adoption of Jack Kemp's building program.
There are hundreds of competent business people, including those prematurely retired, who would be proud to serve on such constructive programs.
 
HERBERT BARCHOFF
New York, Nov. 6, 1991
 
The writer served on the President's Council of Economic Advisers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DESERT STORM (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); DEBTOR NATIONS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); US DOLLAR (66%); VETERANS (56%); NATIONAL DEBT (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



623 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 5; Page 43; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: The Bleu-Plate Special

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER KENNEALLY; CHRISTOPHER KENNEALLY lived and worked in Brittany this spring.

 BODY:
THE French do not necessarily eat better than Americans -- the difference lies in that they eat with deep conviction. In France, food is handled with the care usually reserved for that which is sacred, and meals are conducted like religious rituals -- thoughtfully, respectfully, but especially slowly. Even at lunch, a sort of culinary pit stop for most Americans, several courses are ceremoniously served, often concluding with both cheese and dessert. Coffee arrives long after the last dishes are cleared away.
Inevitably, especially on an extended trip, the real American longs, in spite of higher principles, to get a meal over with quickly. On the road, one begins to wish for the sort of place so common at home, where an entire meal arrives on one plate and coffee is poured even before ordering. 
 Of course, if speed is the only consideration, one could pull over at a McDonald's, which in French towns are usually on what the billboards call "McDrive." Somehow, though, that seems like cheating.
So, on an extended stay in Brittany last spring, our quest became to find a native experience, roughly the equivalent of an American truck stop. The search, however, was not easy. For one thing, there are no obvious architectural clues. The French apparently were never introduced to chrome-skinned, streamlined diner cars. In the country, modern French roadside architecture is, sadly, a monotonous collection of enormous prefabricated warehouses and hypermarkets broken up only by cinder-block bar-restaurants. The name for such a bar-restaurant -- un relais -- dates from a time when coaches would pause on their routes to change horses. The average relais is not much to look at and is usually little more than a local watering hole or whatever the French would call a dive.
In Brittany an honest-to-God truck stop would seem to be a necessity. Les routiers, the French truck drivers who ride high up in their cabs, hidden behind soccer team pennants strung across the windshields like blinds, are always racing up and down the Breton roads, hauling their loads to and from Channel ports and surely working up healthy appetites.
Trucks are common on local roads, too, because all French superhighways are expensive toll roads. Economically minded routiers haul their rigs on the four-lane nationals and even more narrow departmental roads. They made life rather anxious for anyone driving an Opel the size of a paperweight, but their presence raised considerably the chances that we would come upon a genuine truck stop.
Our patience and attention were rewarded on a departmental route outside Paimpol in Cote-du-Nord, Brittany's northernmost department. The road through the countryside was lined with dusty, newly plowed fields and lush pastures. Just after noon, we passed at a fast clip a plain, vanilla-colored, peak-roofed Bar Restaurant. The single-story building was long and massive and stood alone among the grazing cows and growing corn. The parking lot beside it was as big as a field and was neatly arranged with rows of rigs. Not much farther up the road, we made a U-turn.
All types and sizes of French trucks were there, from semis with long trailers and Citroen repair vans to the ubiquitous Renault 4, the drayhorse of French plumbers and tradespeople. In the parking lot, I began singing.
"POUR me another cup of coffee/ For it is the best in the land/ I'll put a nickel in the jukebox/ And play the 'Truck Drivin' Man.' " As I pulled the door open, I did not hear any Buck Owens playing on a jukebox. A sign advertised that the day's "menu" was available for 46 francs (at that time, about $7.50). Inside, the bar was nearly empty. A few older men sat by a window table with little glasses of red wine in their greasy fingers. Near the cash register, a middle-aged woman, peroxide blonde, exhaled smoke and waved us on into the next room.
A hallful of routiers looked up from their meals as we entered. The place was as completely male as a locker room, and my wife was regarded with suspicion -- almost certainly because she was a woman who was not carrying a tray of food.
We received directions from a pale waitress with a sweaty brow who was working the hall alone. She motioned to a cafeteria-style display of hors d'oeuvres -- pleasantly arranged plates of pungent saucisses, pate and melon -- and we were told to sit where we liked. Already we were impressed, for this was by far the quickest first course we had ever been served in France. We would not, though, be getting our meal on one plate.
The hall was rather plain, with large windows at one side that looked out on the parking lot and only a few cheap landscape paintings hanging on the walls. There was no music at all. Of course, because this was France, a smokers' paradise, a thick blue haze hung between the tables and the ceiling.
At the table beside ours, a half dozen truck drivers were in the midst of their meal. We spotted several empty wine bottles. The waitress brought the men a large tray of bread, and we were awed as they dispatched it roughly and instantly. A moment later, she returned with a tray on each muscular arm, one plate heaped with steaming boiled potatoes, the other loaded with baked turkey breasts in gravy. A wine bottle was uncorked and passed around. I had not seen food so roundly attacked since dinners at Boy Scout summer camp.
THE wine, we soon learned, was included in the price of the meal along with mineral water. We uncorked and sniffed our own bottle of Blason d'Or, a blend of red table wines, the label explained, from the countries of the European Community. The Eurowine had no discernible taste and rather quickly delivered a dull ache to the temples, but our glasses could be refilled as endlessly as coffee mugs in diners back home.
We, too, ate the baked turkey -- the other choice of the day, roast veal, was fini -- which was hot and tender and plentiful, more than we two could finish. The service was quick and, considering the waitress was outnumbered 50 to 1, cheerful. It felt good to be eating, for once, without the usual French pomp and circumstance, but the difference between a Gallic truck stop and an American one was so striking as to amount to a revelation of sorts.
For one thing, no one was eating alone at this "rendez-vous routiers" -- the proper name, we later learned, for such places. There are no solo acts in French restaurants, it would seem, not even on the road. A dusty driver could no more haul himself in there and order a piece of pie and coffee at the counter than a diner in the United States would serve a cheese course.
What is lacking in France -- without implying that the lack is a negative one -- is the culture of the road that is so much a part of American life. The windows at the rendez-vous routiers we visited subtly acknowledged that by disregarding the road entirely. At home, a diner or truck stop always has the road in view.
The road is enjoyed in America for its own sake, often by the solo traveler, a springboard for independence or merely flight. Turning their backs to the road, the French routiers we ate among had re-created home in their rendez-vous, complete with a substitute wife, overworked and unappreciated. The men ate and talked at table as family members might.
Moreover, the French are so entirely devoted to food and to eating that even at a truck stop, about as godless a dining experience as exists, they refused to lapse into culinary atheism. Our meal went on after the turkey and potatoes to include a selection of cheeses as well as dessert. The cheeses were a bit on the dry side, but the dessert -- a rum-soaked cupcake topped with a red maraschino cherry and whipped cream -- had a satisfying gooeyness. Remarkably, we knew what we were eating the entire time.
It was approaching 2 o'clock before we took the last sips of coffee. Around us, the tables now were nearly empty and a cloud of dust in the air above the parking lot was the only indication that once a crowd of empty trucks had waited there. There was still a good bit of Blason d'Or left, and we judged that we could drive safely. We walked back through the dark bar, paid up for the meals and the coffee, and hit the road.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; BRITTANY (FRANCE) UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; NYTRAVEL RESTAURANTS (89%); DRINKING PLACES (86%); FAST FOOD (78%); RELIGION (77%); TRUCK DRIVERS (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (69%); SOCCER (64%); 

PERSON: KENNEALLY, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



624 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 10; Page 5; Column 2; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: Focus: Charleston, S.C.;
For a Mansion, T.L.C. With No Plan to Sell

BYLINE: By LYN RIDDLE

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, S.C.

 BODY:
IN this city's historic Battery District, where century-old mansions grace picturesque streets at river's edge, the din of hammering and sawing has become as much a part of life as gawking tourists in horse-drawn carriages.
But for Edward L. Henning, the sounds soon will cease. After four years, the restoration of his Italianate mansion at 21 King Street, a block from Charleston Harbor, is now only two rooms shy of completion. 
 He won't say what the work has cost him, but the word about town is that the bill approaches $2.5 million, not including the $625,000 he paid for the 12,000-square-foot, 140-year-old house in 1987. The restoration, which has involved about 60 craftsmen, is expected to be completed early next year, Mr. Henning said.
History buffs and preservationists call it the grandest remake ever of a private home in South Carolina.
And they praise Mr. Henning, who is a McDonald's restaurant franchisee, for turning a lackluster antebellum relic into an elegant heirloom.
Unlike some who have bought historic properties to fix and sell at a profit, Mr. Henning has no plans to sell his. And that is what the market needs badly, brokers say: More Mr. Hennings to take advantage of the glut in grand old houses -- there have never been so many for sale at one time -- sink money into them, and not plan to resell any time soon.
In the area where Mr. Henning lives, five houses are on the market now, joining numerous others in the surrounding downtown neighborhoods.
Vic Brandt, a broker who specializes in selling houses in the Battery area, said the market is glutted for two reasons: repairs from the disastrous Hurricane Hugo in 1989 have delayed sales and the recession has restricted the real estate market overall.
One notable house for sale is the Battery Carriage House, a well-known inn with an asking price of $3 million. It is across the street from White Point Gardens, a park, better known as the Battery, at the tip of the peninsula where the Ashley and Cooper Rivers meet.
The inn -- it was used in the television miniseries "North/South" -- has 11 rooms plus a 9,500-square-foot residence at the rear. Mr. Brandt estimates it could take $1 million to repair the damage left by the four feet of water swept inside by Hurricane Hugo and other rain damage.
OTHER homes now offered for sale are held by empty-nesters or widows who want smaller residences. They include a 181-year-old house covering 5,100 square feet with an asking price $1.95 million and a 6,230-square-foot house built in 1768 by a cousin of George Washington. The asking price for that house, which faces Charleston Harbor, is $1.7 million.
The cost of the historic mansions here has remained relatively low, although most are now over $1 million, Mr. Brandt said. As recently as 1983, a 10,000-square-foot Baroque-style mansion built in 1850 on East Battery (along the Cooper River) sold for $315,000.
"Before 1985, they were viewed as white elephants," said Mr. Brandt.
Prices have edged upward primarily because of the newcomers who move here, attracted by Charleston's mild climate (average temperature 65 degrees), diversified economy and low real estate costs, said Mr. Brandt. Many sold high-priced homes in the Northeast and bring with them the means for serious renovations. Half of the mansion buyers here pay cash.
In January, an English couple bought a museum-quality Georgian house for just over $1 million. And last year the New York art dealer Andrew Crispo spent $2 million for his 1802 "pineapple-gate" mansion, the most ever paid for a house in Charleston, Mr. Brandt said.
Charlestonians say Mr. Henning's accomplishment stands out even in a city known for historic preservation and for the extensive restoration work it has had to do in the two years since Hurricane Hugo swept through. Charleston is South Carolina's oldest city and in 1931 it became the first in the nation to pass a historic preservation ordinance.
Most of the 42 houses in the Battery District, which looks out on Fort Sumter about three miles to the southeast in the harbor, were damaged by the hurricane. The venerable homes withstood the storm's high winds but were brutalized by the ensuing rains that poured into damaged roofs.
The hurricane set Mr. Henning back a year. Water damaged the interior, which had been stripped of paint but not yet repainted, and the wind furiously shook three stories of newly built porches.
But the poor condition of the house after the hurricane did not exceed what Mr. Henning found when he bought it.
"This house was a total wreck," he said. "It had not been fixed up in 75 to 100 years."
Like most people who undertake a renovation, the 54-year-old Mr. Henning soon found it all-consuming. Time and money flowed out like blood from a wound.
BUT he faced problems most renovators don't: He stripped 50 coats of paint from the walls. Nearly 2,000 pieces of molding at the roof line needed replacing. Plaster ceilings were reworked and elaborate door fixtures repaired.
"Every room in the house had to be redone," said Mr. Henning, who owns 14 McDonald's restaurants in the area. "And since they don't usually do this type of work, most of the craftsmen had to learn how. We kept digging and digging until we could go no further."
The library ceiling's elaborate detail was redone five times, Mr. Henning said.
"The house demands this quality," he said. "It's not a palace, but for architectural detail, there's nothing like it here."
THE house was built over nine years by Patrick O'Donnell, a master builder, as a home for himself and his future bride. But as sometimes happens, the fiancee grew tired of waiting and married someone else. The house became known as "O'Donnell's Folly," a name that has stuck.
The three-story house, the largest on the street, fills its a narrow lot. A sweeping staircase rises from the entranceway, with two formal ballrooms on the left, a dining room, library and kitchen at the rear.
As in most houses of the mid-19th century, the reception rooms on the first floor are taller and grander than the bedrooms on the two upper floors.
The ceiling designs and other ornamental features have been painted to bring out the intricate patterns.
Moldings, too, are painted in several colors to highlight the detail.
"God, I don't want to do this again," said Mr. Henning. "But it's very difficult not to develop an affection for this place. It's incredible."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Edward L. Henning outside his Italianate mansion on King Street. His renovation there is almost over. (Lyn Riddle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (55%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CHARLESTON (SC) UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); HISTORY (73%); FRANCHISING (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (71%); RESTAURANTS (67%); EMPTY NESTERS (65%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: RIDDLE, LYN; HENNING, EDWARD L

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



625 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 2; Page 36; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: ARCHITECTURE VIEW;
'Edge Cities': The People's Answer to Planners

BYLINE: By Witold Rybczynski; Witold Rybczynski, the author of "Waiting for the Weekend," is a professor of architecture at McGill University in Montreal.

 BODY:
Many would argue that "North American city planning" is an oxymoron. After all, the typical American city exhibits few of the physical features generally associated with the traditional planned cities of Europe. There are exceptions -- the squared quadrants of Philadelphia and Savannah, the ceremonial axes of Washington, the formal civic parks of New York and Chicago -- but these only underline the fact that the regularly gridded cities of Canada and the United States appear to owe more to the surveyor than to the city planner.
 And whether one looks down from an airplane or out from a moving car, not even the street grid is enough to dispel the impression that the development of most cities has been casual, almost haphazard. No overpowering vision seems to have guided their evolution -- like Topsy, they just grew. 
 Not that North American cities lack form, but their shape seems to be the result less of the resolution of an individual's will -- of a Peter the Great, a John Nash or a Baron Haussmann -- than of anonymous, pragmatic decisions to build railroads, highways, or factories. To understand the shape of the American city one has to appreciate the ripple effect of technologies like the commuter train, the automobile, steel frame construction and the elevator.
 And what about the influence of master plans? One has to go back to the turn-of-the-century City Beautiful movement and Daniel Burnham's ambitious plan for Chicago, which inspired downtown civic centers in cities like San Francisco, Cleveland and Pasadena, to find a time when the physical form of American cities was shaped by artistic considerations. Houston, which tripled in population between 1970 and 1980, is infamous among planners as the only major American city that has grown without the benefit of zoning regulations, that is, without one of the chief tools of the city planner. What is striking about Houston, however, is not how different it looks but how familiar. Like most other North American cities, Houston is the expression, by and large, not of an esthetic ideal but of economic forces.
 Perhaps that explains why the most insightful texts on city planning have been written by observers rather than practitioners. In Europe, the authors are professional planners like Camillo Sitte and Patrick Geddes, or in the case of Rob Krier's "Urban Space," an architect. In America, they are social critics like Lewis Mumford, Jane Jacobs, Herbert Gans and William H. Whyte, or by essayists like Tom Wolfe and Richard Sennett. Not that American planners and architects haven't addressed the subject, but their proposals have usually seemed slightly irrelevant and beside the point, and just about as useful as a copy of the Larousse Gastronomique would be to a short-order cook in a roadside hash house.
 "Learning From Las Vegas," a 1972 book by Robert Venturi, Denise Scott Brown and Steven Izenour, did try to grapple with the architectural implications of unbridled, commercial urban growth, but one was never sure if the authors were really embracing their subject or merely using it as an unlikely source of formal -- and ironic -- inspiration, which is not quite the same thing. Yet even such a mild manifesto as "Learning From Las Vegas" was anathema to most planners, architects and other design professionals, who generally deplored the commercial forces that were shaping the city.
 The prejudices of planners and architects -- cars are bad, density is good -- put them at odds with the general American public, which believes the exact opposite. And although planners are aware of the suburbs, they assume that these outlying areas can be ignored since they will always be dependent on the traditional city center, whose revitalization has remained the focus of architectural attention. As for a city like Los Angeles, which appears to be following a different path, it is scornfully disregarded as a Southern Californian aberration -- "Isn't San Francisco so much nicer?"
 In fact, as Joel Garreau points out in his new book, "Edge City: Life on the New Frontier," every single American city that is growing today is growing precisely in the fashion of Los Angeles, with multiple urban centers at some distance from the old downtown. What Mr. Garreau (a journalist, not a planner) calls "edge cities" usually begin as a shopping mall at the intersection of two interstate highways. The mall gets bigger, office space is added, a hotel; several corporations establish their headquarters nearby (conveniently close to a regional airport, which also expands). Employees need housing, and housing means schools, community centers, golf courses and medical facilities. Pretty soon, the intersection of two highways (which may still have no formal name -- Mr. Garreau refers to an edge city in New Jersey as "287 & 78") is providing jobs and retail services for thousands of people.
 On paper, then, these centers have most of the attributes of cities (employment, stores, entertainment); on the ground, they are completely unlike any traditional idea of the city. They are spread out, which is why they are often confused with suburbs. Instead of streets and blocks, there are highways, parking lots and vast interior malls (although often referred to as shopping malls, these are really pedestrian mini-cities).
 Towns have always been built in response to transportation technology, whether it was the clipper ship, the canal barge or the railroad. Obviously, it is the automobile that has produced the low-density edge city (as it did Frank Lloyd Wright's theoretical proposal for Broadacre City), but as Mr. Garreau notes, two other technologies have also played an important role: the jet plane and the computer. The ability to move people and information quickly from one place to another has enabled corporations to radically decentralize their operations, relocating their headquarters and most of their staff from the downtowns and into the country.
 In the last 30 years, this migration has produced peripheral centers on the edges of Los Angeles, Houston, Atlanta, Toronto, Montreal, New York, Boston, Washington and San Francisco. Indeed, almost all urban growth now takes place in these peripheral cities. And they are big: Houston's Galleria is larger than downtown Minneapolis; Fairfax County, Va., the site of several centers, now has a greater population than adjacent Washington.
 All this adds up to what is probably the most vigorous period of city-building in the last hundred years. And yet, Mr. Garreau's insightful book apart, it is going on largely unremarked. Perhaps that is inevitable. We often appreciate cities most when they are, so to speak, in their dotage, forgetting that even such charming places as Venice and London were, at one time, raw, unrefined and immature, centers of commerce rather than culture. And while the American edge cities are, for the moment, singularly bereft of visual charm, who is to say that these awkward teen-agers will not also one day grow into engaging adults?

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Galleria, on the edge of Houston--What is striking about Houston is not how different it looks but how familiar. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (78%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (78%); TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ZONING (78%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (66%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (66%); TRAINS (66%); WRITERS (65%); 

PERSON: RYBCZYNSKI, WITOLD SCOTT BROWN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



626 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 17, 1991

SECTION: Section 3; Page 29; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Life;
A Little Light Magic Gets the Word Out

BYLINE: By Nancy Marx Better

 BODY:
Relocating offices is never easy and a slumping economy makes it even worse. That's why, when a big insurance company decided to relocate 300 executives from New York to Hartford earlier this year, it hired Bill Herz to help.
Mr. Herz didn't provide psychological counseling for executives afraid of the transition or professional guidance for their spouses. No. He did tricks. Magic tricks. And now the company does not even want him to mention its name because if shareholders were to find out, they might consider it frivolous in light of further bad news it plans to announce soon. But magic, according to Mr. Herz, serves a purpose. Although it may not make executives want to move, he said, "it cushions the blow." 
 Mr. Herz has been doing a lot of that lately as the blows -- from lower earnings, layoffs, all sorts of financial troubles -- strike deeper and harder into the country's corporate landscape. Indeed, Mr. Herz has become something of a corporate Cassandra: chances are, if he appears on the scene, the company has bad news to convey. Mr. Herz may herald a relocation, a merger or a takeover. He may augur disappointing fiscal results or a cost-cutting program.
"Magic can add levity to a tense situation," said the 35-year-old Mr. Herz, who holds an M.B.A. from Cornell and a certificate from the National Canadian Mime School. "It's a way of communicating difficult messages."
Take the recent merger of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and NCR. After the deal, Mr. Herz was hired for a company sales conference to perform tricks with a "teamwork" theme. One involved shuffling an oversized deck of cards and then cutting it diagonally with scissors; when two randomly chosen halves were fitted together, they formed a perfect whole. "The atmosphere was incredibly nervous," Mr. Herz said. "I had to relax the audience, so management could discuss how the combined sales force would operate."
Yet experts caution against confusing illusion with delusion. "If people are dealing with bad news, they shouldn't be patronized," said Marilyn Puder-York, a New York executive psychologist. "Their fears shouldn't be given a superficial response."
Indeed, corporate America hardly seems in the mood for magic. In the wake of the insider trading and banking scandals, words like "hoax" and "deceit" are not exactly welcome. "Everyone's so concerned with ethics now," said Dr. Puder-York. "People don't want to be associated with any sort of misrepresentation."
Still, Mr. Herz is betting that plenty of executives wouldn't mind having a few tricks up their sleeve. The excessive 80's may be over, but companies still want gimmicks to motivate employees. Mr. Herz's business is better than ever; he expects to serve more than 300 corporate clients in 1991, up from 30 in 1987, when he entered the market.
In the first week of November, for example, he said he worked for General Foods, Rubbermaid, A.T.& T., First Boston and MCI Communications. This may be because his services -- ranging from $1,000 for a couple of simple card tricks to $100,000 for a full-scale production -- are cheaper than other options, like rock stars and celebrities, that companies use to introduce products and entertain clients.
His first book, "Secrets of the Astonishing Executive," hits the shelves this month. This volume -- which contains tricks like the "Extra-Special Mind-Reading Rolodex" and the "Forget-Me-Not Business Card Handout" -- comes laden with testimonials from prominent executives.
"Corporate bullies won't kick sand in your face after you master a few tricks," exhorts E. James Morton, chairman of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company. "These techniques turn ordinary executives into artists who thrill and baffle," claims Bert C. Roberts Jr., president of MCI.
But several of the tricks in Mr. Herz's book conjure up dubious images. Take the "Just-Sign-Here Instant Approval Kit," which involves getting the boss's signature on a birthday card for a colleague -- and then forging it on a memo to the personnel department requesting a raise. Or the "Crispy Currency Ice Breaker," which involves doctoring dollar bills to "break the ice" with a difficult client.
Mr. Herz admits that his more wily devices might not be entirely appropriate in the executive suite. "Magic shouldn't insult or offend anybody," he said. "It should be a humanizing factor."
Some executives use Mr. Herz's tricks to demonstrate hard-to-grasp concepts. As director of A.T.& T.'s center for executive education, George Ort recently gave a presentation entitled, "The importance of perfect execution in large-scale decision-making." To illustrate this notion, he asked a client to choose a card from a deck. He then announced that he had a card inside his suit jacket -- in a sealed envelope -- with exactly half the value of the chosen card. When the client drew the seven of clubs, Mr. Ort revealed his card -- the three-and-a-half of clubs. "My point was, you can't afford to be half right when making big decisions," Mr. Ort said. "People really remembered the trick -- and my point."
Then there are those executives who use magic to enhance their image, rather than their business. Mel Feinberg, vice president of New York Life Insurance, asked Mr. Herz to teach him a few tricks for a conference last spring.
"When it comes to actuaries, we don't have a reputation as being too entertaining," Mr. Feinberg said. "Doing magic helps lighten the atmosphere."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; MAGIC AND MAGICIANS EMPLOYEE RELOCATIONS (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); MERGERS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); SALES & SELLING (76%); INSIDER TRADING (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); ETHICS (60%); SCANDALS (60%); 

PERSON: HERZ, BILL; BETTER, NANCY MARX

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1991



627 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Knight-Ridder Faces a Newspaper Puzzle

BYLINE: By ALEX S. JONES

 BODY:
A year after Knight-Ridder Inc. reinvented The Boca Raton News in Florida as a newspaper calculated to appeal to baby boomers, the results are both heartening and frustrating.
Readers overwhelmingly approve of many of The News's innovations, including a rigorously enforced prohibition against having articles continue on another page. According to an April survey by the Simmons Market Research Bureau, 91 percent of The News's readers "mainly like" that particular change. 
 Readers were just as smitten with the heavy use of national, world and local maps that accompany virtually every article of importance, and 97 percent endorsed the paper's rigid determination to have specific types of news and features in the same place in the paper every day.
 
Seeking Long-Term Gains
 But what remains unclear is whether increased reader satisfaction with The News, which seems unmistakable, will translate into long-term circulation gains and whether occasional News readers can be turned into regular readers by tailoring a newspaper to reader tastes.
"We know the satisfaction is good, and now we are watching to see whether it makes people read and buy," said Bill Baker, vice president for news for Knight-Ridder, which owns 28 daily newspapers including The Miami Herald and The Philadelphia Inquirer.
The News must also resolve whether advertisers or readers have a higher priority; one innovation in classified advertising delighted readers, but alienated some advertisers.
Indeed, what is happening at The Boca Raton News is a subject of intense interest throughout the newspaper industry as papers struggle to attract the young readers who are essential to the future. Total newspaper circulation has been frozen at about 62 million for more than 20 years as the population has steadily grown.
 
Industry's Worst Nightmare
 The News experiment is particularly important because it baldly addresses the industry's worst nightmare: that people can like a newspaper, find it enjoyable and useful and accessible, and still not read it with any degree of regularity for such reasons as a lack of time.
Mr. Baker said The News's circulation jumped more than 20 percent in the first three months after the new design was introduced in October 1990 with a big promotional effort. But he said the rate of increase had steadily slowed. The paper has a paid daily circulation of about 24,000 and Sunday circulation of about 25,000, and also distributes several thousand free copies each day.
The residents of Boca Raton and Boca Raton West, perched on the southern border of Palm Beach County, are highly educated and affluent. Advertising sales material for The News notes, "This is the No. 1 market in the U.S. for per-capita ownership of luxury cars."
But this attractive audience has drawn furious competition from larger papers. Indeed, The Fort Lauderdale Sun-Sentinel's circulation in South Palm Beach County is about a third higher than that of The News. Thomas P. O'Donnell, publisher of The Sun-Sentinel, said the edition of his paper zoned for that area has shown as much circulation growth in the last year as has The News. The Palm Beach Post and The Miami Herald also circulate in the area.
And a News innovation that is very popular with readers may have cost it dearly with classified advertisers.
A year ago, The News began listing such things as rental apartments, condominiums for sale and used cars in a grid that allowed readers to compare what was offered more easily. For instance, all the used BMW 715's were listed together in descending order by model year and then by price.
The survey found that 87 percent of readers loved the grids.
But some advertisers did not.
Clement C. Winke, Jr., publisher of The News, said apartment rental agencies were particularly unhappy, because their classified ads for all kinds of apartments are calculated to prompt calls of inquiry. A prospective renter whose eye was caught by an ad for a modest apartment can then be encouraged to spend a little more to get one with a pool.
Effectively, the girds turned renters into much more informed consumers by making price comparisons easier.
"The grids were a real reader benefit, but a real estate advertising disaster," said Mr. O'Donnell, who added that The Sun-Sentinel's classified advertising in the South Palm Beach County edition had increased 82 percent compared with a year ago. Mr. O'Donnell credits advertiser animosity toward The News's grids for much of his paper's gains.
Mr. Baker said The News's classified advertising was about where it was expected to be in an economic downturn, but did not give specifics.
But he said The News would stick with the grid classifieds for at least another year because advertisers were beginning to grasp that their popularity with readers was drawing an increased audience.
The process of shaping The News has been a combination of listening to readers and involving the paper's staff, especially the news staff, by having them observe focus groups of readers critiquing various prototypes and then holding discussions to address reader complaints.
This process, he said, had convinced many previously skeptical reporters and editors of "the need to broaden the definition of news," words that to many journalists have been shorthand for pandering to readers and turning away from serious news coverage.
In focus groups, readers complained that they wanted serious news, but in a form that they found appealing and illuminating. In general, this meant personalizing the news and expanding coverage into new areas.
For instance, Mr. Baker said The News now covers the local I.B.M. plant, which is a leading employer, as an ongoing news story with issues of policy and corporate intrigue that can have a big local impact.
And dispute over education policy might now be covered not as a dry analysis, but through a profile of a particular school principal who has strong views on the issue.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The classified advertising grid in The Boca Raton News is very popular with its readers, but many advertisers dislike it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOCA RATON (FLA) NEWS MCCLATCHY CO (96%); SIMMONS MARKET RESEARCH BUREAU INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOCA RATON (FLA) NEWS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); FORT LAUDERDALE, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; NEWSPAPERS PAID CIRCULATION (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: JONES, ALEX S GREG KNIGHT (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



628 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Hard-Hitting Spots Assail Clothing and Textile Imports

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
AMERICAN consumers will find a large lump of coal being put in their Christmas stockings by an organization seeking to insure that those stockings bear labels reading "Made in U.S.A."
In television commercials running from today through Dec. 15, the Crafted with Pride in U.S.A. Council Inc., the trade organization representing apparel, fiber and textile manufacturers, is undertaking its hardest-hitting, highest-budgeted campaign against the flood of imported merchandise that has decimated the operations of its more than 500 members. 
 The spots' deliberately downbeat images are meant to convince viewers of a direct relationship between the purchase of imports and the 581,480 jobs that the council says its industries have lost since 1980. The 15- and 30-second doses of gloom and doom contrast starkly with the cheery commercialism that greets consumers during the Christmas shopping season.
"These are not feel-good commercials, intended to make people feel jolly," Madeline Lewis, senior vice president of Warwick Baker & Fiore, the council's advertising agency, said last week. "This is a time of year when people are finding what they can and can't afford to give their loved ones. So the notion that you can't afford to give the people you love a future hits hard."
That is an intensely more serious, and ominous, message than was delivered by Warwick's previous campaigns. From 1985 to 1989, warm and fuzzy spots featured celebrities like Bob Hope revealing "Made in U.S.A." labels inside their clothing and on their towels and sheets.
The accelerating loss of jobs at member companies led the council to ask Warwick to alter the campaign's direction for 1990. So tougher spots showed a textile plant closing and a mother telling her young son that because "a lot of people are buying clothes made in other countries, not ours," Dad had lost his job and the family must move.
But research indicated that the council still "wasn't telling our story effectively enough," said Robert E. Swift, its executive director.
One key ifference is that the new spots convey an idea that individuals "don't have to wait for somebody else to take action, that they can help," by changing their buying habits, said Susan Small-Weil, executive vice president at Warwick.
This thought is taken to its logical conclusion, she added, "that if they don't, somebody else won't, and they have to take responsibility for that."
One spot depicts an apparently endless line of unemployed people, slowly moving into a building. A stern-voiced announcer identifies them as the Americans who have "lost their jobs because we don't realize the impact of buying imported goods." They are all waiting to see a lone clerk at a window labeled "Unemployment." The clerk mutters, "Next" -- a device that viewers are supposed to interpret to mean they, too, could be next to be discharged, Ms. Small-Weil said.
In a second spot, men, women and children on a pier watch a crate stenciled "Imported" being unloaded. The announcer says that "because we're buying so many imports," the nation is "in danger of losing the U.S. apparel and home-fashions industry."
"And the worst part is," he adds, "we're doing this to ourselves."
Testing the spots before their introduction, Mr. Swift said, the council and Warwick found that among the primary target market, women aged 25 to 49, an important measurement of effectiveness soared to a range of 68 to 69 percent, from 35 percent to 40 percent for the previous campaign.
So the budget for this campaign will exceed the council's average ad spending, he added, which over the last three years has totaled $40 million. That money will buy time during programs primarily watched by women on broadcast and cable networks, from daytime soap operas like CBS's "The Young and the Restless" to nighttime soaps like ABC's "Homefront" to the "Holiday Movie Classics" on the cable superstation WTBS.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A commercial produced by the Crafted with Pride in U.S.A. Council depicting an endless line of unemployed people identified as American garment workers who have lost their jobs because of competition from imports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: CRAFTED WITH PRIDE IN THE USA COUNCIL; WARWICK BAKER & FIORE

ORGANIZATION: CRAFTED WITH PRIDE IN THE USA COUNCIL; WARWICK BAKER & FIORE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; LAYOFFS (LABOR); APPAREL; TEXTILES; LABOR TEXTILES (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); DISMISSALS (88%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); TEXTILE MFG (76%); TEXTILE MILLS (76%); FABRIC MILLS (76%); APPAREL MFG (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); FIBERS (71%); CLOSINGS (67%); 

PERSON: LESLIE TOWNES 'BOB' HOPE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



629 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Issue by New York City To Cut Borrowing Costs

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
For the better part of three years, City Hall in lower Manhattan has not been a fount of good economic news. This week, however, some should trickle out.
New York City is expected to offer investors $1.21 billion worth of uninsured general obligation bonds tomorrow. The negotiated sale itself is not noteworthy, since New York is by far the nation's largest issuer of tax-exempt debt securities, but this issue is different: over the 30 years it will cut the city's borrowing costs by well over $100 million. 
 Using a plan conceived by public finance specialists at J. P. Morgan Securities Inc., proceeds from the financing will be used for the nullification, or defeasance, of outstanding bonds backed by insurance companies or commercial letters of credit.
Through such a defeasance, a process by which payment of interest and principal will come from a pool of Treasury securities rather than from the city, New York will be able to issue more bonds backed by insurance companies or bank letters of credit.
Borrowings that carry such guarantees are rated triple-A and are generally sold at interest rates as much as a percentage point lower than uninsured debt securities.
Insurers have been unwilling to provide backing for new New York City bonds because their exposure is already enormous: $2.5 billion worth of outstanding city securities are covered by insurance. This issue will cut that exposure by a little more than 40 percent.
"When we focused in on the city and its problems, it was obvious that they had a capacity problem," said Eric H. Altman, a managing director at J. P. Morgan. "The logical thing to do seemed to be to get it off the books of the credit enhancers by defeasing the securities."
Sally Hernandez-Pinero, Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, said, "It's good news, but it is hard to convey to a general audience."
Soon -- probably next month -- the city will be able to take advantage of new credit-enhancing guarantees from bond insurance firms and banks by issuing variable-rate bonds. Interest rates on these securities could be adjusted as often as daily and generally require backing from banks. But they can be sold with interest rates as low as 2 percent or 3 percent, analysts said.
The move to pare borrowing costs will help improve the city's financial fortunes, but only at the margin, because enormous problems remain.
The metropolitan region remains mired in a recession and wrangling continues over ways to streamline a four-year financial plan in order to obtain $1 billion in additional assistance from the Municipal Assistance Corporation.
Mindful of these realities, the Standard & Poor's Corporation has assigned an A- rating to the city bond offering. A rating of Baa-1 is expected from Moody's Investors Service Inc.
Talk in the market in advance of the sale put a maximum yield on the securities to be sold at around 7.75 percent, well under the 8.10 percent yield on 30-year bonds sold by the city in early August.
"The city's timing is very good in terms of the direction of interest rates," said Neil G. Budnick, a senior vice president at the Municipal Bond Investors Assurance Corporation. "And while New York is not the highest-tier creidt, it still has positive credit fundamentals."
 
A Busy Municipal Market
 The New York City sale is a focal point in what looks to be the most active week in the municipal bond market in years.
Between $8 billion and $8.5 billion worth of new tax-exempt issues are expected to be priced this week.
Like New York City, this week the New Jersey Turnpike Authority will be seeking to lower its financing costs when it refunds $1.6 billion of 7.20 percent securities originally issued in 1985.
The securities are rated A by both Moody's and S.& P.
Reflecting the higher ratings the authority has over New York City, price talk in advance of the issue put a maximum yield on the securities at somewhere between 6.625 percent and 6.75 percent.
This week's activity will add to what has already been very heavy volume of new tax-exempt securities this year.
Through last Thursday, more than $179 billion worth of new municipal securities, both new financings and refunding issues, was brought to market this year, according to figures from the Securities Data Company. For all of 1990, the total was $163.5 billion.
For both issuers and investors "one thing has been driving the municipal market more than anything else this year," said George D. Friedlander, a managing director at Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. "And that is the collapse of short-term rates."
Because of the sharp decline in interest rates on instruments like bank certificates of deposit, "demand for intermediate to long-term municipal bonds is up enormously," Mr. Friedlander said, "and it is not going away anytime soon."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (60%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CITIES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



630 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: An Anxious Oil Industry Meets

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The American Petroleum Institute expects that when it opens its annual meeting here on Monday, attendance will be better than in any year since 1985, with about 2,000 drillers, refiners, distributors and retailers gathering to talk business.
Despite the promising turnout, the industry gathers with a number of dark clouds overhead. 
 The Clean Air Act and state initiatives to clean the air mean new challenges for refiners, some not yet clearly defined. New legislation on oil tankers poses financial burdens. Legislation to give the industry its most cherished goal, permission to drill in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, was recently defeated in the Senate before it could even reach the floor for debate.
 
'Not a Cheerful Year'
 Though the price of oil is up a bit from the days before the Persian Gulf war, many analysts say it is disappointingly low, given that Iraq, normally the world's third-largest exporter, is out of the market. In addition, Kuwait's shipments are far short of the prewar level, and the Soviet Union seems likely to ship less in coming months.
Many people think the price is poised to decline. "This is not a cheerful year, altogether," said John H. Lichtblau, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York.
Charles DiBona, the president of the American Petroleum Institute, was even less sanguine. In a telephone interview at the institute's headquarters in Washington, before he left for the meeting, he said that all things considered, the situation was "bad, bad, bad."
 
A Plunge in Profitability
 "The economics are just a disaster," Mr. DiBona said. "The price of crude's gone up a little, but all of the margins on the downstream are as low as they've ever been," a reference to the profit margins for refining and marketing petroleum.
He added: "The profitability of the companies has plunged. They're all cutting back staff again."
In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Friday, crude oil closed at $22.79 cents a barrel for December delivery, up 27 cents, on news that the Russian republic will block some exports. Comparisons with last year are not meaningful because at the time of the last meeting, a year ago, Iraq was occupying Kuwait and threatening to occupy Saudi Arabia. The price then was about $10 a barrel higher.
Most oil companies are looking ahead, not back, however, and many traders are worried that inventories are high and that the recession is lingering. Eventually, Iraq and Kuwait will re-enter the market, perhaps producing more than they were before the war, adding even more supplies.
In the past, prices have been propped up by Saudi Arabia's willingness to keep some capacity idle, but since the war the Saudis have worked to increase their capacity, stressing their need for oil revenue. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is scheduled to meet on Nov. 26 in Vienna, but almost no one expects the group to announce plans to restrict production to below the current level of 23.65 million barrels a day.
There are some countervailing factors. The Oil and Gas Journal, an authoritative trade publication, predicted last week that demand for heating fuels would rise substantially this winter. The American Midwest has had record cold temperatures recently. And the magazine noted that last year the East, where most heating oil is used, had an unusually mild winter. In addition, prices were higher last year, depressing consumption.
 
Russians Rubbing Elbows
 Attendance is likely to be up in Houston, because at least for now, the price of oil is a bit stronger. This year, the convention is in the heart of the oil patch, and the featured speaker is Margaret Thatcher, the former Prime Minister of Britain, a major oil producer.
Also expected this year are about 50 Russians. "They're probably just trying to rub elbows," Mr. DiBona said. "We don't have anything planned for them."
In fact, the Russians appear to have a great deal planned, with many hours of meetings set up with Americans in three conference rooms at a hotel near the conference headquarters.
Russia, which produces more than 90 percent of the Soviet Union's oil and gas, has recently approved joint ventures in both production and refining and seems to be shopping for more. Mr. DiBona said American companies were looking for places to drill, since "what we're being told by the public of the U.S. is, we should go abroad, import more oil, and not produce in the U.S."
 
One Enemy Is Uncertainty
 Smarting over the loss, at least for now, of permission to drill in Alaska, and over restrictions in California waters and on other offshore projects, Mr. DiBona said, "Every other country in the world is dashing around, begging U.S. companies to help develop oil and gas."
At the other end of the industry are refiners, who will face a new, as-yet-undefined standard for gasoline in dozens of major markets in coming years. Refiners here will compare notes on what specifications are likely and how they would produce such fuel.
Refinery experts say that billions of dollars in investment will be required. Mr. Lichtblau says that most refineries think about the performance of new equipment over a 25-year period, but that with natural gas, methanol, electricity and other transportation fuels on the horizon, "it isn't clear that 25 years from now, gasoline consumption won't be on the decline."
"There is an awful lot of uncertainty," he said, "and that is one of the worst enemies -- uncertainty."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (93%); ARCTIC (88%); GULF STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (94%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (94%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE; ALASKA UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); KUWAIT (93%); ARCTIC (88%); GULF STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; AIR POLLUTION; AUTOMOBILES; WATER POLLUTION PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); AIR QUALITY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); DESERT STORM (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); WILDLIFE (55%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



631 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Effort to Cap Credit Card Rates Is Attacked

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
The Bush Administration mounted an attack today on a measure to limit credit card interest rates, which was approved in the Senate last week with little debate.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said that the proposal was "wacky" and that it had caused the sharp decline in stock prices on Friday. Vice President Dan Quayle predicted that the President would veto the measure if it won approval from both houses of Congress. 
 The measure was introduced by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, and Mr. Brady used unusually sharp language in criticizing the action of another Republican.
 
'Wacky, Senseless'
 "I think the legislation that was passed earlier in the week with only 30 minutes' discussion disturbs people who think about the market," Mr. Brady said today on "Meet the Press," the NBC News program. "In other words, they expect our governmental bodies to be considered, quiet and sensible. This is wacky, senseless legislation, and when it goes through quickly, people wonder."
The drop in the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday, he said, "was in reaction to the very quick passage through the Senate of the credit card legislation." The Dow fell 120.31 points, or nearly 4 percent.
In a separate appearance later on the same program, Senator D'Amato was asked if he agreed that his legislation was "wacky." He replied, "It certainly is not."
Mr. D'Amato said that as many people were facing economic hardship, they were not benefiting from lower credit card interest charges, even though other interest rates, like the discount and prime rates, were declining.
He said he introduced the legislation because there was no competition among banks to force down credit card rates.
"There's no free market," he said. "They're charging 19.80 -- right to the decimal -- 19.80, 7 of the largest 10" banks.
Mr. D'Amato added, "If there was competition, this legislation wouldn't be necessary." He said the support his measure enjoyed could be seen in its passage by a vote of 74 to 19.
Mr. Brady asserted that if banks were forced to reduce the rates they charge credit card customers, they would issue cards only to higher-income people, whom they would consider most likely to pay their bills.
"This legislation is bound to result in credit cards which are elitist," Mr. Brady said. "If this legislation went through, the only people that'd have credit cards would be the rich people in this country."
Mr. D'Amato disagreed. "It's not elitist," he said, asserting that under the current system, "people who are credit addicts who shouldn't be getting credit" were being given credit cards by banks.
As a result, he said, "you have working, middle class people paying enormous, enormous rates to make the banks profitable."
The Senator said it was "nonsense" and "ridiculous" to attribute the decline in stock prices to the credit card measure. Rather, he said, the contributing factors included the "triple-witching hour, when the options were exercised, and when the biotech stocks led the decline."
In fact, a triple-witching hour, when stock options, futures contracts and index options all expire, often resulting in stock-price volatility, did not occur on Friday. But Friday was the expiration date for futures and options contracts tied to the Major Market Index, a widely followed market barometer. This occurrence is known on Wall Street as a "double-witching hour."
 
Quayle's Skepticism
 Vice President Quayle, who appeared today on the ABC News program, "This Week With David Brinkley," said of the D'Amato measure: "I'm not sure the Congress will pass it now, after what happened to the stock market Friday. Congress likes to have both sides of an issue, and this is a perfect case for them, because now they're on record one week supporting a cap and the next week they'll say, 'Oh, well, we really didn't want to have the stock market react like this.' "
Mr. Quayle added: "Furthermore, there was no debate on this issue. We didn't realize that millions of people would lose their credit cards if we pass this legislation."
Asked whether President Bush would veto the measure, Mr. Quayle said, "I am confident that the President will make sure that this does not become law, and if that requires a veto, so be it."
Mr. Quayle also asserted that the move to cap credit card rates "was certainly a factor" in the stock market decline.
 
Seidman Opposes Bill
 L. William Seidman, who recently stepped down as the chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, also appeared on the NBC program and said a limit on the interest banks could charge for credit cards "perhaps would be something to look at" if banks "were making a huge amount of money."
But, he said: "They're not. They're in weakened condition, and a stronger bank is what we need to get out of this recession.
"All we need is to have something else hit the banks now to help us move deeper into a recession. So I think this is a bad idea any time, but is a very bad idea right now."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION CREDIT CARDS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); VETO (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (60%); 

PERSON: MOLOTSKY, IRVIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) ALFONSE M D'AMATO (92%); JAMES DANFORTH 'DAN' QUAYLE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



632 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 147 words

HEADLINE: Few New Jobs Seen by Panel

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
The lackluster economic recovery expected next year will create few new jobs, the Conference Board, a business-oriented research group, said in a report released yesterday.
The group's Human Resources Outlook Panel said unemployment was expected to average 6.8 percent of the work force in the first six months of 1992. The national unemployment rate was 6.8 percent in October, according to the Labor Department. 
 The panel predicted that the rate would fall slightly, to 6.6 percent, in the third quarter and slip to 6.5 percent in the last three months of the year.
The Conference Board said that most of its panelists thought the worst of the recession had passed and that the economy "could be positioning itself for longer, more sustained growth ahead."
"The panel's confidence is linked to a belief that the American economy is knuckling down to work," it said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD CONFERENCE BOARD INC (86%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (88%); RECESSION (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); HUMAN RESOURCES (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



633 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Buyer Sought For a Magazine

 BODY:
New York Woman, a five- year-old magazine aimed at sophisticated young New York women, has been put up for sale by the American Express Publishing Corporation. The magazine has been struggling recently because of sagging advertising revenues.
"It's true that it is up for sale," said Betsy Carter, the magazine's founder and editor. "We are doing everything we can do to find a buyer." 
 Like other city magazines, New York Woman is heavily dependent on local advertisers like restaurants and stores. These are usually the first to cut back in a recession.
New York Woman, which has a circulation of 110,000 and publishes 10 issues a year, recently added several feature sections in an effort to attract more readers and advertisers.
For weeks, reports have circulated within the industry that American Express wanted to sell all of its city magazines, which include Atlanta, L.A. Style and D, a Dallas-based publication. American Express officials deny that the magazines are for sale.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK WOMAN (MAGAZINE); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO AMERICAN EXPRESS PUBLISHING CORP (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK WOMAN (MAGAZINE); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (71%); RESTAURANTS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



634 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: Overtures to Asia Pose Risk For U.S. Aerospace Industry

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Negotiations by America's second-largest aircraft maker, the McDonnell Douglas Corporation, about selling a big stake in its civilian aircraft operations to a consortium of Asian companies are threatening to accomplish what Congress spent the late 1980's trying to prevent: teaching Asia's strongest industrial powers how to build giant commercial jets.
So far, aerospace has been one of the few American high-technology industries virtually free of competition from Asia. To keep it that way, Congress has insisted in recent years on extraordinary restrictions to prevent the transfer of commercially valuable aerospace technology to Japan and South Korea, even slowing down the joint production of a new fighter. 
 It is still a matter of debate whether the technology used to build military fighters could be applied to big passenger jets, but there is little question that McDonnell Douglas's proposal to sell up to 49 percent of its commercial aircraft business could teach Asian manufacturers a lot.
On Friday, Taiwan Aerospace confirmed that it was neogtiating for 40 percent of the commercial operations of the Douglas Aircraft subsidiary of McDonnell Douglas. McDonnell Douglas says the price being discussed is roughly $2 billion.
On the same day, one of Japan's oldest and largest business trading firms, Mitsui & Company, said it, too, was considering an investment.
 
Talks Began Last Month
 A team of Mitsui executives traveled to the United States last month to begin talks, though a Mitsui spokesman, Hidemi Mori, said that so far taking a stake in the giant aircraft maker is only an idea.
"Of course we want to cooperate to keep America's aerospace industry strong," said a senior official of Japan's International Trade and Industry Ministry, which has struggled unsuccessfully for a generation to make Japan an aerospace competitor. "But I think it is fair to say that in most such arrangements, our own firms are looking for a chance to hone their skills."
McDonnell Douglas says it needs to raise cash for Douglas Aircraft to develop a more efficient airliner for Pacific service.
Douglas Aircraft, based in Long Beach, Calif., has two parts. One makes only civilian airliners; the other makes the C-17 military tranport. The parent company, which is based in St. Louis and is the nation's largest military contractor, makes the F-15 and F/A-18 fighters, the Apache helicopter, the Tomahawk missile and other mainstays of the nation's arsenal. The Seattle-based Boeing Company, however, is the world's largest aircraft maker over all.
McDonnell Douglas seems acutely aware of the political sensitivity of the negotiations -- especially in a pre-election climate, when the issue of declining American competitiveness is already ripe.
So the company decided that it would not offer any part of its military operations, a move the Pentagon and Congress would undoubtedly halt on national security grounds.
So it opened negotiations with Taiwan Aerospace, a recently formed company that has never built an airplane part much less a plane and whose chief qualification for partnership seems to be its ample supply of capital from the Taiwanese Government. Without question, the company seems like less of a potential threat to the health of the American aerospace industry than do the Japanese, who had a thriving aircraft industry before World War II and make little secret of their desire to revive it.
 
Potential Rival to Airbus
 Ultimately, McDonnell Douglas is expected to make a deal that creates an Asian version of Airbus Industrie, the European consortium whose success in building commercial airlines has put pressure on McDonnell Douglas and Boeing. Beyond Taiwan Aerospace and Mitsui, Singapore and South Korea are expected to provide other potential investors.
No one yet knows how such a consortium would work, or even whether some of Asia's most jealously competitive nations could manage a partnership. But few here doubt that McDonnnell Douglas would be expected to share its expertise in return for investments.
Publicly, at least, both McDonnell Douglas and the Bush Administration say there is little to be concerned about and that international consortiums are the only option in an age when it can cost $5 billion or more to design and build an airliner.
At a breakfast meeting on Saturday with a small group of reporters in Tokyo, Carla A. Hills, the United States trade representative, suggested that foreign investment in a company like McDonnell Douglas is a logical extension of the kind of manufacturing alliances that have arisen in the last decade.
In Japan, for example, three Japanese companies, led by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, are building more than 20 percent of Boeing's new 777. They are also investors in the plane itself, though not in the company. And the Japanese Government is leading a big research project on supersonic jets that Pratt & Whitney, General Electric and Rolls-Royce, which all make aircraft engines, have joined.
Several weeks before the current negotiations were announced, John F. McDonnell, the company's chief executive and son of its founder, said: "The U.S. is not going to stay a leader in aerospace by becoming Fortress America. We're going to stay a leader by sharing today's technology and developing tomorrow's."
 
Long-Range Aircraft
 The project for which McDonnell Douglas is seeking cash is the MD-12, a long-range, wide-body aircraft designed to compete primarily with the Boeing 747. If successful, it would have a range of 9,000 miles, 2,000 miles more than the 747. The aircraft should prove particularly popular among Asian airlines and other lines flying to the Pacific, which is the world's fastest-growing air market and has some of the longest commercial routes.
But to design and build it, McDonnell Douglas will need billions of dollars in outside financing and better connections to the Asian carriers. And it will need lower labor costs, a delicate issue with its unions.
It also seems to be taking whatever steps it can to address what were the core of Congress's objections to the Japanese FSX fighter project -- that the deal jeopardized the nation's economic security.
One risk that McDonnell is running, however, is that Taiwan Aerospace will bring little manufacturing expertise to the table. Earlier this year, Lawrence W. Clarkson, senior vice president for international affairs at Boeing, said one big advantage of the production agreement with Mitsubishi had been the manufacturing techniques that Boeing was able to adopt.
A second risk is that Taiwan Aerospace will not be able to deliver many customers to McDonnell. Taiwan's national airline, while growing fast, is small in comparison with Japan Airlines, All Nippon Airways, Singapore Airlines and Korean Airlines. And McDonnell's involvement with Taiwan could easily anger mainland China, which is currently producing parts for the MD-80, a twin-jet aircraft that can carry 150 passengers, in a joint venture in Shanghai.
Such problems could be alleviated by bringing in extra partners, like Mitsui. The company has represented McDonnell Douglas in Japan and regularly invests in many different ventures. But Mr. Mori, Mitsui's spokesman, said that before making any equity investment "we would have to determine what advantage there is, over just investing in the plane itself."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Senator Seeks Inquiry
 LOS ANGELES, Nov. 17 (AP) -- Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, plans to ask the Bush Administration to investigate the McDonnell Douglas Corporation's efforts to find Asian investors for the commercial operations of its Douglas Aircraft subsidiary.
In remarks reported in The Los Angeles Times on Saturday, the Senator said he would seek to block such a deal if it was judged harmful to American strategic interests.
And Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Majority Leader, called the negotiations "a very negative development for the United States," which amounted to a giveaway of American technology.
The president of Douglas Aircraft, Robert Hood, said, however, that little technology would be transferred to foreign companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8031 (TSE) (84%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (94%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (84%); NAICS425120 WHOLESALE TRADE AGENTS & BROKERS (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP; MITSUI & CO LTD MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP (94%); MITSUI & CO LTD (84%); BOEING CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP; DOUGLAS AIRCRAFT CO; TAIWAN AEROSPACE CORP; MITSUI & CO LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; TAIWAN UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (95%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (91%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); AIRLINES (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); HELICOPTERS (73%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (69%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



635 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Similarities to 1987, and Significant Differences

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
At first glance, the similarities between 1987 and 1991 are haunting: a long, increasingly exuberant rally in the stock market that abruptly ended, on an autumnal Friday, with a selling frenzy that slashed more than 100 points off the Dow Jones industrial average.
But market professionals see telling differences between last Friday and Oct. 16, 1987, which was followed by "Black Monday" on Oct. 19, the worst one-day market crash in the nation's history. 
 These critical distinctions in the current market's anatomy include:
*Declining interest rates on bonds and certificates of deposit, which leave fewer attractive investment alternatives than in 1987, when bank and bond rates were high and climbing.
*Calmer mutual fund customers, who do not appear to be repeating their 1987 stampede out of stock funds. That should mean mutual funds will not be forced to sell stocks today to raise cash for redemptions, as they had to do in 1987.
*A variety of restrictions on institutional trading that have been imposed by the nation's stock markets and futures exchanges, giving regulators some room to maneuver on days when trading turns turbulent.
*Less widespread and more sensible use of institutional hedging techniques, the so-called "portfolio insurance" strategies that were blamed for seriously destabilizing the market during the 1987 collapse.
 
A Wall Street Caveat
 Many on Wall Street warn that it is one thing to avoid another devastating single-day panic, however, and quite another to avoid a new bear market, given how weak the nation's economy is compared with 1987.
Indeed, one widely cited trigger for Friday's nose dive was investors' concern that already-troubled banks and retailers would be hurt if Congress approved a proposal to cap credit card interest rates -- an idea that Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said yesterday "will never see the light of day." [Page D7.]
The first sign of what today's trading may be like came from Tokyo, whose stock market opens 14 1/2 hours before the New York exchanges. Stocks in Tokyo were down 2.9 percent today, more than half of Friday's fall in New York.
Some cynics note that a long roster of history's financial disasters have been built on the glib assumption that "it's different this time."
But Joan Lappin, president of Gramercy Capital Management, an institutional money manager in New York, said the differences between now and 1987 do matter.
"Everybody is saying it's just like '87," Ms. Lappin said. "But it is not at all like '87, because then, the Government was raising interest rates and constricting the money supply. Today, they're lowering rates, and for the past three or four weeks have been aggressively pumping up the money supply."
 
Rates Down Since January
 Interest rates on the 30-year Treasury bond, a determinant of consumer rates across the financial markets, have fallen to the current 7.88 percent from 8.31 percent in January. The decline is even steeper in the rates on three-month Treasury bills, a common haven for corporations and institutional investors fleeing the stock market. Those rates have fallen to 4.61 percent in recent weeks from January's 6.43 percent level -- a drop of nearly 30 percent.
So if the anemic economy casts some clouds over the optimism that had been energizing the stock market until Friday, the bond market yields still stand in puny contrast to the double-digit gains generated by stock market investments so far this year.
The Nasdaq Composite Index and the Russell 2000 Index, both of which measure the performance of smaller companies' stock, have made the sharpest gains. Even after Friday's downdraft, the Nasdaq index is up nearly 45 percent since the first of the year and the Russell index nearly 40 percent. And the Dow begins trading today nearly 20 percent higher than its low point in January.
 
Buying on Weakness
 Indeed, stock market investors seem to have developed "a very well-conditioned impulse to buy on weakness," said James Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a credit markets magazine. "If you take a very long view of things, that has been a very profitable strategy going back to 1975, and especially since 1987."
Since individual investors have played a more significant role in the market this year than they did, for example, during the "mini-crash" of Oct. 13, 1989, their behavior is being closely monitored by market professionals. And so far, they seem exceptionally calm.
Major mutual fund organizations reported a relatively quiet weekend, with no signs of either energetic buying or of panicky selling. Marcia Sawyer, director of media relations for Fidelity Investments in Boston, said that Saturday had been about 25 percent busier than normal but that most of the 100 extra personnel added to Fidelity's telephone banks for the weekend had been sent home early on Sunday afternoon.
By a three-to-one margin, most callers to Fidelity, the nation's largest mutual fund organization, were simply checking the value of their accounts, rather than making buy or sell decisions, she said,
"People are essentially standing pat," she added.
 
Gauging the Institutions
 Measuring the mood of big institutional investors is more difficult. Obviously, a market decline as sweeping and swift as the one on Friday entailed a considerable amount of selling by major institutions. But some clues amid the rubble suggest that the decline was not fed by blind panic.
For one thing, the trading volume on Friday, while large, was not monstrous. Total volume on the New York Stock Exchange was about 236 million shares, compared with the 343 million shares traded on the Friday before Black Monday in 1987. That Monday, more than 605 million shares changed hands.
And there is less distortion this time around in the closely watched relationship between the price of stocks in the cash market and the price of the "surrogate stocks" traded in the form of stock-index futures contracts. This is important, since many institutional arbitrage traders tend to buy whichever form of equity looks cheap, and sell whichever looks dear.
 
A Narrow Cash-Futures Spread
 On Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500 index -- the cash market -- declined 14.53 points, to close at 383.62. That put it fairly close to the price of the most actively traded futures contract on that index, the December contract, which fell 14.45 points, to close at 383.50.
The December contract remains slightly cheaper than its cash-market equivalent, and some analysts say the difference may generate some additional selling early today by arbitrage-driven investors. But the gap is relatively small, portending none of the panic-driven liquidation seen in 1987.
Such cash-futures distortions can be keenly important. On Friday, for example, the sagging market was hit in the afternoon with a wave of stock sales that were related exclusively to the expiration of stock-index futures and options contracts in the Chicago markets. A trader at one major Wall Street firm said that expiration-related selling accounted for 20 to 30 points of the Dow's 120-point decline.
 
Rules Are Different Now, Too
 Finally, the market rules are different today than they were on Black Monday. The major stock exchanges and the futures exchanges in Chicago have put in place various measures that limit institutions' ability to engage in certain forms of arbitrage trading when such trades might contribute to a turbulent selloff.
One of the more modest limits, which requires that arbitrage trades be done only when the previous trade in that stock produced a price gain, was triggered on Friday after the market fell 50 points. Stiffer restrictions, which in effect slow down the processing of arbitrage-based orders, kick in after a 90-point decline. After a 250-point decline, all trading is halted for an hour, and at the 400-point mark, trading can again be halted for two additional hours.
 
Less Use of 'Portfolio Insurance'
 Moreover, the hedging technique known as "portfolio insurance," which proved a spectacular failure in 1987 and was cited by the Presidential Task Force on Market Mechanisms as a leading cause of Black Monday, is a much less important force in the market now. And while the hedging techniques in 1987 tended to rely on futures contracts, current forms tend to rely more on the options markets, making them less likely to distort the cash-futures relationship.
What no form of market regulation can contain, of course, is fundamental pessimism about the future course of the economy, and the effect that will have on corporate health and earnings -- a picture that is far less bright that it was in 1987, said Mr. Grant, the credit markets analyst.
"Bernard Baruch used to throw around the concept of 'the continuity of bullish thought,' " he added, referring to the financier who was an adviser to Franklin D. Roosevelt. "I suspect that the real significance of Friday was that the continuity of bullish thought was broken."

GRAPHIC: Graph: 'Comparing the Market's Volume" shows volume on the N.Y.S.E. '87 to '91 (Source: Datastream) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; MUTUAL FUNDS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FUTURES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); HISTORY (71%); CREDIT CARDS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



636 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Eyes on Stocks
The similarities between big market drops on Fridays in 1987 and 1991 seem haunting at first glance: long, exuberant rallies abruptly ended with frenzied selling. But market professionals see telling differences between last Friday and Oct. 16, 1987, which was followed on Monday by the worst one-day market crash in the nation's history. Among these are declining interest rates, calmer mutual fund customers, new restrictions on institutional trading and more sensible use of "portfolio insurance." Market Place. [Page D1.] In Tokyo today, stock prices fell 2.9 percent. [D6.]
The abrupt 120-point drop in the Dow Jones industrials ended a week in which new economic data seemed to provide convincing evidence that the recession is not behaving like other post-World War II downturns -- and that an economic upturn is still weeks or months away. Economic analysis. [D1.] 
 President Bush's fortunes have changed quickly, under the weight of the sagging economy, a new challenge from the Republican right and rough new attacks from Democrats. What worries many Republicans is whether the White House and the President can adjust. News analysis. [A10.]
The Administration mounted an attack on a measure to limit credit card interest rates. Treasury Secretary Brady said the proposal was "wacky, senseless legislation." [D7.]
 
COMPANIES
McDonnell Douglas's negotiations about selling a stake in its civilian aircraft operations to a consortium of Asian companies threaten to accomplish what Congress sought to prevent: teaching Asia's strongest industrial powers how to build giant jetliners. [D1.]
Orion Pictures said it would release 12 films in 1992 that were delayed this year because of money problems. [D1.]
Clark Clifford's late-in-life association with B.C.C.I. not only damaged his reputation for integrity but has resulted in the destruction of his once-prosperous law firm, Clifford & Warnke. [D1.]
 
THE ECONOMY
Some members of Congress are recognizing that they may have to combine requests for money for the insurance programs that protect banks and savings associations. [D2.]
The American Petroleum Institute expects strong attendance for its annual meeting in Houston today. [D2.]
Fifteen years after consumer advocates won a battle when New York State passed one of the first laws requiring that supermarket items have price tags, there is a new drive for "item-pricing" laws in counties across the state. [B1.]
 
INTERNATIONAL
With a burst of new decrees, Boris Yeltsin moved to assert the Russian republic's dominance over the Soviet economy. [A1.]
 
THE MEDIA BUSINESS
Many people wondered if TV Guide was worth the nearly $3 billion Rupert Murdoch paid for it three years ago. One of his lieutenants insists that it was. [D8.]
A year after Knight-Ridder reinvented The Boca Raton News in Florida to appeal to baby boomers, the results are heartening and frustrating. [D8.]
Advertisers are creating more commercials that can deliever the same message in different languages around the world. [D9.]
CBS is finding that the price of Olympic glory is high. The network is planning its first Olympic telecast since 1960, but producers are feeling the pinch because of CBS's losses on high-priced sports events. Bill Carter: Television. [D9.]
A hard-hitting campaign against imported merchandise is beginning for the trade organization representing apparel, fiber and textile manufacturers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D10.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMN
New York City plans to offer $1.21 billion in uninsured general-obligation bonds. Kenneth N. Gilpin: Credit Markets. [D11.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MNI (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (57%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: MCCLATCHY CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (57%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); RECESSION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); HISTORY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (75%); PRODUCT PRICING (75%); LAWYERS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); LEGISLATION (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); CONSUMER LAW (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); WORLD WAR II (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



637 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Lower in Tokyo

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Prices were sharply lower on the Tokyo Stock Exchange today in reaction to Friday's 3.9 percent drop in the Dow Jones industrial average.
The Nikkei index of 225 issues finished 699.06 points lower, or down 2.9 percent, to 23,400.12. At midday, the index was down 639.11 points, or 2.6 percent, to 23,460.07. The Nikkei lost 77.36 points on Friday. 
 In the first 30 minutes today, the Nikkei fell more than 2 percent.
"Tokyo can ignore New York's strength, but not its weakness," Paul Migliorato, a trader with Jardine Fleming Securities, said after morning trading. "Everyone's nervous."
Traders added that worries over the Japanese economy also caused selling. Others said the sell-off was more technical.
"The market got hammered today," one broker said at the end of trading. "But it's completely overreacted to New York's drop, which was sparked by the U.S. domestic situation. Selling here was technical."
In the afternoon, trading was seesaw, with the Nikkei plunging as much as 3.27 percent, before retreating slightly and then trading in a narrow range. The index climbed steadily within the last 20 minutes.
After the close, a Bank of Japan official said the Nikkei's decline posed no threat to Japan's financial stability and would not spur policy adjustments by the central bank.
"As long as it remains just a matter of stock prices, there is no broader problem," the official said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: JARDINE FLEMING SECURITIES (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TOKYO (JAPAN) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



638 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
CHINA OFFERS BAKER LITTLE
 Three days of talks between Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d and Beijing's leaders yielded some limited Chinese gestures to curb missile sales, but little progress toward easing political repression. Page A1
China detains two more dissidents over the weekend. A8
 
KHMER ROUGE IS BACK
 The Khmer Rouge returned to the Cambodian capital in the person of Son Sen, who served as head of a genocidal army in the 1970's. His arrival traumatized the city. A1
 
RUSSIA STAKES ITS CLAIM
With a burst of decrees, Boris N. Yeltsin moved to assert the Russian republic's dominance over the Soviet economy. Russia proclaimed control over its dwindling oil and gold reserves and lifted most controls over imports, exports and foreign currency transactions. A1
 
KURDISH CITY ON THE MEND
 Halabja Journal: After a long and forced exile, Iraqi Kurds are returning to the scene of the worst chemical attack on civilians of the eight-year war with Iran. A4
 
SAUDIS PLEDGE REFORMS
 King Fahd promised a series of changes in his Government by January, including a new citizen's council to advise the monarchy. Few expect an easing of social constraints in the Islamic kingdom. A3
 
CROATIAN STRONGHOLD FALLS
 The Croatian republic conceded the loss of Vukovar, a cherished town on the Danube, to Yugoslav federal forces. Croats pleaded with the army to guarantee the safety of thousands of civilians huddled in cellars beneath the city's ruins. A3
 
TURKEY SEEKS NEW IDENTITY
 With an inflation rate of 70 percent and its borders threatened, Turkey is scrambling to redefine itself after the election defeat of the pro-Western governing party. A6
 
WONDERING ABOUT MAXWELL
 Almost two weeks after his mysterious death, detectives are still seeking a definitive explanation of how the British publisher's body ended up in the ocean. A9
 
National A10-13, B6-7
 
WRITING AND REWRITING HISTORY
 As shown in the dispute over the 1991 Civil Rights Bill, an arcane bit of Washington life, the legislative history of a bill, has taken on new importance. A1
 
MISSILE SYSTEM ADVANCES
 Though Congress is near approval of a new anti-missile system for the first time in 25 years, questions remain about it utility and cost. A1
 
AFTER THE ELECTION
 Edwin W. Edwards basks in his unexpectedly lopsided victory over David Duke to be the next Governor of Louisiana. A1
 
Bitter election campaign ends, racial divisiveness remains. B6
 
WHAT NEXT FOR DUKE?
 News Analysis: David Duke gained a national forum and a national network of financial support, but his overwhelming defeat also shows that he is now "damaged goods." B6
 
No hidden vote for Duke. B7
 
WORRIES FOR REPUBLICANS
 News Analysis: President Bush's political fortunes have quickly deteriorated, and many Republicans worry whether Mr. Bush and his political team can adjust in time to salvage the '92 election. A10
 
AFTER THE NUCLEAR CATACLYSM
 In the early years of the Reagan Administration a secret Federal agency established a line of succession to the President outside the Constitution to assure continued government in the event of a devastating nuclear attack. A12
 
TURNING POINT FOR WOMEN
 Just when the times have become favorable to national discussion of their traditional issues, female lawmakers are learning that being on the inside politically also has a down side. B7
 
PAYING FOR A POLITICAL RACE
 A new study supports the charge that major political donors are bypassing Federal limits on direct contributions to candidates by pumping money into state parties that then help Federal candidates through voter registration drives and other efforts. B7
 
WATER, WATER EVERYWHERE
 For the people of Fir Island, Wash., destructive floods just part of making their personal peace with the elements in the wettest corner of the United States. A10
 
Countdown for a shuttle launching begins. A10
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
BLACK CHURCHES FACE AIDS
 Haltingly, black churches and mosques nationwide are beginning to turn to the fight against AIDS. Forced to recognize that blacks account for an alarming proportion of cases, the black clergy is speaking out in sermons and starting counseling and support groups. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Sports C1-10
 
Baseball: Mets start discussions with Bonilla C8
Basketball: Magic Johnson makes appearance at Forum C8
Column: Berkow on Jets' Matich. C4
Anderson on Giants' defense C6
Features: Sidelines C2
Football: Giants stop Cowboys. C1
Jets outlast Patriots. C1
College bowl picture. C3
Disappointment for Bowden. C3
Broncos top Chiefs. C4
Redskins go to 11-0. C4
Millen leads late Patriot drives. C5
Bears beat Colts C6
Horse Racing: First setback for Easy Now. C2
Soccer: Rutgers gains in N.C.A.A. tourney. C3
Tennis: Capriati at 15. C1
Sampras takes A.T.P. title. C2
 
Obituaries B9
 
Marion Bohmrich, U.S. research analyst
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
The director looks at the New York City Opera season. C11
Actor on brink of stardom. C11
A rap symposium for the French. C11
New nominee to the humanities endowment's advisory panel. C12
Theater: "Free Speech in America." C11
Dance: Joffrey 'Nutcracker' C13
Music: New Music Harvest. C12
New York Philharmonic. C12
Judy Collins in concert. C13
 
Editorials/Op-Ed
 
Editorials A14
No comfort in Duke's loss.
No energy bill? Good.
A forest primeval.
Old problems in Trenton.
 
Letters A14
 
William Safire: Ukraine marches out. A15
Anthony Lewis: "America, be on guard." A15
Hodding Carter: Not the end. A15
Dennis P. Culhane: Poorhouse revisited. A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (94%); CROATIA (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON LIFE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (94%); CROATIA (93%); CAMBODIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); TURKEY (79%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); PHNOM PENH, CAMBODIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (74%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (71%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); PUBLISHING (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (65%); IMPORT CONTROLS (54%); RELIGION (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



639 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1920 words

HEADLINE: Blacks and Affluent Whites Give Edwards Victory

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 17

 BODY:
As Edwin W. Edwards savored a resounding victory over David Duke in the voting for governor on Saturday, an analysis today showed that the Democrat's landslide resulted not only from a huge black turnout but also from the overwhelming support of relatively affluent whites.
Whites who voted for Mr. Edwards said they feared that race relations would worsen and that economic catastrophe would result from the election of Mr. Duke, a former neo-Nazi and grand wizard of the Ku Klux Klan. 
 Mr. Edwards, the former Governor who was elected to a fourth term just four years after leaving office under a cloud of allegations of corruption, piled up 61 percent of the vote amid record turnout over Mr. Duke, whose use of racial themes dominated the election.
 
Help From Old Enemies
 Nobody was surprised that black voters went almost unanimously for Mr. Edwards. But the huge black turnout -- around 80 percent, or about the same as among whites -- helped create the landslide.
Beyond that, the key to his victory was his 3-to-1 support among those who voted in last month's primary for Gov. Buddy Roemer, many of them business-oriented conservatives who had long been enemies of Mr. Edwards and who helped turn him out of office four years ago.
In a record turnout for a general election for governor, 79.83 percent of registered voters went to the polls, with Mr. Edwards getting 61 percent of the vote, or 1,086,820 votes, and Mr. Duke getting 39 percent, or 701,024, in complete but unofficial totals.
Today the national spotlight remained on Mr. Duke, whose losing campaign nevertheless expanded the audience for his message of middle-class resentment. In network interviews, he refused to rule out the possibility of running for President. [News analysis, page B6.]
But the day really belonged to Mr. Edwards, the state's only three-term Governor now elected to a fourth, who came back from the political dead to rout Mr. Duke in a race most analysts expected to be close.
For the 64-year-old Mr. Edwards, whose storied political career appeared to have ended in disgrace four years ago after two racketeering trials and his conceding victory to Mr. Roemer after finishing in second place in the primary, it was an enormous personal victory.
"I have to tell you that practically nobody, including my closest friends and advisers a year ago, thought I had a chance of winning," Mr. Edwards said at a morning news conference packed with reporters and supporters. "I want you to know this is the most exhilarating, positive, high political note for me in my whole career."
But it was also enormously satisfying for Mr. Edwards politically, both in terms of the extraordinary coalition he put together and for his role in stopping Mr. Duke.
"I knew the people of this state were too compassionate, too progressive, too concerned, too charitable to elect him given the agenda on which he was running," Mr. Edwards said.
 
'Blacks and Roemeristas'
 In remarks at turns proud and humble, laced with overtures to past foes and his trademark wit, Mr. Edwards managed to add a final grace note of levity to the race when he talked about refusing to go on a morning news show today after being told he would have to appear once again with Mr. Duke.
"I don't want to get in another argument with David Duke about we can't tell what the weather is because the welfare recipients are in the way," he said.
An analysis of the vote today showed Mr. Edwards won his stunning victory because of the enormous black turnout created by fear of Mr. Duke and because of overwhelming support from Mr. Roemer's followers, who feared a Duke victory would result in an economic disaster for Louisiana's sagging economy.
Mr. Edwards picked up the votes of 75 percent of those who voted for Mr. Roemer, according to a survey of 1,675 voters leaving the polling places conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, an organization created in 1990 by ABC News, CBS News, CNN and NBC News. Mr. Roemer finished third in the statewide primary in October.
"Basically, Edwards was elected by blacks and Roemeristas," said Edward Renwick, a Loyola University poll taker, using the term for the Roemer supporters whose "revolution" to clean up government four years ago was directed at Mr. Edwards. "It has to be one of the most unusual combinations in state history."
 
Income and Votes
 According to the voter surveys, white support for both candidates closely correlated with income.
Mr. Duke's strongest support came from low- and middle-income whites. He got 56 percent of the vote of whites with family incomes under $15,000, 63 percent of those making from $15,000 to $29,999, and 60 percent of those making from $30,000 to 49,999.
But 51 percent of whites with family incomes from $50,000 to $74,999 voted for Mr. Edwards, and 66 percent of those with incomes $75,000 and over supported him.
He did better with women than with men, getting 63 percent of the female vote and 59 percent of men. The poll had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points.
Mr. Edwards's election followed a campaign that was an artful blend of disparate elements.
Bill Morgan, an Edwards campaign consultant based in Baton Rouge, said the strategy from the start of the runoff campaign was to stress the economic costs of a victory by Mr. Duke.
 
Money and Morals
 That had the effect both of hitting what they felt was the freshest and strongest issue against Mr. Duke and of building bridges to the business community, which had always opposed Mr. Edwards. The result was a coalition that both brought aboard the supporters he most needed and helped change his image with voters mindful of the ethical questions that led to his defeat four years ago.
"It was the economic issues that won the race for Edwards," he said.
At the same time, other groups like the state Democratic Party and the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism reminded voters of Mr. Duke's longstanding white supremacist ties. Many credit the coalition, which was formed after Mr. Duke entered politics and did voluminous research on his racial views, as a significant presence in shaping perceptions of Mr. Duke.
Still, many saw a mixed message in the result, particularly the idea that Mr. Duke was repudiated more as a financial menace than for his racial history.
"Is the glass half empty or half full?" asked Mr. Renwick. "Obviously, it shows there is racial divisiveness and there are racially charged issues. The racial issue is not going to go away."
 
Awakening the Ostriches
 Similarly, Senator John B. Breaux, a Louisiana Democrat and Edwards protege, said Mr. Duke had tapped into widespread fears among whites and widespread unhappiness among blacks about the efficacy of social welfare programs.
"Any American politician who does not recognize the concerns that are out there is a political ostrich who has his or her head buried in the sand," said Mr. Breaux at a news conference given today by the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, of which he is chairman. "That's why it's important that we enter this debate, because if we don't enter it, David Duke has the stage to himself."
For some, emotions were still high, particularly for Mr. Duke's supporters, brought down to earth after an emotionally charged campaign most fully expected to win.
"He's got the whole world against him," said Donald Geisler, a construction worker in Mr. Duke's home district in Metairie. "The news media hurt him. They wouldn't let up on his past."
Asked his reason for voting for Mr. Duke, he said: "I feel like the blacks get too much their own way. You don't see white people getting up in bed spitting out babies like they do."
But for Mr. Edwards's supporters, many of whom celebrated in the streets of the French Quarter last night, the mood was of extraordinary relief, as if they had been fearing an approaching hurricane that turned and moved harmlessly out to sea.
Beatrice Gautreaux, a retired school teacher who lives in New Orleans's uptown area, usually goes to bed just after dark because of high blood pressure. Last night she stayed up after midnight, napping in a chair during commercials and basking in the results long after she knew who had won.
"It's wonderful," she said. "I am very happy Duke isn't my Governor."
Mr. Edwards said Mr. Duke's defeat, in which he scored five percentage points lower than in his race against Senator J. Bennett Johnston last year, was a crushing repudiation by the people of Louisiana.
"I know this state and I know the people of this state, and there is no way David Duke can be elected Governor of Louisiana," Mr. Johnston said. "David Duke can't be elected statewide in Louisiana, period."
 
Tilting Against Bush?
 But Mr. Duke, who finished three years of almost nonstop campaigning, first for state representative, then for senator, then for governor, said his issues touched a nerve throughout the state and the nation. He was back on national television today airing the same themes he aired in the governor's race.
"Right doesn't win every battle, but right always triumphs in the end," he told cheering supporters in conceding the election Saturday.
Mr. Duke called his loss only a beginning, and speculation on his future centers on whether he will run for Congress in Louisiana or for President.
To some, his defeat last night pointed toward the questions that have been raised about his political prospects -- the difficulty of winning an election dominated by race in an electorate in which blacks make up nearly 30 percent of the voters.
"You cannot run on strictly a racial agenda and expect to win," said Silas Lee, a local political analyst.
But others say that Mr. Duke's real aspirations go beyond the state and that he helped build a national movement that could be an important fringe force in national politics.
"My guess is he'll go out in a third party for President, perhaps a kind of Ayatollah Party putting together right wing politics and fundamentalist religion," said Joe Walker, a local poll taker.
For Mr. Edwards, who takes office Jan. 13, the problems are more concrete, including a billion-dollar budget deficit, lingering questions about his ethical standards, and keeping together the unusual coalition that brought him into power.
"If the economy crashes, we'll get an ersatz Duke, not him, but someone like him, four years from now," Mr. Walker said.
But Mr. Edwards, regarded until his last term as one of the most skillful politicians in Louisiana history, seemed to relish the idea of taking them on today. He has said his main motivation in this campaign was to leave a legacy of good government, and he repeated that today.
 
Hope and Challenges
 "I want to be a good Governor," he said, his accent still flavored by the Cajun language of his youth. "I recognize the opportunity I have. I'm going to make mistakes, but they're going to be mistakes of the hear, not of the heart. We're going to do this right."
He took pains to reach out to Mr. Duke's supporters, saying he shared many of the same goals and hoped to deal with them in a way that was not racially divisive.
"I want the people to know I have the same concerns they have," he said. "I'm not going to do it at the expense of the Hispanics or the blacks or the Jews or any other group of people. We're in this together, and we're all going to do well together or no one will do well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Duke signing autographs for well-wishers yesterday in Baton Rouge, La., as Gov.-elect Edwin W. Edwards, at a news conference in New Orleans, discussed his election victory. (Agence France-Presse; Reuters) (pg. A1); Supporters danced in front of Edwin W. Edwards's campaign headquarters in New Orleans on Saturday. (Matt Anderson for The New York Times) (pg. B6)
 
Graph: "A Potrait of Louisiana's Voters"
 
How the Survey Was Conducted
The poll is based on questionnaires completed by voters as they left voting stations throughout Louisiana on Saturday.
The poll was conducted by Voter Research and Surveys, an organization created in 1990 by ABC News, CBS News, CNN, and NBC News.
The results are based on 1,675 voters in 30 randomly selected precincts statewide.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20, the results from a poll like this, when based on the entire sample, should differ by no more than three percentage points from what would have been obtained by seeking to interview all those who voted in Louisiana on Election Day.
Results based on smaller subgroups have a larger potential sampling error. In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of voter opinion on Election Day may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; KU KLUX KLAN

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY; DEMOCRATIC PARTY; KU KLUX KLAN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (96%); LOUISIANA, USA (96%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION; JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION RESULTS; GOVERNORS (US) VOTERS & VOTING (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); CORRUPTION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR); EDWARDS, EDWIN ; APPLEBOME, PETER DAVID DUKE (93%); CHARLES ELSON 'BUDDY' ROEMER III (55%); DAVID DAVIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



640 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: The Louisiana Election;
Duke's Loss Brings Joy Even as It Fans Anger

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: GARYVILLE, La., Nov. 17

 BODY:
From an easy chair in his living room, Cleveland Johnson stared at the television picture of David Duke as the former Ku Klux Klan leader delivered his concession speech. Finally, it was over. And Mr. Johnson began to chuckle, softly at first, and then in great, lusty gales.
"I felt like rejoicing," said Mr. Johnson, a 44-year-old steelworker who recalls the day in 1970 when he was reprimanded at work for using the restroom for whites. "Duke can say whatever he wants. Fact is, he lost. And he lost big." 
 In this tiny rural town southwest of New Orleans surrounded by oil refineries and sugar cane fields, there are six streets; three "black streets" and three "white streets." All that differs between the two sides of town is the color of the residents, but that is almost all that matters here.
Sharon Duhe, who lives a short walk from Mr. Johnson, was angry about Mr. Duke's loss. "They just have those babies and go on welfare," she said, making it clear that "they" are black.
Ms. Duhe, a 22-year-old single unemployed woman, held her 1-year-old child, Ralphie, on her lap, as she talked furiously and drew hard on a cigarette. She receives welfare payments. "But the blacks get more," she said.
From New Orleans to Shreveport, voters expressed relief that the torturous campaign, which has cast this state in a most unflattering light, had finally come to an end. But supporters of Mr. Duke vowed to fight another day. And many blacks say they now feel a bit more uneasy around some of their white neighbors.
"When I see a white person in the grocery store now I wonder: 'Is this a Duke supporter?' " said Bill Spikes, a 23-year-old accounting student at Louisiana State University. "For me, this has been the last straw. Most of the white people actually voted for Duke. I don't have the patience for people who think like this. As soon as I graduate, I'm moving to California."
At the campaign rally for Mr. Duke on Saturday night, where the only black people in the ballroom were serving the drinks, there was little question about the central theme behind the candidate. As Mr. Duke spoke, one man hoisted a hand-lettered placard that read, "Vote for the Wite Man, not the Wong Man."
"What's wrong with being proud to be white?" asked Tonya McQueen, a 35-year-old Baton Rouge woman who came to the Duke rally with her 9-year-old son, Ruston. Mrs. McQueen, who recently lost her job as a dental hygienist, wore a sweatshirt emblazoned with the slogan, "It's a White Thing: You Wouldn't Understand."
In Shreveport, where support for Mr. Duke was solid, voters pore over the newspapers this morning with their breakfasts at George's Grill on Kings Highway.
"I think the national media and the others in the state did a good job of persuading people of the dangers of a Duke election," said Andy Shehee, 32, who works in the funeral business.
 
'Put the Signs Down'
 But Mr. Duke hardly shied away from media coverage. "Put the signs down," Mr. Duke told his supporters as he prepared to deliver his concession speech, "so that people around the country can see this."
The emergence of Mr. Duke did not surprise Huey Fleming, a 56-year-old black man who lives in Garyville. "A whole lot of white people feel the way Duke feels," he said. "He just came out and expessed it."
At one of the largest black churches in New Orleans, the mood was joyous, but tempered with concern. "You better believe I'm relieved," said James Joseph, a parishioner at Greater St. Stephens Full Gospel Baptist Church. "There was some tension in this city."
In Metairie, the suburb that Mr. Duke has represented in the State Legislature, many voters were angry at whites who did not stick together. Clyde Alexander, a retired shipyard worker, said he was bitter about the failure of some whites to support Mr. Duke.
"Most of the white people are so two-faced," he said. "They say what he says in private."
James V. Farmer, an unemployed oilfield worker walking down Veterans Boulevard in Metairie, said Mr. Duke would remain a leader for angry whites. "Give him four more years, he'll be the Governor of Louisiana," he said.
Many people at the Duke rally expressed anger with President Bush. One man wore a shirt that declared, "Kill the Quail; Burn the Bush."
"People say that David Duke has made race an issue," said Edward L. Richmond, a 38-year-old owner of a heating and air-conditioning business, and a Duke supporter. "But he doesn't say anything different than Patrick Buchanan says. Most Republicans think just like David."
Many Duke supporters were not natives of Louisiana. Chuck Fiorello, a 41-year-old oilfield salesman, bounced his 6-year-old daughter, Kaylin, on his shoulders, at the Duke rally. "Why am I for Duke?" he asked. He pointed at his 9-year-old son. "Because he's white, he's going to have a harder chance getting into schools, getting jobs. It's not fair."
Late Saturday in Baton Rouge, Mr. Duke said that while "the candidate may have lost, the message goes out."
In Garyville, meanwhile, Mr. Johnson, the steelworker, said he thought to himself: "Yeah, the voters delivered a message, all right. The message is that they don't want you."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "They just have those babies and go on welfare," said Sharon Duhe about blacks. She sat with friends on a porch in Garyville, La., holding her year-old son, Ralphie, on her lap. Ms. Duhe, a single, unemployed woman, said she receives welfare payments, "But the blacks get more."; "I felt like rejoicing," said Cleveland Johnson after watching David Duke deliver his concession speech on television Saturday night. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
 
Map: "How Louisiana Voted" shows the results of the vote for governor in Louisiana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: S A WHITE MARTINS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); SHREVEPORT, LA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); JEWS; ANTI-SEMITISM; GOVERNORS (US) UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (72%); CHILDREN (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); ELECTIONS (69%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (54%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK; DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR); EDWARDS, EDWIN W DAVID DUKE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



641 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: The Louisiana Election;
Even in Losing, Duke Spread Message to Nation

BYLINE: By ROBERTO SURO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Nov. 17

 BODY:
For State Representative David Duke merely losing an election need not be the end of his career.
When he conceded defeat in the Louisiana governor's race to former Gov. Edwin W. Edwards on Saturday night, he said, "this is the beginning, not the end." Indeed, even as he waged a losing campaign, Mr. Duke greatly expanded the national audience for his message of middle-class resentment. And in network interviews today he refused to rule out the possibility of running for President. 
 But whatever his future ambitions may be, on Saturday Mr. Duke violated one of the cardinal rules of politics. He performed below expectations.
Now, in addition to the baggage he carried as a former Nazi and leader of the Ku Klux Klan, he bears the additional burden of being a loser. And by a big margin: he won only 39 percent of the vote to 61 percent for Mr. Edwards, a three-time former Democratic Governor who left office in 1987 under a cloud of scandal.
 
'Consider Him Damaged Goods'
 "He took a very big hit yesterday in a race against a candidate who had exploitable weaknesses," said Fred Meyer, chairman of the Texas Republican Party, "and in terms of his ability to export the David Duke phenomenon beyond Louisiana, you have to consider him damaged goods."
Playing the underdog as usual, Mr. Duke today blamed "the liberal media" and "the massive political machine assembled against me."
Indeed, a vast coalition of politicians, businessmen and interest groups backed Mr. Edwards, and a survey of voters on Saturday as they left polling places showed that 47 percent of those who said they voted for Mr. Edwards said their main motive was to vote against Mr. Duke.
Just as he proved in the campaign that he could arouse enormous intensity among his supporters by holding rallies at which he was greeted like a rock idol, Mr. Duke proved on Election Day that he could arouse equal intensity in his opponents.
 
Likely to Test Political Power
 It remains to be seen whether these vulnerablilities will outweigh the gains he made by being interviewed on at least eight network news shows in the last week alone. But it does seem likely that the 41-year-old Mr. Duke will test his political powers again soon. He may have to if only because he will be unemployed at the end of the year when his legislative term is up.
"There is no reason to assume that Duke is now going to become inconsistent, and thus far his life has been a consistent effort to push his message and himself in front of an ever bigger audience," said Douglas Rose, a professor of political science at Tulane University and the author of the coming book "David Duke: Action and Reaction" (University of North Carolina Press, 1992).
Mr. Rose warned that it was easy to underestimate Mr. Duke's political accomplishments in this race by simply looking at the bottom-line results.
 
Nationwide Name Recognition
 In fact he drew more than 701,000 votes, a 15 percent increase over the number he gathered last year in his unsuccessful bid to unseat United States Senator J. Bennett Johnston, a Democrat. And again this year he took a clear majority of the white vote.
As a perpetual candidate, he has steadily increased his constituency in Louisiana, and while he was defeated here, he scored important successes outside the state.
The intense news coverage of this race across the country insured that Mr. Duke's name recognition nationwide now exceeds that of many Federal officeholders.
In the campaign he received contributions from 46 states, and campaign finance reports show that 47 percent of his contributions came from outside Louisiana. As of Oct. 27 the reports show that Mr. Duke had received $1.4 million.
Even today, as he did throughout the campaign, Mr. Duke took every opportunity in television appearances to invite letters from those who agree with his views and he sometimes managed to announce his mailing address as well. Responses from just two network appearances generated 14,000 letters, an aide to Mr. Duke said, and so he has probably added tens of thousands of names to the computerized mailing list used for his fund-raising efforts.
And for those people who are already devoted to Mr. Duke, his defeat may not be an overwhelming obstacle.
 
May Become More Formidable
 "He might just turn into an even more formidable force now that he can play the martyr who has been trashed by the liberals and the special interests," said Kris Wolfe, a former regional political director for the Republican National Committee. "He's just so good at playing the victim."
The campaign for governor, however, disclosed flaws that might limit his career.
George Rabinowitz, a political scientist at the University of North Carolina, said, "In the long haul he may not be terribly viable as a political figure because he has boxed himself in to a certain kind of appeal and he is not going to expand it very readily."
Indeed, Mr. Duke apparently believed his own speeches when he claimed that most people shared his beliefs but did not have the courage to admit it. He made no effort to reach out to new constituencies in the campaign. Instead, he just repeated his basic themes about the evils of welfare, affirmative action and big government.
One of Mr. Duke's biggest flaws, as demonstrated by Saturday's election, is that he "falls outside the realm of acceptability," Mr. Rabinowitz said.
Like Barry Goldwater, the Republican candidate in the 1964 Presidential election, Mr. Duke was attacked not so much for any specific facets of his past or his positions, but instead he was successfully painted as a dangerous extremist.
Just as advertising with images of mushroom clouds was used to defeat Mr. Goldwater, Mr. Duke was abandoned by his suburban followers after a flood of advertisements predicted that he would heap economic disaster on the state.
While Mr. Duke may still have a future as a protest candidate in Louisiana or in a national contest, Saturday's election showed that he can be defeated when voters are faced with the choice of giving him real responsibility.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA PRESS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); TRENDS (69%); LIBERAL MEDIA (64%); WRITERS (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: SURO, ROBERTO; DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR); EDWARDS, EDWIN DAVID DUKE (92%); SCOTT DAVID (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



642 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Turkish Election Results May Shift Basic Policies

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ANKARA, Turkey, Nov. 13

 BODY:
Burdened by a 70 percent inflation rate and disintegration along its borders with the Soviet Union and Iraq, Turkey is scrambling to redefine itself in the wake of the election defeat of President Turgut Ozal's governing Motherland Party.
The defeat in the Oct. 20 elections has returned Suleyman Demirel to the Prime Minister's office for the seventh time, and with him the fear that the country could slip back into the violent political infighting that led to a military coup in 1980. Mr. Demirel was ousted in that coup, as he had been once before, in 1971. 
 The election appears more likely to result in a shift by the Ankara Government away from the stongly pro-Western policies of Mr. Ozal and the conservative Motherland Party. Mr. Demirel, whose nationalist True Path Party took 180 of the 450 Parliamentary seats, is trying to hammer out a coalition with the left-wing Social Democrat Populist Party, which won 88 seats.
 
'Atmosphere Is Different'
 "We are entering a political crisis," said Kamran Inan, Mr. Ozal's Minister of State and one of Mr. Demirel's fiercest critics. "We are faced with enormous problems. We must assume a leadership role in the Middle East, the Balkans, Central Asia and beyond. We have economic difficulties and increased terrorism. We need a strong leader, but what we are getting is a man who prefers political survival over political stability."
Mr. Demirel argues that Turkey has come too far to ever slip back into thepolitical violence of the years before the coup.
"The atmosphere of the country is different, quite different," the avuncular 68-year-old politician said, seated in his office in Parliament. "The atmosphere of the world is different."
For the last decade Turkey was dominated by the voluble and high-handed Mr. Ozal, who was appointed Prime Minister by the military in 1983 and oversaw the transition from military dictatorship, propelled the country toward parliamentary democracy and a market economy and gave unreserved support to the West, in particular the United States. During the Persian Gulf crisis, Turkey shut off the pipeline by which Iraq exported most of its oil and allowed American warplanes to make sorties against Iraq from Turkish soil.
But the cozier President Ozal became with the West, the more he engendered disgust at home, and he was often attacked for his regal way of life and the wealth supposedly accumulated by his family. Mr. Demirel, during his campaign, promised to remove the President, "his crown, his throne and all."
 
Taking Aim at Presidency
 Mr. Demirel says he is determined to strip the power of the presidency, which he argues is unconstitutional, and give it to the Parliament. He says the new Parliament will take up the legality of Mr. Ozal's election by Parliament to the newly created post of President in 1989.
It would take a two-thirds majority to oust the President, and the new Parliament still has 113 members of the Motherland Party, enough to block such a move.
But Mr. Ozal, whose term expires in 1996, seems to have thrown in the towel. "The Ozal era is finished," he recently told a Turkish newspaper. "I don't want any role from now on."
In fact, the True Path Party and the Motherland Party have many policies in common. Mr. Demirel promised during the campaign to apply more strigent fiscal controls, to give the right to strike to public employees, to create a ministry for human rights and a national health-insurance system, to continue selling off state-owned businesses and to suppress leftist terrorist groups and the Kurdish guerrilla movement in the southeast.
 
Kurdish Violence Is Up
 The Kurdish violence has increased in the last year. The rebels, who have been waging a guerrilla campaign since 1983, want a separate Kurdish state.
Mr. Demirel has called for "compassion" in dealing with the Kurdish problem, telling Kurdish leaders that he will lift bans on publications in Kurdish. But on economic matters, Mr. Demirel's policies may be influenced by his coalition negotiations with a party whose distrust of market economics is only exceeded by its distrust of the United States.
The Social Democrats opposed Turkish involvement in the Persian Gulf war and are calling for a halt to the privatization of the public sector, which constitutes about 40 percent of the economy, and the creation of new state enterprises.
 
Austerity May Be Needed
 If he is to rein in the inflation rate, Mr. Demirel must convince the Social Democrats to endorse what could be an unpleasant austerity program, according to Western diplomats.
There is a budget deficit of $6 billion and a foreign debt of $44 billion. And there is little likelihood that Mr. Demirel will ever begin to deliver on some of his more outlandish campaign promises, including one to give every Turk two keys, one for his car and the other for his house.
The Social Democrats, moreover, are split by internal power struggles, and fell far short of their aspirations in the last elections. Most acknowledge that the process of economic and political reform, coupled with Turkey's drive to become part of the European Community, has advanced too far to be rolled back.
"We are part of Europe," Mr. Demirel said, "and we should stay a part of Europe."
 
Western Diplomats Worried
 Some Western diplomats worry that Mr. Demirel, forced to bend to the Social Democrats, will find himself unable to introduce the economic reforms needed to prod the economy along.
"The economy needs some major tinkering with and another impulse of privatization," a Western diplomat said. "What we fear is that things will just go on as they are with a few rhetorical statements."
But for many Turks, for whom this is the third election since the military relinquished power, the democratic transition is in itself a victory, despite all their other worries.
"Forming a government is a means now, not a goal," Mr. Demirel said. "The goal is what this government will do."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Suleyman Demirel returns as Turkey's Prime Minister for the seventh time. With him comes fear of violent political infighting. (Associated Press); With the defeat of his governing Motherland Party, President Turgut Ozal is facing an enormous political crisis. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TURKEY (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (67%); 

CITY: ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;TURKEY TURKEY (95%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (67%); ANKARA, TURKEY (92%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); COUPS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); TERRORISM (65%); 

PERSON: DEMIREL, SULEYMAN (PRIME MIN); OZAL, TURGUT (PRES); HEDGES, CHRIS SULEYMAN DEMIREL (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



643 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Dark Skies For Bush;
Rain on His Parade Buoys Democrats

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 17

 BODY:
There are more than just a few scattered clouds over the White House in the past few days. The sagging economy, a new challenge from the party's right and some rough new attacks from the Democrats have combined to produce a siege of bad weather for President Bush.
What worries many Republicans is whether this White House, this political team and this President can adjust. Mr. Bush's fortunes, after all, have changed very quickly. In recent days, the Administration has seemed rattled and forced into playing defense again and again, feeding concerns in the party that Mr. Bush and his political apparatus are not yet ready for 1992. 
 The political awkwardness the Adminstration brings to the economy was captured today by Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady, as he and other Administration spokesmen tried to regain ground on the Sunday morning talk shows, after a week marked by bad economic news. Under questioning on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Mr. Brady tried to counter the notion that the nation was mired in a serious recession. "What I would say is we're in a recovery that's slower than we want it to be," he said, echoing the standard Administration line.
 
D'Amato Is Pessimistic
 His point was immediately undercut by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, who is in a competitive race for re-election next year and who wasted little time in pronouncing the nation "in a tremendous recession." Indeed, while many Republicans recognize the need to retain business confidence through comments like Mr. Brady's, they worry that the Administration's cautious style feeds directly into the Democrats' line of attack these days.
One after another, the Democratic Presidential contenders have portrayed the Bush Administration as a den of elitists with no feel for the suffering caused by the recession, and thus no sense of urgency about ending it. Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa has even resurrected the longstanding symbol of Republican inaction on the economy: Herbert Hoover.
Conservative Republicans, who long for the philosophical clarity of the Reagan Administration, are particularly concerned about how the economic issue is being framed for the coming campaign. They have watched in dismay as the Democrats have seized control of the powerful issue of tax cuts for the middle class, an issue that many Republicans consider their own.
"The Republican Party has been successful in large measure because we've succeeded in shaking off the mantle of Herbert Hoover and becoming the party of growth," said Representative Vin Weber of Minnesota, secretary of the House Republican Conference and a leading conservative. "If we go into the next election with the Democrats on the offensive on the economy while we're defending a sick economy, I have no doubt we'd lose that election. Unfortunately, that seems to be the posture that we're in today."
Still, Mr. Weber said he believed that the White House was waking up to its problems and had time to correct them. He noted that the Administration was now promising a new domestic agenda in the State of the Union address.
Many Republicans are arguing that the slow-starting schedule originally established for Mr. Bush's re-election campaign, devised back when he was soaring in the public opinion polls, has got to change. Mr. Bush now has to deal with both the attacks from the Democrats and the likelihood of a challenge in New Hampshire from Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator.
"The campaign, whether he likes it or not, has begun," said a veteran Republican consultant.
Mr. Buchanan, who has not yet formally announced, is not considered a major threat to Mr. Bush's renomination, but he has the capacity to cause considerable mischief. He could serve as a vehicle for economic anger in New Hampshire, and he could be a lightning rod for conservatives, who have long been suspicious of Mr. Bush's commitment to their cause.
 
A Sprawling Coalition
 Some political professionals say that Mr. Bush might also have to deal with a challenge in Republican primaries from David Duke, the Louisiana State Representative and former Ku Klux Klan leader, just coming off his loss in the race for Louisiana governor.
The restlessness on the right only underscores the challenge facing Mr. Bush as he heads into 1992: holding together the sprawling Republican coalition forged under Ronald Reagan. Both centrist and conservative Republicans are complaining in recent weeks that the Bush Administration lacks a clear and compelling message.
In the absence of a unifying message, divisive issues like abortion can loom large. At the moment, Mr. Bush is faced with a particularly difficult issue for his party: legislation that would overturn the rule prohibiting doctors and counselors in federally financed family planning clinics from discussing abortion. Mr. Bush must act by Wednesday, and a veto is expected.
Republicans draw solace from the notion that no matter how great their difficulties in Presidential elections, they can rely on the Democrats to kick away any chance of capitalizing on them. Still, there is decidedly less cockiness. And Republicans are praying that the White House realizes how much the weather has changed.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush answering questions from reporters during a round of golf on Saturday at the Holly Hill Country Club near Camp David, Md. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLITICS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); TONER, ROBIN GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM HARKIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



644 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Society Desk

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Ms. Leinwand Has Wedding

 BODY:
Adrienne Sue Leinwand, the director of special personnel projects for the City University of New York, and David Chester Maslin, a vice president and a senior international economist at J. P. Morgan in New York, were married in New York yesterday by Rabbi Ronald Sobel at the Parker Meridien hotel.
Mrs. Maslin, 38 years old, is a daughter of Dr. Gerald Leinwand of New York, the president emeritus of Western Oregon State College, and the late Selma Fienberg Leinwand, a high-school teacher and guidance counselor in New York. The bride graduated from the University of Vermont and received a master's degree in education from Boston University and a doctorate in higher education administration from the University of Oregon. 
 Mr. Maslin, 42, graduated and received a master's in economics from California State University at Fullerton. His parents, who are retired, owned and ran the Brea (Calif.) Preschool. His previous marriage ended in divorce, as did the bride's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MERIDIEN HOTEL (58%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (56%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF VERMONT (57%); BOSTON UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (56%); UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); OREGON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (88%); MARRIAGE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (86%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); 

PERSON: LEINWAND, ADRIENNE SUE (ADRIENNE SUE MASLIN); MASLIN, DAVID CHESTER

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



645 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

BLACK CHURCHES JOIN THE AIDS FIGHT
Faced with the overwhelming reality that minorities account for an alarming proportion of the new AIDS cases being diagnosed, many black churches and mosques are beginning to turn their influence to the fight against the disease. Clergymen and women are speaking out in sermons, starting counseling and support groups and sponsoring housing for homeless people with AIDS. And they are doing so against the powerful traditions of their conservative theology. Page A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
MAYOR DINKINS'S TRIP TO SOUTH AFRICA ENDS
In the final hours of a trip he called "one of the most profound experiences I've ever had," Mayor David N. Dinkins accomplished a major goal he had set for his journey to South Africa: announcing a package of economic programs involving New York City businesses. But he failed to accomplish another: meeting with a top government official to press the cause of change. His meeting with Foreign Minister Roelof F. Botha was canceled at the last minute without explanation. Page B3.
 
SAME QUESTIONS, ANOTHER CUOMO
Andrew Cuomo, the Governor's son, who has had considerable success over the years in overcoming community opposition and government bureaucracy to build housing for the homeless, has been contemplating whether public office is the most effective vehicle for coping with the growing problem of homelessness. Metro Matters, Page B3.
 
A TRAIL OF RANDOM VIOLENCE IN THE BRONX
A man talking with his wife from a pay phone in the South Bronx was shot and killed by an unidentified man with a shotgun -- apparently a random act of violence. Two relatives standing nearby were also sprayed with shotgun pellets. The shooting occurred shortly after a dispute between two groups of men erupted into gunfire a short distance up the street. Page B3.
 
A SHOOTING IN MIDTOWN RESTAURANT
A dispute among a dozen men in a Chinese restaurant on Fifth Avenue near 32d Street erupted into gunfire on Saturday evening, leaving one man dead and another seriously injured. The police, who were still trying to identify the victims and learn what prompted the argument, said they believe the incident might have involved Asian gangs. Page B3.
A young girl died in a house fire in Queens started by her brother. Page B3.
 
REGION
 
USING CHILDREN TO RUN DRUGS
Once or twice a week, the police say, two woman from Plainfield, N.J., loaded their children into a car and drove to the Bronx, where the children hurried out to pick up packets of cocaine and heroin. Then the families drove back to Plainfield, where the children delivered the drugs to dealers. Prosecutors said they broke up the ring on Friday night with the arrest of the two women. Page B5.
 
THE GAPS BETWEEN NEW JERSEY'S CHILDREN
The first county-by-county analysis of children's well-being in New Jersey shows "startling extremes" between the richer, generally suburban areas of the state and the poor, mostly urban areas. The survey, which considered 12 factors from infant mortality to high school dropout rate, ranked Bergen County first and Essex County last. Page B5.
 
WHERE DID YOU GET THAT HAMMER?
In additions to books and other such things, the public library in Wyandanch, L.I., lends tools. After years of giving borrowers books that told them how to do things, but neglecting to give them the tools carrying them out, the library began the tool-lending program two years ago with a $10,000 Federal grant. It has been a means for the library to be relevant to a painfully poor neighborhood where many people prize a trowel more than a novel. Page B5.
 
THE TRIANGLE CLUB'S 100TH ANNIVERSARY
Princeton University threw a three-day party to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Triangle Club, the undergraduate theater troupe almost as well-known for its tradition of men-in-drag chorus lines as for its crisp original productions. With more than 750 past members on hand, nostalgia reigned. Princeton Journal, Page B5.
The Traffic Map B4
Chronicle B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS RELIGION (92%); AIDS & HIV (91%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FIREARMS (86%); SHOOTINGS (86%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (86%); CONSERVATISM (78%); FAMILY (76%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (76%); CITIES (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); MEN (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (66%); DEATHS (61%); FIRES (61%); HEROIN (60%); COCAINE (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



646 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: A Puzzle for Plainfield: Children as Drug Couriers

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PLAINFIELD, N.J., Nov. 17

 BODY:
Once or twice a week, the police say, two women loaded children into a car and drove into the the Bronx, where the children hurried out to pick up packets of cocaine and heroin.
Then the families drove back to this once-proud city, now troubled by crime, where the children would deliver the drugs to dealers in homes and on street corners, investigators said today. 
 The children, third to seventh graders, provided a cover for the ring, they said. The price was their innocence.
 
'Mothers Waiting in Cars'
 "The kids would walk right into 'stash houses' and then make runs just like paperboys to low-level distributors, with their mothers waiting in cars," said the Union County Prosecutor, Andrew K. Ruotolo. "These kids not only obtained the drugs in the Bronx, but some of the older ones took orders in phone calls. Their innocence has been lost forever."
Mr. Ruotolo and his top aides surmised that the women designated themselves as ringleaders and gave the children "principal roles" in the operation to avoid arousing suspicion from law-enforcement personnel.
The children, they said, were innocent pawns. "I don't think they had any idea of the seriousness or the enormity of the activities they were involved in," said Mr. Ruotolo's first assistant, Michael Lapolla.
The two Plainfield mothers -- Valerie Jackson, 39 years old, and Shirley McCoy, a 37-year-old caseworker at the Union County Board of Social Services here -- were arrested Friday night. The main charges against Ms. Jackson and Ms. McCoy were conspiracy to distribute narcotics and employing minors in a drug scheme, officials said. Maximum sentences for the crimes are 20 years in prison, they said.
Of seven other Plainfield residents arrested Friday night in the case, four are women, including Ms. Jackson's 22-year-old daughter Tawana, officials said.
Ms. Jackson has six children -- four girls and two boys -- ranging in age from 3 to 25, friends said. In addition, she helps care for a 3-week-old grandchild, born to Tawana at the end of October.
The family lives in a two-story white-shingled Cape Cod home with black trim on Salem Road, a quiet residential street of modest homes near the high school's football field and athletic complex.
On Saturday night, her husband sat on a couch with two young boys watching a wrestling match. He leaped up in anger when a reporter, escorted by his brother-in-law, Butch Tucker, came in. "I don't know anything about the arrest," Mr. Jackson said. "All I know is I got my sons."
Then Mr. Tucker said, "You look at this house, does this look like a house of drugs?"
Today, a neighbor, Alexandra Kerencev, described Ms. Jackson as an "excellent, excellent mother" who was very protective of her children.
"Rain, sleet, or snow, she was out there driving her kids to school, sometimes in slippers and bathrobe," Ms. Kerencev said.
Mr. Ruotolo, the prosecutor, said the drug ring was thought to have been operating here for several months. He said his staff uncovered it shortly after opening a satellite office here three months ago under a $64,000 state grant to begin a crackdown on crime in Plainfield.
He said about 30 percent of Union County's crime occurred in Plainfield, a racially mixed community of about 50,000 people. Since race riots here in the late 1960's, Plainfield has evolved from a town of wealth and prosperity into one with all economic classes. Grand homes with broad lawns coexist now with pockets of poverty and boarded-up homes in some neighborhoods.
In part because the investigation is continuing, Mr. Ruotolo declined to divulge several details in the case, including the addresses of the drug distribution points in the Bronx and whether the women used their own children or others as couriers.
Officials also declined to say exactly how many children were involved in the trips to the Bronx, other than to say it was fewer than 10.
Other residents arrested and the charges against them are Richard Benjamin, 46, possession of and conspiracy to distribute drugs; Carlton Gee, 33, conspiracy to distribute drugs; Phillip King, 32, conspiracy to distribute drugs; Carolyn McCleod, 37, possession of narcotics; Celeste McCray, 29, possession of narcotics, and Jacquelin Fitz, 39, possession of drug paraphernalia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PLAINFIELD (NJ) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; CHILDREN AND YOUTH CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ARRESTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); CHILD LABOR LAWS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FAMILY (78%); SENTENCING (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); HEROIN (77%); COCAINE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); COUNTIES (74%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (64%); WRESTLING (60%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



647 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Library Lends Tools to Build Pride

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WYANDANCH, L.I., Nov. 16

 BODY:
Carl Varner went to the public library here the other day and checked out a hammer. Then he took it home and used it to replace the ragged paneling in the entrance hallway. He lives in a plain split-level house with his sister, Janice, and she had been egging him to help tidy up the place.
"Right now I couldn't really afford a hammer," said Mr. Varner, who works at a plumbing supply company. "All I can say is I'm a grateful man that I can go to the library and take out a tool that makes life a little better." 
 Like the screwdrivers and the wrenches and the T squares, the hammer had been around. Brenda Donald used it to repair a rickety door frame. Jackie McQueen took it out to install some sorely needed screens. Seven-year-old Richard Ashby 3d checked it out so he could mend his mangled bicycle chain.
There are many ways that impoverishment expresses itself in a hard-luck community and one of the ways in Wyandanch is in the nagging need for a good hand tool and a way to mop the floor. And so two years ago, the local library, fueled with $10,000 in Federal money, began a tool-lending program. It was a means for the library to be relevant to a painfully poor neighborhood where many people prize a trowel more than a novel.
 
'Now There's No Excuse'
 "One of the reasons we started this is civic pride," said Richard Ashby, who runs the program. "You would drive around town and you'd see fences broken down. You'd see high grass. You would tell people to fix things up and they'd say they can't afford a lawn mower, they can't afford tools. Now there's no excuse for your lawn to be uncut, your gate to be swinging from the post, your floor to be unmopped. We're trying to get people to stop saying I can't."
Wyandanch has joined a scattering of libraries across the country with similar impulses. The Plainedge, L.I., Public Library operates a tool-lending program, as do the Grosse Pointe, Mich., Central Library and the Berkeley Public Library in California.
Wyandanch is a predominantly black community of 11,000 people where an air of unfulfilled dreams and bitter struggle hangs like a cloud. Most residents subsist on small incomes and many rear their children without the assistance of a spouse. In the surge and ebb of enervating lives of too few dollars and too many needs, not everything always gets done.
The library has a hodgepodge of about 100 tools available for loan -- including six hammers, seven tape measures, two vacuum cleaners, three lawn mowers, one post-hole digger, 18 screwdrivers, six rakes, two mops and three ladders.
Officially, the hours of the tool program are Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from 10 A.M. to 1 P.M., but Mr. Ashby doesn't hew to the schedule. He knows that nobody absolutely has to have the new Updike at 6 P.M. on a Friday. But if someone's toilet gets clogged up at 6, they need a snake right then.
 
Tools at All Hours
 "I end up lending tools six days a week at all hours," Mr. Ashby said. "If I didn't, I wouldn't really be helping the community, would I?"
Brenda Donald does the best she can to keep her blue frame house presentable. Spare hours are rare when you're a single parent with three young children thundering through the house and when money is so tight that having a phone is too much of a luxury. When the tool program began, Ms. Donald was first in line.
She has had the hammer out, and she is a regular borrower of a lawn mower and a rake. Her small lawn was well tended since she had used a rake just the other day to spruce it up. "It's been a blessing," she said as she shooed her children down the block. "When I'm in need of something, I go to the library and use my library card. It makes a difference in my life, I'll tell you that."
None of the library's tools are power models, except for the vacuums, because of worries about insurance risks. Thus the lawn mowers are the old-fashioned push variety. "When people see that, their faces hit the ground," Mr. Ashby said. "But I grew up pushing a mower across four lots before I could go to Little League, and so I know they'll be better people for using a push model."
Two brothers and a friend happened in one day and checked out every rake in the library. Then they organized an informal lawn-cleaning business. "That was very enterprising of them," Mr. Ashby said, "but that's not the purpose of the tool program. It's for people to take care of their own homes."
Tools are lent for a week at a time, but given the economic pinch in the community, fines for overdue tools have not been levied. "Most of these people are borrowing tools because they can't afford to buy them," said Wendell Cherry, the director of the library. "So how can we charge them?"
Darkness was bringing a glow in the sky, and Rafael Llamos still had plenty to do. The basement of his home had the framing in place, but there were walls to come and myriad finishing touches. He was building a family room for his wife and three children. This was their first house, and with the budget tight, the hand tools at the library had been indispensable.
"The tool program has meant a lot to me," Mr. Llamos said. "It's not easy fixing up your first home. You stretch a dollar till it hollers. This idea ought to go on everywhere. Give the people tools and see them work."

GRAPHIC: Photo: With the help of Federal money, the public library in Wyandanch, L.I., began a tool-lending program two years ago. Richard Ashby, who runs the program, provided Hope Anderson with a lawnmower. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WYANDANCH (NY) UNITED STATES (66%); CALIFORNIA, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: TOOLS; LIBRARIES AND LIBRARIANS PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); LIBRARIES (90%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



648 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: New Power, Old Troubles in Trenton

 BODY:
The Republicans have won overwhelming control of New Jersey's Legislature, and an overwhelming obligation to use it responsibly. They seized both houses from the Democrats by promising to roll back unpopular tax increases. Suddenly empowered, they're talking big. Reality says they should start thinking small.
Gov. Jim Florio, who seized office from the Republicans in 1990, launched his administration with a bold $2.8 billion tax hike. It made the state's income tax more progressive, raised and broadened the sales tax and infuriated a large body of voters. 
 The Republicans will have veto-proof majorities in both houses for the two years remaining in Mr. Florio's term. He obviously must yield to some compromises. But the governorship in New Jersey is more powerful than in most other states; he need not capitulate while the office is still his.
At this stage, both parties are playing games. Some Democratic leaders, while still in charge, want to terminate the entire Florio tax package as of July 1, thus creating a huge deficit for the Republicans to close. Such cynical politics would be irresponsible.
Mr. Florio has also teased the Republicans by conceding he might be wrong in opposing two constitutional amendments to curb the Legislature's power -- term limits for legislators and authority for popular voting on initiatives and referendums. Republicans tend to favor such curbs when they're in the minority, but not when they have control; his ploy puts them on the spot.
Meanwhile, Republicans talk about undoing what Mr. Florio has accomplished in equalizing school aid and reducing auto insurance premiums. They should focus instead on the problems they have created for themselves by promising tax cuts.
Their commitment to cut the 7 percent sales tax back to 6 percent, where it was before, will cut revenue by $600 million. Also, this year's gimmicky sale of state roads to the Turnpike Authority can't be repeated -- $400 million gone.
What spending would the Republicans chop? They don't say, and probably don't know. They are banking on economic recovery to help boost revenues, but optimistic assumptions are no substitute for hard facts. Faced with the same unpleasant choices that Mr. Florio faced, they will find that it's easier to rant than to rule.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LEGISLATURES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDITORIALS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SALES TAX (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); VETO (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INCOME TAX (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); TERM LIMITS (74%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (64%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (62%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



649 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: No Energy Bill This Year? Good

 BODY:
A glittering pedigree guarantees nothing, as the sponsors of the Senate's energy bill discovered. The bill came to the floor with the imprimatur of President Bush and many powerful Democrats. It failed to survive a procedural vote. The country has reason to be grateful. It was a bad bill.
The main reason for the defeat was a provision opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. As some senators noted, there are other places to find oil at far less risk to the environment. Furthermore, the provision symbolized the bill's mindless bias toward energy production as opposed to conservation. 
 A sound energy strategy would consist of a few simple components.
 Energy taxes -- stiff gasoline taxes, for example -- that reflect energy's social costs and that encourage efficiency and conservation.
 A larger Strategic Petroleum Reserve, to cushion temporary disruptions.
 Serious research into clean and competitive alternatives to fossil fuels. That doesn't mean repeating the costly synfuels boondoggle. It does mean searching for renewable energy sources like solar power and controlled nuclear fusion -- a field in which Europeans, operating with larger research budgets, have made breakthroughs.
The bill contained a handful of useful ideas. But mostly it offered a vision for the next year, not the next century. And by taking tax hikes off the table, the Senate forced itself into second-best strategies that are complicated and contradictory. The bill's preamble, for example, grandly pronounced the need to reduce greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide. But the bill itself provided generous incentives to the very fuels, including coal, that produce these gases.
With one big exception -- a provision asking states to let utilities make money by promoting conservation rather than consumption -- strategies for encouraging efficiency got short shrift. Why? Many people, including Mr. Bush's top advisers, seem convinced that efficiency is the sworn enemy of economic growth.
Conservation does exact a cost. But the cost is affordable, and it doesn't stop growth. Between 1973 and 1986, total U.S. energy consumption remained level, and carbon dioxide emissions actually dropped, even as the economy expanded by 40 percent. And the benefits of, say, cleaner air are not measured in conventional gross national product figures.
The House has broken the Bush proposal into bits and pieces and may have several different bills ready before adjournment. But there will be no energy legislation this year unless the Senate redraws its bill, which seems unlikely. Still, the Senate's failure has produced useful lessons to guide the next attempt at a national energy strategy. Keep it simple. And make it balanced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (93%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KEEP IT SIMPLE SOFTWARE (ARVADA, COLORADO) (51%); KEEP IT SIMPLE TECHNOLOGY INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; ALASKA; ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (93%); ALASKA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; CONSERVATION OF RESOURCES; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (85%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GASOLINE (76%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); CONSUMPTION (75%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (75%); CLIMATE CHANGE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); TAX LAW (74%); BUDGETS (74%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (71%); OIL EXTRACTION (71%); WILDLIFE (71%); TAX INCREASES (69%); FUEL TAX (56%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



650 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Ukraine Marches Out

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine

 BODY:
"Unprincipled" is the word used to describe President Bush by Mykhailo Horyn, a former political prisoner and founder of Rukh, the Ukrainian independence movement. "We prefer Thomas Jefferson."
Fighters for a Ukraine free of Russian imperial rule are still smarting at Mr. Bush's speech in Kiev this summer blasting "suicidal nationalism" and touting the Gorbachev center. 
 That misreading of the forces of history in his "chicken Kiev" speech not only made one American President appear to be anti-liberty, but jeopardized our relations with an emerging European power.
Ukraine (the article "the" is dropped when referring to a country, not a province) is the great, hobnailed boot that will drop on Dec. 1 on top of Moscow center's pretensions to empire. On that day of referendum, at least two out of three Ukrainians are likely to vote to assert their country's national sovereignty. On that day, the Soviet "union" will die.
The courageous early move of the Baltic states was the key to disunion, but the departure of Ukraine is the sledgehammer blow. Imagine the United States without its southeastern quadrant; subtract the old Confederacy from our map to get an idea of what an impact on Russian colonialism the separation of Ukraine's 52 million people and productive capacity will have.
On the overnight train from Moscow to Kiev, the visitor gets a notion of the potential richness of the land. Black loam, intensive cultivation and a friendly climate add up to food production and economic power as soon as frustrated farmers are given transportation and the incentives of private property and personal gain. This is potentially France, not Bangladesh.
We should shake free of our old questions (What will independence do to the Soviet Union? How will Russia survive without its breadbasket?) and address the new: What sort of nation will Ukraine be?
Strongly nationalistic, for openers. The word "Ukraine" means "borderland"; its Catholic west faces Europe, its Greek Orthodox east faces Asia. To win the coming referendum, the Ukrainians in the west have been actively selling the Russian-speaking population in the east (including those in the Crimea, a Black Sea gift to Ukraine from Khrushchev) on the glories of nationhood.
Opportunistic, too. The candidate leading the race for the presidency is Leonid Kravchuk, a longtime Communist subservient to the Kremlin and silent during the coup who has undergone a miraculous conversion to independence. He has stolen the Rukh opposition's platform, and if he gets away with the flip-flop, it will be a measure of the populace's desire for freedom from Moscow without too much change at home.
And Ukraine may spell trouble. American policy makers worry about plans announced in Kiev for a 400,000-man army, but that is a third of the Red Army troops now stationed here and may be a device for shipping the Russians home while keeping Ukrainian troops employed. The real trouble will be in enticing the new nation into giving up its nuclear weapons.
Even with milk in Kiev still suspect after the Chernobyl metldown, Ukrainian politicians, are not eager to give up the Soviet nuclear missiles located on their territory. Privately, some Kievans say that these weapons are bargaining chips for Russian cooperation on oil-for-grain trade and for Western help.
The center, as the poet Yeats predicted, cannot hold. We should stop supporting Moscow center and stop lecturing the Ukrainians on the need to ship the missiles to responsible Russia. That simplistic Bush-Gorbachev approach, typical of the offensive "chicken Kiev" speech, won't work.
Instead, as Russia's Foreign Minister, Andrei Kozyrev, hints, Washington should negotiate through the center's paper union with Russia, Ukraine and the other nuclear republics to dismantle land-based ICBM's until a level is reached at which the only missiles remaining happen to be on the Russian republic's soil. The criterion need not be insultingly geographic to bring about that stabilizing result.
Complex? You bet. But with Ukraine as a player, Washington will have to stop wishing for the good old days of union dictatorship.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UKRAINE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UKRAINE (USSR) UKRAINE (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); FRANCE (77%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); AGRICULTURE (64%); ARMED FORCES (60%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



651 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
'America, Be on Guard'

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
A sigh of relief: That is the first reaction to the result in Louisiana. David Duke lost, and we can put aside our worst fears. America is not so susceptible to the virus of racism.
But it is not really an occasion for relief when a man who as recently as two years ago openly peddled Nazi propaganda wins nearly 40 percent of the vote in an American state. 
 It is not an occasion for relief when a former leader of the Ku Klux Klan can master the techniques of modern politics so well that for hundreds of thousands of voters he is a hero, the voice of their frustration.
And it is not an occasion for relief when it takes weeks of effort, local and national, focused on a single election, to defeat such a man. If this had been just one of many significant races around the country, would the attention and the money have been there to fight David Duke?
"America, be on guard!" Edwin Edwards told a New Orleans crowd celebrating his victory. He said Louisiana had "rejected the demagogue," but the country could face "another assault of bigotry" in the Presidential campaign.
Yes it could. Mr. Duke got campaign contributions from 46 states. A finance report he filed at the end of October said that 47 percent of the $1,370,667 he had then received in contributions came from people outside Louisiana.
Newspapers found some of the out-of-state contributors and asked why they liked David Duke. The answers tell us a good deal about public feelings these days.
Gerard Nadeau, 74 years old, a retired engineer in Adams, Mass., contributed $50. He told Chris Black of The Boston Globe:
"The Republicans take care of the rich, the Democrats take care of the blacks and David Duke takes care of the whites. No one else is for the whites. I think civil rights have ruined this country. Black people don't want to work. They are taking over all the housing projects. This country is ruined . . ."
John E. Carlson, 61, of Marstons Mills, Mass., retired from the Air Force, said: "This country is becoming a third-rate nation. What kind of country is this when Bush pushes a free-trade bill that takes all the businesses out of the United States?"
Michael DeBeck of New York, who said he was a teacher, told Dennis Hevesi of The New York Times that Mr. Duke was saying "that there is something basically wrong with our system of government, that taxes are getting out of hand, that the laws we have are definitely discriminating. He is willing to address the mounting welfare thing."
Mr. DeBeck objected most vigorously to affirmative action. "White people are not being given a fair shake these days," he said.
The comments show how effectively Mr. Duke touched people's feelings -- feelings that often have little to do with the facts. For example, President Bush is of course not proposing a trade bill to move all businesses out of the United States.
Welfare is another area where resentful emotion overwhelms truth. Mr. Duke was cheered for saying that high welfare payments encourage babies. In Louisiana welfare pays an additional $11 a week per child.
The racial and nativist feelings come through most strikingly. Again, facts are irrelevant. Affirmative action for women and minorities has virtually nothing to do with unemployment or other economic stress felt by white males. But there must be someone to blame for the misery that millions are suffering.
Mr. Duke was only following in the footsteps of respectable politicians. Ronald Reagan told and retold his tale of a "welfare queen." George Bush waved the bloody shirt of "quotas."
But there is something special, something incredible about Americans voting in large numbers for an admirer of Adolf Hitler. Less than 50 years ago Americans died fighting the unmitigated evil of Nazism. To know that many today would overlook a politician's attachment to that evil, or would believe his thin claims to have found redemption, is to know something is deeply wrong in this country.
"We've been sending a message," Mr. Duke said as he conceded defeat in Louisiana. "Next year, you'll have the message being expanded all over the nation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON GLOBE (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (75%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: DUKE, DAVID E (STATE REPR); LEWIS, ANTHONY DAVID DUKE (94%); EDWIN WASHINGTON EDWARDS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



652 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Similarities to 1987, and Significant Differences;
Market's Message: No Recovery Yet

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The sudden 120-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average on Friday ended a week in which new economic data seemed to provide convincing evidence that the current recession is not behaving like other post-World War II recessions -- and that the much-anticipated economic upturn is still weeks or months away.
Many factors, apart from the economy, undoubtedly contributed to the late-afternoon selloff, among them a bill in Congress that would put a cap on credit card interest rates, a ceiling that would hurt bank profits. But the gloomy economic statistics certainly provided the appropriate backdrop. 
 "After last week's numbers, not even an optimist like myself can talk of a gathering momentum in the economy that is building toward a recovery," said Stephen S. Roach, a senior economist at Morgan Stanley & Company. In half a dozen interviews with Wall Street economists, many of whom brief stockbrokers and sales representatives, the message was the same: the economy is dead in the water.
The two most convincing numbers on this count -- made public on Friday morning -- showed that consumer confidence had recently deteriorated and that business inventories had risen. The former means consumers are not in the mood to buy, and the latter that manufacturers had produced more than retailers could sell and, as a result, production would have to be cut back.
The Bush Administration, the Federal Reserve and many economists have been counting on a different course of events. Until recently, Americans appeared to be consuming more than the nation's manufacturers were producing. To meet demand, merchants sold from goods stockpiled in their warehouses, and for seven straight months those stockpiles shrank.
Manufacturers cautiously increased production during the summer and early fall to keep up with what seemed to be more consumer buying. The optimists' great hope was that companies would soon have to pay more overtime and hire more workers. This new income, in turn, would lead to more buying, more production and more hiring, and the economy would grow again. That has been the pattern in most recoveries.
Then, on Friday morning, the Commerce Department reported that inventories had risen sharply in September. Not only was it the first rise in two months, but the biggest since August of last year, a month after the recession started. Most important, much of the increase was among retail stores. The new production had stayed on shelves, unsold, raising the prospect of production cutbacks and future layoffs.
"Businesses were trying to keep a lid on inventories, and the September numbers suggested that they failed," said Robert Giordano, director of economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "One or two months ago, we were in a situation that if demand had not faltered, companies would have started to raise employment, because they could not work existing employees more hours. We were very close to a virtuous upturn in the business cycle, and it was nipped in the bud. Now the question is: How long will the stagnation last?"
 
Other Disappointing Data
 The September inventory figures might, of course, be revised upward a month or two from now. Such statistics are often changed as more information trickles in from the thousands of companies surveyed. But the Commerce Department's September inventory rise seemed to be in line with other data announced last week.
The nation's auto makers, for example, reported on Wednesday that car sales in early November had fallen to an annual rate of 5.7 million vehicles, from a rate of more than 6 million in most of September and October. Some auto manufacturers have already announced production cutbacks for the fourth quarter, which means layoffs or less overtime for many workers.
And on Thursday, the Commerce Department reported that retail sales in general, apart from autos, had failed to grow in October, the third consecutive weak month.
"As soon as I saw those inventory numbers, I right away talked to my sales force and said the probability of a slow recovery was disappearing and the risk was increasing of either no growth or a dip back into recession," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at C. J. Lawrence, a Wall Street investment house.
 
Drop in Consumer Confidence
 The consumer confidence numbers were also a big blow. The University of Michigan's Institute for Social Research, which polls Americans on job security and buying plans, sent advance word to those who subscribe to the monthly surveys that early-November polls had shown a sharp drop in the confidence index -- to 70.7 from 78.3.
The news spread quickly through Wall Street, confirming an earlier report from the Conference Board, a business organization. The Michigan Institute and the Conference Board produce the most widely followed consumer confidence surveys, and while the Conference Board had reported a sharp drop in its index for October, the Michigan survey had not shown a similarly sharp drop until the early-November numbers became public on Friday. The Michigan numbers ended lingering hopes that the Conference Board's gloomy October survey might have been a fluke.
There was other bad news last week. Unemployment insurance claims rose to their highest level in months. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's index of business activity in the region, an early measure of recent economic activity, produced its first negative reading since February. The oil rig count, a measure of exploration activity, fell to its lowest level in months. And American Airlines announced a multibillion-dollar cutback in capital spending for new planes -- a decision that could hurt the Boeing Company's so-far-robust operations centered in the Seattle area.
Perhaps most important was the stock market, which has been a source of optimism about the economy as it reached record highs in recent months.
"The stock market has been such an important glue for the positive case for recovery, that if the Dow Jones average falls below 2,700, that could itself produce a dip back into recession," said Edward S. Hyman, president of ISI, an investment house. "Until now, the market has kept spirits up."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 1991, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day yesterday analyzing declines of more than 100 points in the Dow Jones industrial average on Fridays in the last five years omitted two and listed one erroneously. The average fell 108.35 points on Friday, Oct. 16, 1987, and 140.58 on Friday, Jan. 8, 1988. Oct. 19, 1987, when the Dow fell 508, was a Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Seeking Clues In Previous Tumbles" shows weekly closes of the Dow Jones Industrial average from '87 to '91 (Source: Datastream) (pg. D1)
 
Table: "How Friday's Dow Decline Measures Up" shows top 10 point and percentage drops in the Dow Jones Industrial average (Source: Associated Press) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (69%); MORGAN STANLEY (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); RETAILERS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LAYOFFS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SALES FORCE (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); SECURITIES BROKERS (67%); OVERTIME (67%); WORLD WAR II (57%); INTEREST RATES (55%); CREDIT CARDS (55%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1991



653 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 18, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Dinkins, in South Africa, Widens Economic Efforts

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Winding up a six-day trip he called "one of the most profound experiences I've ever had," Mayor David N. Dinkins announced today a package of economic programs involving New York City businesses.
 But the trip's last day held a final disappointment for the Mayor as well, as a brief meeting at Jan Smuts Airport with Foreign Minister Roelof F. Botha was canceled without explanation at the last moment, according to The Associated Press. 
Before coming here the Mayor had said that he wanted to meet officials of the white-minority government to press the cause of change in this country torn for more than four decades by apartheid. He also said he wanted to tell them directly of his support for continued economic sanctions against the country until an interim government was established to draft a constitution for a new, nonracial government.
 But earlier efforts to schedule a meeting also did not pan out, and Mr. Botha and President F. W. de Klerk were both on a trip to Israel and Taiwan until tonight.
 
A Grant From I.B.M.
 The Mayor had set as a goal for his trip the promoting of economic ties between his city and South Africa. And at a news conference before their departure, the New York City officials and business people who accompanied the Mayor announced a series of partnerships, internships, pilot programs and other informal relationships with blacks and white businesses in South Africa, including a $700,000 grant from I.B.M. to bring school principals to New York for training.
 The New York City Housing Authority will provide apartments and jobs to train five South Africans selected by the African National Congress in how to manage public housing and it will raise private funds to fly them over. The city's Health Department will meet with South Africans on problems like AIDS, domestic violence and alcoholism, and the Finance Department will share information on how to collect taxes and make municipal budgets with blacks who have never done so.
 Major South African companies agreed to provide paid leaves of absence for black employees to come to companies in New York for managment training in one program, while the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey will help run another. And the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn will provide copies of the new New York City Charter, and the legal arguments leading up to it, to help black local civic organizations in their negotiations on forming new municipal governments.
 
'Links for the Future'
 Mr. Dinkins said the efforts would be "links for the future" of a post-apartheid government.
 He said it was more than appropriate for the city government to help in such a way, though it was already busy confronting problems of its own.
 "Our country has shown an interest in assisting countries around the world, and there is nowhere in the world that has a legalized system of white supremacy," the Mayor said. "It seems to me this is quite appropriate."
 On Saturday night, Mr. Dinkins attended a dinner at the home of the chairman of the African National Congress, Oliver Tambo, who left a hospital bed to play host. The Mayor and his wife Joyce were dressed in African garb and were given a traditional ceremony of homecoming, in which a sheep was slaughtered and its blood daubed on the soles of their feet in a sign of communion with humankind and a leaf placed on their heads in communion with nature.
 Afterward, Mr. Dinkins termed it one of the most moving days of his life, along with his wedding and the births of his children and grandchildren.
 
'Raw Courage'
 Speaking of his long-planned, once-postponed, much-questioned trip, the Mayor said that "the single biggest thing, for me at least, was the raw courage" of black South Africans living under tremendous oppression and poverty.
 "Instead of hopelessness and despair, these people cling to the hope that there will be a new day of freedom," he said.
 The Mayor seems to remain deeply embittered over criticism of the trip, which ranged from questions by civic groups about his efforts to raise money for it by soliticing contributions from private businesses, to his initial decision -- later reversed -- not to pay his own way, to the size of his entourage, to a suggestion by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato that the city would be better off if Mr. Dinkins simply came to South Africa and stayed.
 
Political Impact
 Asked if he thought such criticism would hurt him politically, he responded with equanimity, "If it does, I can't undo it."
 On the other hand, when asked if it might help him politically, he said, "It might, yes, it might."
 The Mayor said he thought it was "not logical, not fair, not proper for people to criticize me for coming to this particular location," when they had not criticized other mayors for taking foreign trips to places important to them.
 Asked if people had done so because he was the city's first black Mayor, he said: "I don't know. You all figure it out."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 19, 1991, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Mayor David N. Dinkins's trip to South Africa included an erroneous report from The Associated Press about the Mayor's scheduled meeting with the South African Foreign Minister at Jan Smuts Airport. It was not canceled; Mr. Dinkins met with the Foreign Minister for 45 minutes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; NEW YORK CITY SOUTH AFRICA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (66%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (50%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (50%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S; BOTHA, ROELOF F (MIN) FREDERIK WILLEM 'F W' DE KLERK (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1992



654 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Uranium Industry Hurt by Imports

BYLINE: By Matthew L. Wald

 BODY:
SHARPLY increasing its exports of uranium to raise cash, the Soviet Union has dealt a blow to the American uranium industry.
The price of a pound of yellowcake, a lightly processed form of uranium ore, has slumped to $7 from a peak of nearly $12 in the summer of 1990. Low though the price is, experts say it may go still lower, because of the unusual economics of the nuclear fuel business. Normally if a commodity's price falls, customers buy more, and the higher demand helps to stabilize prices. But the reactor construction business is moribund, and no one in the United States is likely to break ground on a new reactor because the cost of fuel is cheap. And the customers, as regulated utilities, are unlikely to make bold purchase decisions, for fear of being judged imprudent by regulators if the market turns against them later. 
 The current $7 price "is well below even the marginal production cost of the most efficient producers in the world," said James C. Cornell, a uranium expert in the Stamford, Conn., office of Nukem, a German trading company.
Crying foul, the domestic uranium producers filed a petition in Washington earlier this month, contending that the Soviets were dumping yellowcake -- selling it for below its fair-market value. The Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union joined the protest.
The complaint, filed with the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission, says imports of yellowcake from the Soviet Union have increased to more than six million pounds last year, from 190,000 pounds in 1989, and now account for about 17.3 percent of American consumption. In the first eight months of this year, imports of Soviet yellowcake reached more than 5.5 million pounds.
In response to slack demand, sellers are apparently trying a big push. At Northern States Power, based in Minneapolis, which operates three reactors, David P. Austin, superintendent of nuclear fuel procurement, said dealers had come to him "asking how low would the price have to get before we would consider buying material."
According to the dumping complaint, American production of uranium has fallen to 8.9 million pounds, from nearly 44 million pounds in 1980, while employment in the industry has plummeted to 1,333 from 19,000.
At Uranium Resources Inc., a Dallas-based company that has two million pounds of annual capacity, half of it idle, Joe H. Card, the vice president of marketing, said his company was insulated for a time by fixed-price contracts.
"There's no way I can replace those contracts," he said. "I can't compete, even being what I consider to be the lowest-cost producer in the United States." Some companies can outlast his, though, because they make yellowcake as a byproduct of fertilizer production or gold mining.
When the new wave of imports hit, he said, the industry was only beginning to recover from overproduction in the 1970's, brought on by inflated estimates of how many nuclear reactors would be built.
Another major domestic producer is Freeport McMoran Resource of New Orleans, which had no comment beyond the text of the complaint.
The uranium industry has its defenders. On the Senate floor earlier this year, Malcolm Wallop, the Wyoming Republican who is the ranking minority member of the Senate Energy Committee, said it was ironic that utilities buy advertisements promoting nuclear power as an antidote to dependence on foreign oil and are now dependent on foreign uranium.
But a supply crunch of the kind that sporadically hits the oil market seems unlikely in uranium. At Allied-Signal Inc., one of two American companies that converts yellowcake into a liquid for enrichment, Brian H. Grace, manager of marketing, predicted of the exporting countries, "in many cases they'll have to produce it because it's of such impact to their economies."
In many states, the cost of uranium is reflected in customers' monthly bills, through a fuel adjustment clause. But the effect on customers is likely to be small. At Commonwealth Edison, the nation's largest nuclear operator, Gary Wald, a spokesman, said nuclear fuel costs ran about six-tenths of 1 cents per kilowatt-hour, and that yellowcake represented only about one-quarter the cost of the fuel. The rest is in the cost of conversion of yellowcake to a liquid form for further processing, sorting out the uranium isotopes, a process called enrichment, and then fuel fabrication.
So if the cost of yellowcake fell by half, it would come to less than a tenth of a cent per kilowatt-hour. And the drop in the spot market will take time to work its way through to the contract market, which accounts for about 70 percent of sales.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: URRE (NASDAQ) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (63%); SIC1094 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: URANIUM RESOURCES INC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (96%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URANIUM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DUMPING (TRADE TERM) EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); URANIUM MINING (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); FERTILIZER MFG (72%); PETITIONS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); FERTILIZERS (65%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (65%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



655 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
K Mart Net Climbs 3.4%

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TROY, Mich., Nov. 18

 BODY:
The K Mart Corporation said today that third-quarter earnings rose a slim 3.4 percent because of the weak economy.
K Mart, The nation's No. 2 retailer behind Sears, Roebuck & Company said net income rose to $109.5 million in the quarter ended Oct. 30 from $105.9 million in the period a year earlier. Earnings per share fell, however, to 50 cents from 53 cents, because the average number of K Mart's shares outstanding rose nearly 10 percent. Sales rose 6.4 percent in the quarter, to $7.97 billion from $7.49 billion. 
 On the New York Stock Exchange, K Mart shares gained 12.5 cents each today, closing at $41.875.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KM (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: K MART CORP KMART CORP (93%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (91%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: K MART CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MICHIGAN, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); RETAILERS (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



656 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Czechoslovaks' Big Stock Gamble

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PRAGUE

 BODY:
Some describe it as a daring leap into capitalism, others as a gambling game akin to a parimutuel. In the end, Czechoslovakia's plan to give ordinary citizens stock-buying coupons for big nationalized industries may prove to be a dose of both.
Similar programs have been proposed in Poland and in the newly independent Baltic states. But while the Baltics' privatization plans are only in the discussion stage, and Poland's draft legislation foresees distributing vouchers to mutual funds that would in turn offer shares to the public, only the Czechoslovak system affords ordinary people the chance to pick and choose companies themselves. 
 Western experts advising the Government are alert to the risks, as are Czechoslovak economists. Earlier this month, the Czech regional government ruled -- against strong objections from the national Government -- that it would postpone for at least two months, to the end of January, the deadline for approving companies to participate in the program. The Czech Minister for Privatization, Tomas Jezek, said the delay was necessary to sort out legal problems and difficulties in evaluating the assets of many companies up for sale.
 
'Educating People Quickly'
 "Under the Czechoslovak system, the stakes are higher for the shareholder," said Daniel J. Arbess, a lawyer with White & Case, a New York-based firm, who advises the Czech Government. "The potential for mistakes is higher.
"The scheme requires educating people quickly. The concern is that some may be educated the hard way."
Vaclav Klaus, Prague's Finance Minister and the architect of the Government's economic policy, asserts that there is no alternative to the coupon system. He argues that the public lacks savings to buy the companies and that the Government wants to move fast with privatization.
"We have to be impatient; we have no other choice," Mr. Klaus said last month in a speech to American businessmen visiting Prague.
The plan involves transforming state-held companies into corporations whose shares will be held by a Government property fund. Any Czech or Slovak 18 years or older can put down 1,000 crowns, which is about $35 and roughly a week's average salary, for a voucher that can be exchanged later for company shares.
The investor can pick the companies, and the value of the shares will be determined later under a complex formula involving the estimated value of the company's assets and investors' demand. In most cases, about a third of the company will go up for bidding, with the rest reserved for purchases by management, foreign investors or the Government.
 
Lining Up for Vouchers
 Initially, the Government intends to part with 200 of the roughly 1,700 state enterprises that are required by law to submit privatization plans. The list will be published in January.
Czechoslovaks began lining up at post offices for their vouchers last month. While it is too early to judge demand, Government economists estimate that about half of the eight million eligible citizens will take part, though there have been signs that interest could be dampened by the plan's complexity.
Risk is another reason some citizens are reluctant to take part. Since the program does not offer fresh management or capital, some companies may eventually face bankruptcy, leaving shareholders with worthless pieces of paper.
"Lots of people don't really understand it," said Lubos Drapal, a retired engineer. "But they can get advice from banks or friends, or just gamble."
In a recent survey by the weekly Mlady Svet, people interviewed in Hradec Kralova, east of Prague, confessed puzzlement. Others said they would pick familiar industries like electronics or construction that were sure to take off. Still others despaired of finding any gems. "I don't know any company capable of staying alive and good enough for me to invest in," Jan Kaspar, a 22-year-old electrician, was quoted as saying.
To inform the public better, the Government has begun a promotion campaign. A recent column in the daily Slobodne Slovo urged investors to learn about the investment plans of companies and the size of their outstanding loans, especially to the Soviet Union and to third world countries. Televised English lessons, which have proliferated since Communism collapsed and the nation's focus shifted to the West, feature investment jargon. On a recent night, a teacher went over sentences like "Is every shareholder entitled to a vote?" and "Does every shareholder have a no-loss guarantee?"
Such queries may prove more than academic.
Czechoslovakia, like other former Soviet-bloc countries, suffered decades of Communist mismanagement that left a business landscape cluttered wih the bones of industrial dinosaurs. These large conglomerates typically have few good product divisions, and some are clogged with outmoded equipment producing uncompetitive goods. Companies are often saddled with large debts, sometimes to Soviet customers that cannot repay. Many face huge cleanup bills for decades of environmental neglect.
 
Inside Information
 Local managers have access to inside information. Foreign investors can use armies of accountants or personal ties to former Communist managers to paint a full picture of a company's condition. But for ordinary investors, obtaining information will be a challenge, given the infant status of the financial press in post-Communist Czechoslovakia and no real disclosure laws.
"It reminds me of the years I worked with race horses," said Jan Urban, an editor of Lidove Noviny, a daily, and a former dissident who worked several years at a race track after his anti-Communist activities got him dismissed as a high school teacher. "You don't understand how it works, but you bet on the horses anyway."
Weak disclosure requirements are only one flaw. The system lacks a framework of investor protection.
Mr. Arbess, the American lawyer, said: "In their drive to create a free market, in our view they overlooked an important element, a certain degree of regulatory infrastructure and disclosure rules to give people the information to enable them to make rational choices. What is likely to happen, there will be a free market, but those with inside information, like company managers, willl have a natural advantage."
Already several companies are under investigation, together with foreign investors, for improper reporting of assets and revenues. Mr. Klaus, the Finance Minster, is under pressure to enact a "dirty money" law that would require investors to disclose the sources of their investment capital, a measure he opposes as a brake on privatization.
Lubos Rezabek, a senior adviser in the Czech republic's ministry for economic policy and development, said that all businesses scheduled for privatization were required to publish a prospectus with basic information, like sales, profits and debt, and that no endangered companies would be offered. "We are not putting up candidates for bankruptcy," he said.
But he conceded that disclosure rules were not anchored in the law, but existed simply as Government guidelines. He advised ordinary investors who mistrusted their business acumen to rely on investment bankers or fund managers.
Under the plan, banks or even ordinary citizens can start mutual funds, buying and selling shares with vouchers entrusted to them. One of the few requirements is a capital base of one million crowns, about $35,000, an amount low enough that even some Prague taxi drivers could raise it.
Mr. Rezabek acknowledged the risks. "In a way, it is a lottery," he said, "But on the other hand, what you enter is low, so the loss is not that large."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Czechoslovakia has begun a program to give citizens coupons that can ultimately be used to obtain stock in big nationalized industries. People lined up last month at a post office in Prague to pick up their vouchers. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); 

COMPANY: WHITE & CASE LLP (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CZECHOSLOVAKIA CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); POLAND (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRIVATIZATION OF INDUSTRY PRIVATIZATION (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (77%); NATIONALIZATION (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%); 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN VACLAV KLAUS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



657 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Business Scene;
Testing the Limits Of Pay Restraints

BYLINE: By Louis Uchitelle

 BODY:
A STRIKE and a lockout have partly shut down Caterpillar Inc. in a labor dispute that highlights a new turn in the long-running process of holding down workers' wages so that American industry can be competitive in world markets. Caterpillar has clearly become competitive against almost any rival. So now the question is: Should wage restraint continue, to allow an already-efficient company to get a leg up on competitors, here and abroad?
Put more broadly, the issue is whether corporate America, after a decade of holding down wages, should turn to other methods for improving competitiveness -- better management techniques, for example, or more emphasis on research and product development. Caterpillar says its own advantage has come in part from just such efforts. But holding down labor costs keeps a permanent place in the Caterpillar formula. 
 "A company like Caterpillar, which has not given up an inch of market share, has had to put some limits on how fast incomes can grow to stay competitive," Donald V. Fites, Caterpillar's chairman, said in an interview. "That is essentially what these talks are all about."
Mr. Fites referred to contract talks with the United Automobile Workers, representing 16,000 Caterpillar employees, most of them in Illinois. On Nov. 4, the union struck two plants, trying to pressure the company into compromises. Three days later, the company shut other operations, to pressure the union. And there the matter stands: no formal bargaining and 8,000 people out of work.
The impasse has national significance because the U.A.W. is trying to end the compromises on wages and benefits that characterized the 1980's. It is insisting upon an old union principle: that labor costs should be the same for each company in an industry and, therefore, not a competitive factor requiring concessions. In the 1950's and 1960's, that principle was widely accepted in master industrywide contracts covering steel, rubber and trucking, for example, or in nearly identical contracts signed by each company in an industry.
But these uniform agreements eroded in the 1980's, as foreign competitors that paid their employees lower wages and used less costly labor practices gained strength. In response, numerous American manufacturers won labor concessions to improve their competitive positions. In doing so, they often ended up with contract terms that also differed from their American competitors'.
"Uniform agreements will never return," said Audrey Freedman, a labor economist at the Conference Board. "Competition is so diverse and open-ended that unions are under pressure to consider special situations in every negotiation."
Still, the U.A.W. has resisted the erosion of uniform agreements, on the ground that they are a bulwark against "letting American wages fall to some third world level," as Jerry Lazarowitz, the U.A.W.'s research director, put it.
More than other unions, the U.A.W. has maintained the tradition in its main arena, the Big Three auto makers, although with some slippage. And now it is trying to hold the line among companies in Caterpillar's huge industry, broadly defined as including tractors, agricultural equipment, heavy-construction vehicles and diesel engines.
Having recently signed a three-year labor agreement with Deere & Company, the U.A.W. wants Caterpillar to sign an identical contract, as it has in the past. But Caterpillar is balking, offering less than Deere on several fronts -- health insurance, for example, would no longer be fully paid by Caterpillar, and wage increases for lower-echelon workers would be less than upper-echelon raises.
Among other arguments, Caterpillar says that its main products -- tractors and construction equipment -- are more oriented toward export than Deere's farm machinery, and Caterpillar therefore deserves lower labor costs. The company insists that its labor costs are higher than those of some domestic competitors, among them Cummins Engine and Detroit Diesel, and certainly higher than its main competitor's, Komatsu Inc. of Japan. The U.A.W. challenges the Komatsu claim. Wage rates in general in Japan are slightly higher today than in the United States.
The struggle at Caterpillar is complicated by the overall economic downturn. The company's worldwide sales and those of its competitors have fallen, and Caterpillar is losing money. Rising health-care costs also weigh heavily on the negotiators.
But the main issue remains: Should Caterpillar, having achieved parity with competitors, resist a uniform contract and thus try to get its labor costs lower than Deere's, only to have Deere, in turn, ask for concessions? So far, neither side shows signs of giving quarter on this bedrock issue.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (94%); CATR (PAR) (94%); CAT (SWX) (94%); CAT (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC CATERPILLAR INC (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LOCKOUTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); MARKET SHARE (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (69%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



658 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: A.T.& T. Plans to Offer Faster Data Transfer

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
A.T.& T., the world's largest telecommunications company, announced yesterday that it was offering a new form of data transmission nearly 30 times as fast as current methods.
Known as frame relay, the service will substantially speed the transfer of text, numbers and images among banks, hospitals, insurance companies and others whose fast computers have outpaced the capacity of telephone lines to transfer data quickly to remote offices. 
 Frame relay's usefulness is confined to data transfer, so it is expected to appeal mainly to large business and institutional customers. But perhaps frame relay's real significance is as a transition technology to an emerging method known as cell relay, which is 2,770 times as fast as current methods.
Cell relay, available in perhaps three to five years, can carry voice, video and data, and would make possible video-conferencing, conversations and the swift transfer of information simultaneously -- the "multimedia" promise of the Information Age that has been slow in coming.
 
Raising the Transfer Speed
 Current technology, known as X.25, transfers data at no more than 56,000 bits, or binary digits, a second. Frame relay works at 1.54 million bits a second and cell relay at 19.4 million bits.
In a demonstration for reporters, American Telephone and Telegraph Company officials transferred the detailed color image of a living human brain from a hospital computer in Atlanta to the conference room in midtown Manhattan. A kind of X-ray without an X-ray, the magnetic resonance image took less than a second to arrive in New York. If the same image had been transferred by X.25, it would have taken more than an hour.
A.T.& T. plans to make frame relay available early next year. Its principal competitors, MCI and U S Sprint, have already announced frame relay offerings for next year. Also, companies like Wiltel in Tulsa, Okla., and the giant BT, formerly British Telecommunications, are also offering such services.
But A.T.& T. is by far the largest company in the nascent market and by that fact alone will sharply expand frame relay's availability. A.T.& T. has nearly 500 "points of presence," or physical locations where business customers can link to its network.
The Yankee Group, a high-technology consulting firm, estimates that the market for frame-relay service and equipment could total at least $721 million by 1995, but other analysts, like the Gartner Group, say the market may easily exceed $1 billion by then.
By waiting for its long-distance rivals to announce their plans, A.T.& T. forced them to show their hands, while still making a frame-relay offering at the same time as its competitors, said Berge A. Ayvasian, an analyst at the Yankee Group.
In the same news conference yesterday, A.T.& T. announced two other services, a telephone referral service now being tested by Domino's Pizza and an information access service for business executives and others with portable computers.
The referral service, known as Store Locator, would allow a company to offer a single easy-to-remember telephone number nationwide beginning with the prefix 950. Domino's, which is still market-testing the technique, would use it to allow a pizza customer to dial 950-1430 anywhere in the country and get the nearest Domino's store.
The laptop computer service, known as Information Access Service, would allow business executives on the road to dial a toll-free number, 950-1-ATT, and gain access to customized data bases.
Separately, Alex J. Mandl, A.T.& T.'s new chief financial officer and group excecutive, told securities analysts that the company's financial performance in the fourth quarter, ending Dec. 31, was being hurt by the recession. "We are disappointed with the sluggish economy and we are experiencing some effects from that," he said, but was not more specific.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T) AT&T INC (90%); YANKEE GROUP (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH CO INC (AT&T)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TULSA, OK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; TELEPHONES DATA TRANSMISSION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (78%); TELECONFERENCING (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); INSURANCE (72%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



659 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 368 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar's Decline Is Eased By Resurgence in Stocks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar fell against major foreign currencies yesterday, but traders said the slide was moderated by the rebound in the stock market.
Gold prices rose, with gold for current delivery gaining $1.50 an ounce of the Commodity Exchange in New York to close at $361. The Republic National Bank quoted a late bid of $361.50, also up $1.50 an ounce. 
 Many traders watched developments on the New York Stock Exchange, where the Dow Jones industrial average fell 120 points on Friday amid growing pessimism over the economy. Their anxiety was eased when the Dow steadied and gained of 29.52, closing at 2,972.72.
Robert Ryan, senior trader at the Bank of New York, said traders feared there would be a large decline in the dollar if stock prices had fallen further.
Dan Scherman, senior dealer at the Bank of Boston, added, "People were waiting for the other shoe to drop from Friday."
Mr. Scherman said the dollar saw little pressure after the Bank of France raised interest rates to support the French franc against other European currencies.
The dollar fell to 5.5055 French francs in New York trading, from 5.5365 late on Friday. In late European trading, the dollar fell to 5.4945 French francs, from 5.5985 late on Friday.
In London, the pound rose to $1.7915, from $1.7690 late on Friday. In late New York trading, the pound rose to $1.7900, from $1.7860 late on Friday.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.84 yen, closing at 128.63. Later, in London, it was quoted at a higher rate of 129.35 yen. In late New York trading, the dollar fetched 129.48 yen, up from 129.40 late on Friday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late rates on Friday, included: 1.6105 German marks, down from 1.6190; 1.4295 Swiss francs, down from 1.4365; 1,217 Italian lire, down from 1,224.50, and 1.12875 Canadian dollars, down from 1.13005.
Gold rose in London to a late bid of $360.60, from $355.60 an ounce on Friday, and in Zurich, it rose to $360.50, from $355.25 late on Friday. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose $4.33, closing at $360.56.
Silver rose in London to a late bid of $4.04 an ounce from Friday's $4.01. In New York, silver for current delivery fell to $4.020 an ounce from $4.021.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (77%); SWITZERLAND (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); ZURICH (72%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); JAPAN (77%); SWITZERLAND (72%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); ZURICH (72%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); GERMAN MARK (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



660 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Congress Gets Cold Feet On Cap for Credit Cards

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Momentum behind legislation that would put a cap on credit card interest rates dissipated today as lawmakers got cold feet about making a political point that risked damage to the stock market and possibly the economy.
In part, the turnabout resulted from vigorous arm-twisting by the Bush Administration and the banking lobby. But it came primarily from the fear of some Democrats, who at first saw the bill as a good way to embarrass President Bush, that they would be blamed for a fall in the market. 
 A House subcommittee postponed a session on the measure scheduled for this afternoon to give Democratic leaders time to work out a compromise, and some prominent senators who voted for the proposal last week said today that they were looking for a way to reverse course.
 
Legislation Is Expected
 Some sort of legislation may still be adopted this year like a commission study on credit card interest, a deadline for banks to show more competition on these rates or authority for the Federal Reserve to set maximum rates.
But lawmakers said they saw little chance that a measure would be adopted like the 14 percent ceiling on credit card interest that passed the Senate last week. Most banks now charge 18 to 20 percent on unpaid credit card balances.
Some analysts partly attributed Friday's sudden 120-point drop in the Dow Jones industrial average to the credit card legislation, and Bush Administration spokesmen encouraged that view over the weekend.
The change of tune in Congress is no doubt a relief to the President, who first broached the idea of lower credit card rates himself and then found himself in the position of potentially having to veto a politically popular measure.
 
Reflections Over Weekend
 Representative Esteban E. Torres, a California Democrat who heads the House Banking Committee's Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs, which was scheduled to begin drafting credit card legislation this afternoon, explained in an interview why he had decided to postpone the meeting.
"I reflected over the weekend on what happened in the stock market Friday," Mr. Torres said. After discussing the matter today with the House Democratic leaders, he continued, he decided to give "the Administration and my colleagues and the leadership more time to develop an agreement on what we're going to do."
The Speaker of the House, Thomas S. Foley, told reporters: "We're going to slow down on credit cards. I don't see any reason why we should rush forward without full consideration."
In the Senate, the Republican leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, one of the 74 senators who voted last week to impose the ceiling on credit card interest, said today that the Senate vote was meant mostly to send a signal to bankers that they should change their ways and voluntarily drop their rates.
"Probably, Congress should not try to involve itself in the marketplace," Mr. Dole said.
 
Bush Brought Up Issue
 The issue first arose last Wednesday when in a political fund-raising speech in New York, President Bush urged banks to lower their credit card rates. According to an Administration official, the idea of the President talking about credit card rates first came from Kenneth M. Duberstein, the White House chief of staff at the end of the Reagan Administration, who is now a political consultant in close contact with the President's top advisers.
The official said John H. Sununu, Mr. Bush's chief of staff, wrote the line into the President's speech at the last minute without consulting with economic advisers.
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the New York Republican, who was at the fund-raiser and who has long advocated low interest rates, wasted no time and brought the credit card legislation to the Senate floor for a vote Thursday. It was approved, 74 to 19, with only about half an hour of debate.
Senior officials like Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady immediately recognized that a mistake had been made. At a senior staff meeting Friday, Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said even talk about mandatory credit card rates was foolish, one official said. The White House announced its vigorous opposition to the measure, and over the weekend, Vice President Dan Quayle said in a television interview that the President would probably veto a bill like the one the Senate passed.
This afternoon, the President said he never meant to encourage legislation setting credit card rates but only to say that he favored low rates. At a session with a group of White House correspondents, Mr. Bush went on to say he was pleased that the legislation had been "slowed down considerably."
 
Lobbyists Go to Work
Meantime, banking lobbyists were flooding lawmakers' offices with faxes and telephone calls holding that major banks might fail if the interest they charged on credit cards was fixed at a lower rate. They also said that millions of Americans with less than sterling credit ratings would have their credit cards withdrawn.
Today, seven economists, who headed the Council of Economic Advisers in previous Administrations, wrote Congress saying that a mandatory ceiling on credit card rates "would have severe deleterious consequences for the economy."
In the House, Representative Torres said he was sympathetic to credit card legislation proposed by Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat. Mr. Schumer's bill would delay a cap for a period of time, perhaps a year or 18 months, to give banks time to bring their credit card rates more in line with other interest rates. At the end of the grace period, a blue ribbon commission appointed by the President and Congress would review the situation and determine whether banks were truly competitive in this area. If the commission found they were not competitive, the President would be required to impose a fixed rate on credit card interest.
The final details of the bill were being worked on tonight, and Mr. Torres said it might come before his subcommittee later this week.
 
D'Amato to Press for Bill
 In the Senate, Mr. D'Amato said he would continue to press for his measure. But even if it does not pass, he said in an interview, he has brought the matter of excessive credit card interest to everyone's attention with the result that banks would probably lower rates on their own.
Later, Mr. D'Amato gave a speech on the Senate floor and argued that his proposal had nothing to do with the drop in the stock market. Representative Edward J. Markey, a Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House subcommittee with jurisdiction over the stock market and securities matters, made the same point in a speech on the House floor.
The stock market fell, he said, because of "underlying macroeconomic conditions" and "mechanical factors," and to say the credit card legislation caused it was "like saying 2 plus 2 equals 22."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; STOCKS AND BONDS CREDIT CARDS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); VETO (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E GEORGE W BUSH (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



661 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Neglected Economist Honored by President

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR

 BODY:
For years, Friederich von Hayek was a prophet little honored in this land. In a 1944 best seller, "The Road to Serfdom," the Austrian-born economist warned the West that socialism -- whether German Nazism, Soviet Communism or the "gentler and kinder" British brand -- would inevitably lead to poverty and loss of liberty.
An ardent opponent of most government intervention in the economy, Mr. von Hayek, though respected for early contributions to monetary theory, was all but ignored by other economists for 30 years after World War II as Keynesian thought became a dominant intellectual force, the European social democracies boomed and the Soviet Union and other centrally planned economies scored impressive feats of industrialization. Even after he won the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science in 1974, Mr. von Hayek's following in the United States consisted mostly of a small band of monetary economists and libertarians. 
 With the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe, all that has changed. Mr. von Hayek's views on the economic inadequacies and political ills of central planning are now those of the mainstream. Yesterday, President Bush awarded the 92-year old Mr. von Hayek, a British citizen, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.
"More than almost anyone else in the 20th century, this guy was vindicated by the events in Eastern Europe," said Austin Furse, director of policy planning at the White House. Mr. von Hayek has a wide following among Eastern European economic reformers, he noted, including Vaclav Klaus, the Finance Minister of Czechoslovakia.
Once described as "articulate, austere and infinitely urbane," Mr. von Hayek was born in 1899 into a Viennese family of academics and civil servants. He eventually left for the London School of Economics, where he lectured throughout the 1930's and 40's. When Keynesian thought triumphed and his own reputation as an economist went into eclipse, Mr. von Hayek turned to philosophy and psychology, which he first taught at the University of Chicago, then in Salzburg, Austria, and finally in Freiburg, Germany.
Conservatives have been urging President Bush, who picks the Medal of Freedom winners himself, to honor Mr. von Hayek. The Nobel laureate's son, a British physician, was on hand at the ceremony yesteray to accept the medal on behalf of his father, who lives in Freiburg and has been ill for several years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Friedrich August von Hayek, Medal of Freedom (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (87%); AUSTRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (58%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; MEDAL OF FREEDOM (US) NOBEL PRIZES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); VON HAYEK, FRIEDRICH AUGUST GEORGE W BUSH (76%); VACLAV KLAUS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



662 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
New Mastercard Post To Experienced Banker

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
Mastercard International Inc. said yesterday that it had named William T. Sandalls, vice chairman and chief financial officer of Bay Banks Inc., Boston, to the new position of chief operating officer.
The company, which said that Mr. Sandalls would join Mastercard in December, added that he would have responsibility for the company's global payment system and would report directly to Alex W. Hart, the company's president and chief executive. 
 At Bay Banks, Mr. Sandalls, who is 47, has worked in a variety of management assignments, including posts in data processing, operations and employee benefits. He also directed the development of the company's business strategies in electronic banking, interstate banking and mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Sandalls, who is also a certified public accountant, went to Bay Banks in 1974 after working with Arthur Andersen & Company. He has been a member of the board of Mastercard since 1988.
In an interview yesterday, Mr. Sandalls expressed concern that the measure approved by the Senate to limit credit card interest rates to 14 percent would bring a sharp reduction in the availability of credit cards, which could disrupt the economy.
"From my experience as a banker, I think that having freely competitive markets is important, and to put arbitrary constraints on markets -- however politically appealing that might be -- in the long run does a great disservice to consumers," he said. "I think there is a problem with this kind of last-minute legislative effort to score political points."
On his new duties at Mastercard, Mr. Sandalls said he planned to work on the company's plans to develop a debit card and to help Mastercard, which is second behind Visa in the number of card holders. "I want to work to make Mastercard the preferred method of payment," he added. "Mastercard is doing well and growing very vigorously, particularly internationally. I want to work to continue that."
Mr. Sandalls is a graduate of Yale University and received an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School. He served as a naval officer from 1966 to 1970 with assignments in Vietnam and Washington. Mr. Sandalls is also chairman of Cirrus Syetem Inc., the international electronic banking network. He is married and has a son and a daughter.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William T. Sandalls Jr., Mastercard International (Mastercard International)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (95%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (95%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); VIET NAM (50%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC MASTERCARD INC (95%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASTERCARD INTERNATIONAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); VIET NAM (50%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); APPROVALS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (54%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; SANDALLS, WILLIAM T

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



663 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Lashes Out at Restrictions

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The oil industry has begun to talk tough on the environment, after recent setbacks, for the first time since the Exxon Valdez accident almost three years ago.
About 2,000 industry executives, here at the annual convention of the American Petroleum Institute, lamented that the Senate recently voted not to consider an energy bill that would have opened the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil exploration. Worse, they said, 11 Eastern states are rushing to join California in a new system of automobile pollution control, a program that the oil companies think will mean strict gasoline specifications. And they complained about the Clean Air Act of 1990, which mandates cleaner gasoline, and about laws intended to protect underground water supplies.
 
'Inefficient Diversions'
 Charles DiBona, the president of the institute, who has recently taken to referring to some new environmental regulations as "stupid," said in a speech to the convention, "There may have been times in the past when U.S. economic supremacy allowed this country to indulge in costly, inefficient diversions, but there won't be such times in the highly competitive world that lies ahead."
He added: "Inefficient regulation does hurt U.S. industries and working people. Plants will be driven elsewhere. Good jobs will be harder to come by."
The oil companies have long complained about the cost of environmental regulations, but most complaints were muted in the period of environmental concern after the grounding of the Exxon Valdez, the mass demonstrations on Earth Day and the passage last year of amibitious amendments to the Clean Air Act. That period of reticence appears to be over.
The institute's departing chairman, Allen E. Murray, chairman of the Mobil Corporation, said he thought the public mood was changing.
"There is no doubt that the environment is the issue of the decade, but people are beginning to realize that there will be trade-offs," he said at a news conference, citing the state of the economy. "I sense that we'll see a little bit of judgment. I hope it doesn't take harder economic times to do it."
The institute's new chairman, C. J. Silas, chairman and chief executive of the Phillips Petroleum Company, complained of "the amount of money we're spending to take care of emotional problems and not physical problems."
The attack on environmental initiatives was carried on by Margaret Thatcher, the former Prime Minister of Britain, who was the main speaker today. Mrs. Thatcher, who was once a research chemist, said oil company executives were as concerned as environmentalists about providing a clean environment for their children. But, she said, the country should "have solutions that are sound scientifically, and some of the ones proposed are not."
 
Security Issues Fade
 Another remarkable shift is the virtual end of talk about energy security, so prominent a year ago when Iraq was occupying Kuwait and the Soviet Union was still a world power.
"Environmental issues are replacing security issues in driving the oil industry," said Thomas G. Burns, manager of economics at the corporate planning and analysis department of the Chevron Corporation.
Adding to the gloom is the industry's lackluster financial performance. A survey released by the institute today said the net income of a group of 20 oil companies had fallen 51 percent in the third quarter, to $2.2 billion, from $4.5 billion last year.
But income last year was swollen by the increase in crude oil prices after the Aug. 2 invasion of Kuwait. For the first nine months of this year, net income was $11 billion, down 16 percent from $13.1 billion a year earlier. But oil did better than the rest of the economy over the nine-month period; a comparison group of 100 non-oil companies saw a 50.1 percent drop in income in that period, the survey found.
 
Low Returns
 But the industry's recent financial track record is poor. Arthur L. Smith, the chairman of John S. Herrold Inc., a consulting firm that evaluates oil properties, said the rate of return for oil companies, which was running at 20 percent at the beginning of the decade, was 2 percent last year.
"The numbers suggest that oil companies are in business for the public good, because no economic value has been created," he said.
A crucial question for oil companies is whether to invest in their refineries to produce cleaner gasoline that the Clean Air Act will require in years to come. The market for gasoline has been flat for years, and could decline if natural gas, electricity or methanol came into wide use. On the other hand, stricter environmental regulations could protect domestic refiners from competition.
"The international gasoline market is on the verge of a profound change," said Edward N. Krapels, president of Energy Security Analysis Inc., a consulting firm in Washington. The United States, with many different gasoline specifications, would turn into a "boutique market." It is not clear how many foreign refineries that now export to this country would make the investments to be able to continue to do so, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); MOBIL CORP (65%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; ALASKA; ARCTIC NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE UNITED STATES (94%); ARCTIC (92%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ALASKA, USA (94%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES; AIR POLLUTION OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (68%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MARGARET THATCHER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



664 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Up, Relieving Some Fear

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
The stock market steadied itself yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average regaining a quarter of the ground it lost in Friday's drubbing. Action on the New York Stock Exchange was hectic again, with volume surpassing even the heavy trading of the previous session.
After plummeting 120.31 points on Friday, its worst one-day loss in two years, the Dow regained 29.52 points yesterday, to 2,972.72. But much of the buying was concentrated in blue-chip issues; more Big Board stocks showed losses than gains. 
 Friday's plunge raised investor concerns about further losses, but Robert C. Walberg, an equity analyst with MMS International, said sanity had returned to the market. "It appears investors have learned from the 1987 and 1989 crashes, which afterward offered good buying opportunities," he said.
But investors' fears about the economy and its effect on corporate profits was still apparent, analysts said, in the focus on blue chips.
 
241.9 Million Shares Traded
 One trader noted that even with the market's sharp decline last week, interest rates are so low that stocks offer attractive returns in comparison.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 241.9 million shares, up from 239.3 million on Friday. Declining issues outnumbered those that rose by 989 to 723.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks, another gauge of blue-chip activity, was up 2.62, to 385.24, while the New York Stock Exchange composite rose 1.11, to 213.03.
Bank stocks recovered some of their losses and closed mixed, with Banc One, which had suffered recently, up 1 7/8, to 44 7/8. Chase Manhattan rose 3/4, to 17 5/8, and Wells Fargo jumped 2 3/8, to 62. The prospect that Congress might approve a cap on credit card interest rates, one factor in the market's unraveling, appeared less likely. Treasury Secretary Nicholas F. Brady said on Sunday that the measure would "never see the light of day."
The American Stock Exchange composite fell 1.44, to 379.47, while the Nasdaq composite rose 3.44, to 534.73, and the Russell 2,000 index, a measure of small-stock activity, was off a slight 0.07, to 181.65.
A fair amount of Friday's decline was options-related, Mr. Walberg said, and it may have made some issues more attractive.
"The market is back to its 200-day moving average," he said, "and to move higher it has to get above 2,975 on the Dow. Otherwise, technical selling will keep downward pressure on the market."
Technical portfolio managers place a great deal of emphasis on the 200-day moving average as an indicator of long-term trends.
Interest in stocks was not limited to certain sectors yesterday. Furthermore, investment firms reiterated buy recommendations on some stocks that had been beaten up on Friday. One sector that performed well was computers, including I.B.M., Apple Computer and Digital Equipment.
While drug stocks were up, biotechnology issues generally remained under pressure. Mr. Walberg said it might take a while for that sector to regain the trust of investors.
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading, said it had recorded 13 program trades yesterday, a normal amount for the first trading day after the expiration of index futures and options contracts. Collectively, the nine "buy" and four "sell" programs lifted the Dow by 10.62 points.
Birinyi also noted a fair amount of block buying, a signal that large professional investors were in the market, along with retail shopping by smaller investors in select issues. But it was the Mercks, I.B.M.'s, G.E.'s, Coca-Colas and Exxons that attracted the attention of buyers.
Ricky Harrington, director of equity investments for Marion Bass Securities, said the market was driven mostly by technical factors yesterday. He also noted that the overseas markets did not collapse before American trading began.
These factors were instrumental in yesterday's move higher, he said. "I think this is a technical recovery," he said, "and we could be headed lower at any time, maybe in the next few days, maybe in the next few weeks. A psychological change took place in the market last week and signals the start of a down trend."
Stocks with high price-earnings ratios are the most vulnerable, Mr. Harrington said, while stocks that have been out of favor, like utilities, will attract investors. He said he thought issues that had done well in the last few months were likely to be most vulnerable.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (81%); JPM (NYSE) (67%); JPM (LSE) (67%); 8634 (TSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (81%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (67%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (67%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (81%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (67%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TRENDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EQUITY RESEARCH (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



665 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
Talk of capping credit card interest rates turned an unwelcomed spotlight on one of the banking industry's richest businesses at a time when it can least afford the attention. [Page A1.]
There was less momentum behind legislation that would cap interest rates on credit cards as lawmakers got cold feet about making a political point that risked damage to the stock market and possibly the economy. [D9.]
President Bush said he believed the American economy was basically sound and that he planned no major new programs to stimulate growth, but he acknowledged that he was having trouble convincing the public that his policies were adequate. [A1.]
The oil industry has begun to talk tough on the environment, after recent setbacks, for the first time since the Exxon Valdez accident almost three years ago. [D1.]
 
Markets
Stock prices recovered, and the Dow posted a gain of 29.52 points, to close at 2,972.72. Action on the Big Board was hectic, with volume surpassing even the heavy trading of the previous session. Nearly 242 million shares changed hands. [D1.]
Prices of Treasury notes and bonds fell as the stock market returned to stability, but credit market participants said the drop was of minimal significance. [D16.]
The dollar fell against most foreign currencies, but traders said the slide was moderated by the stock market rebound. [D17.]
Soybean futures prices surged, leading the grain markets mostly higher amid revived hopes for a Soviet food-aid package and signs of stronger export sales. [D17.]
 
International
Can there still be such a thing as duty-free shopping in a new Europe in which there will no longer be internal borders at which customs duties must be paid? Yes, it is possible. But only until 1999. [D1.]
Czechoslovakia plans to give ordinary citizens stock-buying coupons for big nationalized industries. [D5.]
Western nations should grant debt assistance to the Soviet nation as it tries to weather the winter and reorder its economy, said Robert Strauss, the United States Ambassador. [A14.]
 
Companies
Salomon Brothers is dismissing as many as 135 professional employees, Wall Street executives said. Also, some 15 managing directors are expected to resign by the end of the year. [D1.]
A handful of wine producers have made organic wines since the early 1980's, but now their ranks have been joined by wineries like Gallo, Fetzer, Sutter Home and Buena Vista. [D1.]
A.T.&T. is offering a new form of data transmission nearly 30 times as fast as current methods. The service will speed the transfer of text, numbers and images among banks, hospitals and insurance companies. [D2.]
Midway Airlines asked a Federal judge to force Northwest Airlines to proceed with a buyout that would have kept grounded Midway in the air. [D4.]
 
Today's Columns
The labor dispute at Caterpillar highlights a new turn in the process of holding down workers' wages so that American industry can be competitive in world markets. Louis Uchitelle: Business Scene. [D2.]
By increasing its exports of uranium to raise cash, the Soviet Union has dealt a blow to the American uranium industry. Market Place. [D10.]
The first company to advertise condoms on network television was a surprise. Carter-Wallace showed a commercial for its Trojan Extra Strength brand; the maker of Ramses and Sheik condoms had been expected to be first. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); FUTURES (76%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); NATIONALIZATION (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); INSURANCE (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (64%); WINERIES (64%); WINE (64%); AIRLINES (62%); ORGANIC BEVERAGES (60%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: GEORGE WALKER BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



666 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Banks Uneasy at Focus on Credit Cards

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The debate in Congress that led to consideration of a cap on credit card interest rates subsided yesterday, but it turned an unwelcome spotlight on one of the banking industry's richest businesses at a time when the industry can least afford the attention.
As many of the nation's largest banks struggle with losses from commercial real estate loans, the credit card business was one of the industry's few bright spots. It accounted for a quarter of all bank profits and generated returns that have been double the amount banks strive to earn on their loans. 
 Yesterday on Capitol Hill, some Democrats got cold feet. After banks cautioned that cards might be revoked and the economy severely hurt, the Democrats backed away, fearing that an interest rate limit would expose them to blame for various economic ills. [Page D9.]
But as the threat of a Federal interest rate limit recedes, bankers face growing competition in the credit card industry from a range of companies that know a good deal when they see it: American Telephone and Telegraph, Sears, Roebuck and Ford.
What is more, in the midst of recession, income from credit cards is drifting down as more customers pay off their monthly balances and ease up on their buying on credit.
All of those factors are eroding credit card profit margins for banks. Now, many bankers look wistfully at 1989, when net profits from credit cards peaked at $4.11 billion, according to the Nilson Report, a California newsletter that covers the credit card industry, Those profits amounted to more than 26 percent of bank profits of $15.73 billion.
Last year, bank credit card profits slipped to $4 billion. This year, a further decline is expected, to $3.5 billion, according to the Nilson Report.
For many of the large banks that dominate the credit card industry, like Citibank and the Chase Manhattan Bank, profits have come from the widespread issuance of cards and the banks' ability to charge a high interest rate and annual fees on good customers that cover the losses on bad customers. But now that the 19.8 percent interest rate, which is widespread among large banks, has come under attack, bankers are wondering if they can continue with a business strategy that has part of their customer base subsidizing the rest.
A movement is under way that would provide lower interest rates for a bank's better customers, though the availability of the cards is spotty.
The mass mailings of cards over the last decade helped put 220 million Visa and Mastercards into three-fourths of American households. Those cards, combined with the nearly 1.1 billion credit cards issued by merchants, American Express and the Sears Discover card, are used to buy more than $400 billion of goods and services annually.
Visa and Mastercard are owned by the nearly 6,000 banks that issue their credit cards. The card companies help arrange for merchants to accept the cards, handle advertising and deal with communications between banks and merchants.
Data compiled by the Nilson Report show that the banks' profit margins, while healthy, are not nearly so wide as suggested by the difference between the 19.8 percent rate charged on many cards and the rates of less than 5 percent now offered by banks to savers on certificates of deposit and other savings accounts.
 
Less Than 19.8% Collected
 Effectively, the rate collected by banks is far less than the 19.8 percent because most large banks do not charge interest on the credit card bills that are paid in full. In fact, for about a third of all credit card customers who routinely use their cards for convenience, not credit, banks are in effect providing interest-free loans, since the banks make payments to merchants several weeks before the bank customer pays the credit card bill.
That means the effective rate collected by banks is only 15.44 percent, according to the Nilson Report. When combined with fees charged consumers and merchants and other income from collection of bad debts and sale of mailing lists, banks in the Visa and Mastercard business collect funds estimated at 20.18 percent of their loans outstanding.
Costs begin with the interest banks pay for money to finance their card business, estimated by Nilson at 7.41 percent of card loans outstanding. Costs increase by an additional 4.2 percent of loans from various operating expenses like data processing, collection of bad debts, postage, advertising and other administrative costs, with 4.94 percent absorbed by the cost of bad loans.
Thus, total costs equal 16.77 percent of loans outstanding. Subtracted from income of 20.18 percent, it produces a pretax profit margin of 3.44 percent, or 2.06 percent after taxes.
Although the 2 percent profit margin might seem slender relative to the 19.8 percent interest charged by many banks, it is a profit margin that pleases banks. The best-run banks in the country earn a profit of about 1 percent on every dollar of loans and other assets.
Many bankers and analysts say that if they allowed rates to fall, one way to do it is to wring more profit from customers who pay off their balances monthly.
Those customers, said Alex W. Hart, president of Mastercard International, are essentially break-even customers for banks. They do not account for any of the losses from bad loans that have climbed to nearly 5 percent of loans outstanding this year from 3.83 pecent last year, but neither do they provide any interest income, which accounts for more than three-fourths of all credit card revenue.
Moshe Ohrenbuch, a research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, a securities firm, said that banks "will need to charge differently so that customers who do not pay interest will pay a larger share of the cost of the card."
 
Higher Fees Possible
 He said banks might reduce their reliance on interest income by charging higher fees to merchants who accept cards or by reducing the time period when banks are in effect making an interest-free loan to consumers to 10 or 15 days from the existing 25 days.
To absorb the cost of defaulted credit card loans, many banks already make judgments about the riskiness of their customers.
"Basically, you charge a higher rate for more risky customers and lower rates for those who are not so risky," said Edwin P. Hoffman, president of Household International. At Household, one of the 10 largest issuers of credit cards in the country, rates range from 21 percent to 15.8 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "The Credit Card Balance Sheet" shows combined estimates for Visa and Mastercard in 1991 (Source: The Nilson Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: V (NYSE) (85%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); T (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (85%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); AT&T INC (55%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; BANKS AND BANKING; INTEREST (MONEY); CONSUMER PROTECTION; RATES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY CREDIT CARDS (94%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); RECESSION (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); EROSION (57%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (56%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



667 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1408 words

HEADLINE: THE HOSTAGE DRAMA;
2 Western Hostages Freed in Lebanon

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The Anglican envoy, Terry Waite, and an American educator, Thomas M. Sutherland, were released by their Shiite Muslim captors in Lebanon today, amid signs that the remaining Western hostages may be freed soon.
The release today of two of the longest-held hostages came after intense negotiations by the United Nations that have led to the freeing of four other Western hostages since August. It represents a dramatic leap toward ending the nearly eight-year hostage ordeal. 
 At an impromptu, chaotic appearance before reporters in Damascus after the release to Syrian officials, Mr. Waite said his captors had told him just before his release that they would free two American hostages, Joseph J. Cicippio and Alann Steen, in the next five days and the other American, Terry A. Anderson, the longest-held hostage, by the end of the month. [Excerpts from news conference, page A16.]
 
A Captor's Apology
 "This afternoon, when we were sitting together in our cell, chained to the wall as we have been chained to the wall for the last five years and, in some cases of Tom and others, for seven years -- 23 hours and 50 minutes a day -- one of our captors came in and told us that Tom and myself would be freed this evening," said the 52-year-old Mr. Waite, looking thinner, his hair grayer, than when he was abducted in January 1987 during a mediation effort on behalf of other hostages.
"He also said to me: 'We apologize for having captured you. We recognize that now this was a wrong thing to do, that holding hostages achieves no useful, constructive purpose,' " Mr. Waite said.
Mr. Waite said he did not know when two other Western hostages -- Heinrich Strubig and Thomas Kemptner, German relief workers -- would be set free. He did not mention Alberto Molinari, an Italian businessman who has been missing since 1985. Some Lebanese security officials have said they believe he is dead.
 
Remarks by U.N. Leader
 In brief remarks to reporters at the United Nations this morning, the usually cautious Secretary General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, said that both the groups holding the hostages and the Iranian Government "some time ago" had "offered" to release all of the hostages by Christmas.
The next move may be up to Israel, which has freed a number of Arab prisoners since August as part of the negotiations, but is still holding Sheik Abdul-Karim Obeid, an Islamic fundamentalist leader captured by Israeli commandos in southern Lebanon in 1989 and its most valuable bargaining chip.
Israel said tonight that it would not release any more of the 300 Arab prisoners in its hands until it receives word about the fate of an Israeli Air Force navigator who was shot down over Lebanon in 1986.
 
Roles of Syria and Iran
 The quickening pace of hostage releases also reflects the pivotal roles played by both Syria and Iran, which have much to gain by a resolution of the thorny issue. Teheran, which has considerable influence over the Shiite Muslim groups holding the hostages, is eager to improve its political standing in the West and rebuild its economy with extensive Western help. Syria, the main power broker in Lebanon and a player in the Middle East peace talks, has tried to move closer to the West with the breakup of the Soviet Union.
Both Mr. Waite, who had been held since January 1987, and Mr. Sutherland, who was taken captive in June 1985, appeared in both good health and good spirits as they addressed reporters under a portrait of President Hafez al-Assad of Syria. But their upbeat remarks also captured some of the pain they endured during their difficult captivity, as well as the changing sentiment of their captors about the value of keeping hostages.
 
'A Time of Joy'
 The White House press spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, described the release today as "a time of joy," and praised the United Nations and the governments of Iran, Syria and Lebanon for their assistance. But he also called for the release of the remaining hostages, adding, "Our joy is mixed, however, with deep concern over those who remain in captivity."
President Bush has repeatedly said he would not move to improve relations with Teheran until all American hostages are released. And even then, Iran's continuing support for international terrorism remains an obstacle in building the relationship, Bush Administration officials said today.
The two countries also continue to haggle in a special tribunal in The Hague over claims stemming from the seizure of the American Embassy in Teheran in 1979. The most nettlesome are Teheran's compensation claims for United States military equipment it says it paid for before the 1979 revolution but never received and claims of dual nationals against Iran.
"People are thinking about what to do, but it would be wrong to leap to the conclusion that we are about to restore relations or anything like that," said one senior Administration official. "But there may be some small steps in that direction once all Americans are freed and if the Iranians make some statement disavowing terrorism."
 
Major Is 'Delighted'
 In London today, Prime Minister John Major said he was "absolutely delighted" by the hostage release, and stressed that it was accomplished with "no backstage deals."
The release of Mr. Waite, the last British hostage, removes the most serious obstacle for an improvement in British-Iranian relations. Britain is now in a position to upgrade its diplomatic representation in Iran by sending an ambassador to its embassy in Iran, and to offer Iran much-needed financial help in the form of loans, credits, joint ventures and other commercial deals.
In his remarks today, Mr. Sutherland, a 60-year-old former Dean of Agriculture at the American University of Beirut, thanked the United Nations, Syria, Iran and Israel for their efforts on behalf of the detainees.
 
Israeli Role in Lebanon
 But in a thinly-veiled criticism of Israel's occupation of southern Lebanon, Mr. Waite described how he and the other captives had been living under constant shelling in the last year.
"All of us, all hostages, would plead with those who are holding the people of South Lebanon, innocent people being held as hostages, to release them soon, to put an end to this problem, to put an end to terrorism, and to find peaceful, humane and civilized ways of resolving the very complex problems that face the people of the Middle East," said Mr. Waite, special envoy for the Archbishop of Canterbury who over the years had successfully won the freedom of detainees in Iran, Libya and Lebanon before he himself was seized while trying to free American captives in Lebanon.
Mr. Perez de Cuellar had confided to colleagues last week that he expected all of the remaining hostages to be released together before the end of the month. United Nations officials said the release today, which they had known about for more than a week, was somewhat surprising. Still, the officials added, he is confident that the last hostage will be freed before he leaves office at the end of the year.
 
Condition of Anderson
 Mr. Sutherland offered fresh information on the condition of Mr. Anderson, who was chief Middle East correspondent for the Associated Press when he was abducted in March 1985. Mr. Sutherland, who said he spent most of his captivity with Mr. Anderson, said, "We left Terry Anderson about three or four hours ago in Lebanon and he is no longer chained to the wall, thank God, but he is still in a room that has very little fresh air and no daylight whatsoever."
Still, Mr. Sutherland said, "He is in very good health right now; he is in very good spirits," adding that the American journalist has written poetry during captivity, which he hopes to publish eventually.
Mr. Anderson is considered the captors' most valuable bargaining chip, both because of the length of time he has spent in captivity and the extensive publicity his plight has been given over the years, and the Bush Administration has assumed that he will be among the last to be released.
Both freed hostages were in such high spirits that they used their first public statements to crack jokes about each other.
"All I can say, though, about the English -- they take a hell of a long time to get things done," said Mr. Sutherland of Mr. Waite's attempts to free him. "He came to get me out of there about five years ago and it has taken him five years to get me out."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry Waite, left, and Thomas Sutherland, right, at a news conference yesterday in Damascus, Syria, after they were freed in Lebanon. With them was Josef Shakkour, Syrian Assistant Foreign Minister. (Associated Press) (pg. A1)
 
Photos of Terry A. Anderson, Joseph James Cipippio, Alann Steen and Mohammed Ali Hamadi (pg. A16)
 
Charts: "The Pieces of the Puzzle"
 
Westerners Missing in Lebanon
 
Americans
 Terry A. Anderson: The chief Middle East correspondent of The Associated Press, 44, has been missing since March 16, 1985. He is being held by Islamic Holy War.
 Joseph James Cicippio: The acting controller of the American University of Beirut, 61, has been missing since Sept. 12, 1986. He is held by the Revolutionary Justice Organization.
 Alann Steen: A journalism instructor at Beirut University College, 52, has been missing since Jan. 24, 1987. He is held by Islamic Holy War for the Liberation of Palestine.
 
Other
 Alberto Molinari: The 72-year-old Italian businessman, who lived in Beirut, has been missing since Sept. 11, 1985. His captors are unknown. Some Lebanese security officials have said that he is dead.
 Heinrich Strubig and Thomas Kemptner: The two German relief workers, 50 years old and 30, have been missing since May 16, 1989. Their captors are unknown.
 
Arab Prisoners
 
Held in Southern Lebanon
 About 300 Arabs are held either by Israel or its client militia in southern Lebanon, the South Lebanon Army. Most are Lebanese, but some are Palestinians. Most of these people are labeled terrorist by Israel. But some are clearly being held, or were kidnapped, as potential bargaining chips.
 Key among them is Sheik Abdel Karim Obeid, a Shiite clergyman and a leader of the pro-Iranian Party of God whom Israeli commandos kidnapped in 1989 from his home in southern Lebanon.
 Shiite groups say that the Israelis must release Sheik Obeid if there is to be any progress in the comprehensive hostage negotiations. The Israelis he will be the last to go free.
 Since early August, 66 prisoners have been released.
 
Held in Germany
 Two Shiite Muslim brothers, Mohammed Ali Hamadi and Abbas Hamadi, are imprisoned in Germany for hijacking, kidnapping and murder.
 Hostage holders in Lebanon have occasionally warned that freedom for the two German hostages hinges on the Hamadi brothers going free.
 Bonn says it will make no deals, but there have been reports quoting unnamed "pro-Iranian sources" that a swap agreement has been reached.
 
Missing Israelis in Lebanon
 Capt. Ron Arad, whose plane was shot down over Lebanon in 1986, is the only missing serviceman believed to be alive. Three others, First Sgt. Zvi Feldman, Sgt. Zachary Baumel and Cpl. Yehuda Katz, were in a tank crew battling Syrian forces in the Bekka Valley of eastern Lebanon early in Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982. Publicly, Israeli officials insist in learning what happened to them. Privately, they acknowledge these men are almost certainly dead.
 
Other Questions
 When Islamic Holy War released the British journalist John McCarthy in August, it demanded that all its "freedom fighters" be freed, in Israel and in Europe. Presumably, this means only the 300 being held in Southern Lebanon and not every Palestinian held in Israeli prisons since the start of the intifada. The same applies for Europe. It is not known who, other than the Hamadis, might meet this definition in other countries.
 
Iran's Claims
 
Missing Iranians in Lebanon
 Four Iranians have been missing in Lebanon since 1982 after being captured at a checkpoint of the Christian Lebanese Forces.
Iran insists the four are alive, but diplomats in Beirut have been quoted as saying that they are probably long dead. A leader of the Christian militia, Samir Geagea, has said that they were killed soon after being stopped, but he has not produced their remains.
 
Iranian Assets
 The Iran-United States Claims Tribunal in The Hague was set up under the Algiers accords that resolved the Teheran hostage crisis in 1981. Its purpose is to settle claims between the two governments and claims of citizens of each country against the other country's government. Work of the tribunal continues slowly.
 The most contentious issue involves claims filed against Iran by people who have dual citizenship, in both Iran and the United States. Iran maintains that Iranian citizens should not be allowed to pursue claims against Iran, even though they might also be United States citizens.
 Another major category of pending cases involves military equipment sold to Iran before the fall of the Shah. Iran says it paid for much of this equipment but never received it. (pg. A16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%); LEBANON (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; GREAT BRITAIN; LEBANON ; ISRAEL; IRAN; SYRIA ISRAEL (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); SYRIA (94%); LEBANON (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (91%); NETHERLANDS (79%); IRAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (94%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

SUBJECT: ANGLICAN CHURCHES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; HOSTAGES; KIDNAPPING; SHIITE MOSLEMS HOSTAGE TAKING (96%); RELIGION (92%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); CHRISTMAS (64%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; WAITE, TERRY; SUTHERLAND, THOMAS M ; OBEID, ABDUL KARIM (SHEIK); ANDERSON, TERRY; CICIPPIO, JOSEPH; STEEN, ALANN TERENCE HARDY 'TERRY' WAITE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



668 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Starts to Return Haitians Who Fled Nation After Coup

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 18

 BODY:
With more than 1,200 Haitian boat people being held aboard United States Coast Guard cutters, the State Department announced today that it was starting to send them back, resuming a repatriation program suspended since a violent coup overthrew Haiti's elected Government on Sept. 30.
The decision came after a weekend in which Coast Guard ships picked up hundreds of new refugees from small boats off northern Haiti, bringing the total number of Haitians in United States custody to nearly 1,800. In addition to those still at sea, officials said, about 500 refugees are being temporarily housed at the United States' military base at Guantanamo, Cuba.
 
'A Very Tough Thing'
 Officials said the decision to resume forcible repatriation of the Haitians, which quickly drew attacks from human rights groups, was made out of exasperation after weekend Voice of America broadcasts to Haiti urging listeners not to set out for United States shores failed to stem the flow of would-be refugees. 
 The State Department officials said that the first of seven Coast Guard cutters returning Haitians would land in Port-au-Prince today.
"This is obviously a very tough thing to deal with," said an official who asked not to be identified. He said that the billeting of the boat people on Coast Guard vessels had been conceived as an interim solution.
"Our objective was to try and take care of people leaving Haiti without sending a signal to others on the island that it is O.K. for them to try to come to the United States," he said.
In recent days, the official added, the United States had persuaded several other countries in the region, including Belize, Venezuela, Trinidad and Honduras, to accept some of the boat people picked up by the Coast Guard.
 
Deaths at Sea Feared
 "We regret that it now appears that the safe-haven plan will not be sufficient to deal with the magnitude of the problem," said a statement by the State Department announcing the decision to resume repatriations. "We fear that any action by the United States to bring large numbers of Haitians without claim to asylum to the United States would bring a massive outflow resulting in large numbers of deaths on the high seas."
Coast Guard officials announced today that seven of the recently intercepted Haitian boats carried more than 100 people. One seized on Nov. 14 was a 40-foot vessel of questionable seaworthiness with 238 people aboard, they added.
Officials estimate that as many as half of those who undertake the ocean voyage to the United States die at sea.
A United States official said that the refugees now in Guantanamo would most likely be distributed among the countries that had agreed to receive limited numbers of Haitian boat people.
Those living aboard United States ships, the official said, will be interviewed in accordance with a 10-year-old agreement with Haiti. Those who do not meet standards for admission to the United States, where they can petition for political asylum, will be returned to Haiti beginning today, he said.
"Most of these people do not have a legitimate fear of persecution," the official said, adding that so far about 50 had been allowed into the United States to apply for asylum. "Those who do will be allowed into the United States."
The official said that economic conditions were the main reason most of the refugees left Haiti.
While officials in Washington sought to play down the risk faced by returning Haitians, the repatriation announcement immediately drew an angry reaction from some members of Congress and immigration rights groups, who noted the continuing climate of violence in Haiti since the overthrow of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
"This would not have happened if the refugees were Europeans," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, who said he had been scheduled to visit Guantanamo on Sunday to inspect refugee conditions until the trip was suddenly canceled. "It's the difference, I guess, between exporting oil and bananas."
 
'How Can We Justify It?'
 Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida, also sharply criticized the decision to return to the repatriation policy that was in effect before the coup. "Returning Vietnamese, Russian Jews, Cubans, Nicaraguans and others back to the repressive countries from which they were fleeing would have been unthinkable," he said in a statement. "How can we justify it for Haitians?"
Jocelyn McCalla, director of the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees, a New York-based group, said, "What is most distressing is that the United States has clearly not extended recognition to the military junta in Port-au-Prince and is not even talking to them."
"There are clearly a good number of people who go back and suffer persecution or go into hiding," Mr. McCalla said, rebutting United States claims that returned refugees were unlikely to face punishment in Haiti.
Another group, the Lawyers Commitee for Human Rights, said it was contemplating legal action to bar future repatriations. "The cursory interviews by immigration officials are incapable of determining which individuals merit protection," said Arthur C. Helton, a lawyer with the group, commenting on the screening of refugees at sea.
Some diplomats suggested that in addition to the growing burden on the Coast Guard's resources, the decision to begin repatriating Haitians grew out of a belief that progress was near in efforts led by the Organization of American States to restore Haiti's elected Government.
"Haiti is a democracy, even if it is a suspended democracy right now," one official said. "The O.A.S. mission there just came out with good results and we hope to see negotiations begin this week for a return to constitutional order."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (90%); BELIZE (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST GUARD (USCG); STATE DEPARTMENT US COAST GUARD (94%); US COAST GUARD (94%); VOICE OF AMERICA (56%); VOICE OF AMERICA (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST GUARD (USCG); STATE DEPARTMENT US COAST GUARD (94%); US COAST GUARD (94%); VOICE OF AMERICA (56%); VOICE OF AMERICA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CUBA (90%); BELIZE (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; GUANTANAMO NAVAL BASE (CUBA) COUPS (92%); REFUGEES (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); NAVIES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



669 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: DESPITE WAGE TAX, CONNECTICUT FACES GAP, WEICKER SAYS

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Less than three months after the largest tax increase in state history and the introduction of a wage tax for the first time, Connecticut's budget is already out of balance and headed for another deficit, Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. said today.
The projected gap, about $175 million, is a bit more than 2 percent of the budget of $7.6 billion, but state lawmakers said the psychological impact would probably be bigger than the actual size of the problem. 
 Mr. Weicker made the announcement on the opening day -- indeed at the very moment of the opening ceremony -- for a special legislative session to consider repealing the income-tax law.
Mr. Weicker's proposed solutions, mainly a series of spending cuts and fee increases that lawmakers had considered and rejected earlier this year, seem destined to further disturb what was already expected to be a turbulent session. And the numbers provide statistical fuel for both sides in the debate about how sick the state's economy really is and what role the tax system has played or could play in aggravating or easing the recession's effect.
 
Less Profit, Less Tax Revenue
 Administration budget officials said that corporate income taxes, sales taxes and capital gains taxes were all producing lower revenue than predicted when the budget was passed in August. The 1991-92 tax revenue from capital gains is expected to be $74 million less than anticipated in the budget, mainly because of the state's weak real-estate market; more people are taking capital losses when they sell homes and businesses.
"What it really says is that the Connecticut economy is in a lot of trouble," said Representative Jonathan Pelto, a Democrat from Storrs and a deputy majority leader in the House of Representatives. "The Connecticut state government is now going to have to make cutbacks of far greater extent than they ever have before regardless of whether you're for an income tax or against an income tax."
 
'Old System Doesn't Work'
 Mr. Weicker, who insisted that the timing of his budget announcement was entirely coincidental to the opening of the special session, said the new numbers about the budget gap underscored the weaknesses and unpredictability of all the state's taxes except the new one on wages, where collections are just about on target. Mr. Weicker, a third-party Governor with no party allies in the Legislature, proposed the tax last February, then vetoed three legislative budgets that did not have it.
"Were it not for that income tax, the state of Connecticut would not have its head above water," Mr. Weicker said. "There is no more ducking the fact that the old system doesn't work."
But leaders of the movement to repeal the income-tax law immediately charged that the new numbers bolstered their own case that withholding money from residents' paychecks would strangle the state's consumer-driven economy. Even though the expected $63 million shortfall in sales-tax collections announced today could not be directly pinned to the wage tax -- the numbers date from September, before payroll withholding began on Oct. 1 -- tax opponents said the anecdotal evidence pointed to an even further retrenchment in consumer spending since then.
"The Governor's economic theories have stunk from day one," said the House minority leader, Representative Edward C. Krawiecki Jr., a Republican from Bristol who has led the repeal drive. "You simply cannot siphon hundreds of millions of dollars out of taxpayers' paychecks and then expect consumer sales to remain constant."
 
Repealers Would Cut Spending
 Mr. Krawiecki said his repeal group would file its alternative bills on Tuesday. He gave few details, except that they would eliminate the wage tax and include an overall tax cut and sharply reduced spending.
Mr. Weicker, who had opposed even the idea of the special session, described the new fiscal troubles in a news conference in the Capitol as the voice of the House clerk echoed over loudspeakers summoning the House members to their chamber.
Connecticut, which increased state spending by double-digit amounts through much of the 1980's as the state's military and real-estate businesses boomed, fell hard to earth beginning about 1989. The use of short-term or one-shot revenue solutions aggravated the problem, building toward a shortfall of more than $900 million for the budget year that ended on June 30.
But the new 4.5 percent flat-rate income tax, which broke a decades-long taboo and ended Connecticut's status as one of only 10 states that kept wages tax-free, has not ended the state's struggles either. In September, Mr. Weicker announced that 3,700 state workers would have to be laid off and thousands of others given reduced pay and hours because the unions had refused to make concessions. That number has shrunk as some unions have settled, but most have not. In October, more than 40,000 residents went to the Capitol to protest the income tax.
 
Much of Plan Unpopular
 And given that lawmakers have already said no to almost all solutions that Mr. Weicker proposed today to the $175 million shortfall, further strife seems almost certain. One of the largest categories of spending cuts, for example, totaling more than $40 million, involves aid for local schools and property tax relief.
Mr. Weicker also suggested eliminating a $3 million program that helps pay for health services in private and parochial schools. Thousands of students in plaid skirts and blazers descended on the Capitol in waves last spring to protest those cuts when they were first suggested.
The Senate President pro tempore, John B. Larson, an anti-income-tax Democrat from East Hartford, says he believes that the Governor's new figures make repeal more likely.
Leaders of repeal in both houses claim a majority to overturn the income tax, but are still short of the two-thirds needed to override Mr. Weicker's promised veto.
Opponents of repeal, however, say that the Governor gave them new justification.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; LEGISLATURES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; SALES TAX; INCOME TAX ; CAPITAL GAINS TAX BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); SALES TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); VETO (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK; WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



670 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
2 LEBANON HOSTAGES FREED
An American educator, Thomas Sutherland, and the special envoy of the Archbishop of Canterbury, Terry Waite, were released by their Lebanese captors, amid signs that the remaining Western hostages might soon be freed. Page A1
 
Terry Waite went to Beirut on behalf of others, only to become a captive himself. A17
 
An incredible three days for Thomas Sutherland's family. A16
 
Israel will not release Arab prisoners until it hears the fate of a missing airman. A16
 
U.S. OUSTING HAITIAN REFUGEES
With more than 1,200 Haitian boat people held aboard Coast Guard cutters, the United States said it was starting to send them back, resuming a repatriation program suspended since the Sept. 30 coup. A1
 
A PLEA TO HELP THE SOVIETS
Warning of possible social upheaval in the Soviet Union, Ambassador Robert S. Strauss urged Western nations to grant debt assistance as the nation tries to weather the winter and reorder its economy. He emphasized that these were his personal views. A14
 
LITTLE REACTION ON CHINA
China's rebuff to Secretary of State Baker over human rights and arms sales and appeared unlikely to spur action on legislation to limit China's trading status. A8
 
TROUBLED SOUTH AFRICAN PARTY
The liberal Democratic Party, which has watched its longstanding opposition to apartheid pre-empted by President F. W. de Klerk, is fighting to survive as a viable political alternative in South Africa. A15
 
Kenya's Foreign Minister called the American Ambassador a racist. A3
 
Much of Pakistan is caught up in worsening lawlessness. A17
 
European countries offered to oversee a Yugoslav evacuation. A7
 
NATIONAL A20-22, B10-12
 
PROPERTY RIGHTS DEBATE
The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether landowners are constitutionally entitled to compensation when the government bars all development in the interests of public safety or welfare. A1
 
CUTTING OFF A DEATH APPEAL
Justices refused to consider an appeal by a death row inmate who sought the right to present evidence that his victim's family did not want him to die. B11
 
CREDIT DEBATE SUBSIDES
The debate in Congress that led to consideration of a cap on credit card interest rates subsided, but it turned an unwelcome spotlight on one of the banking industry's richest businesses at a time when it can least afford the attention. A1
 
A BULLISH GEORGE BUSH
Speaking to White House reporters, President Bush insisted that "some fairly good fundamentals" were present in the economy and that he had no plans to try to stimulate its growth. A1
 
DUKE RAISES HIS SIGHTS
Two days after being defeated in the Louisiana governor's race, David Duke said he might enter several Presidential primaries in 1992. B10
 
WILDER SEEKS JACKSON VOTE
Gov. L. Douglas Wilder of Virginia has adjusted his Presidential campaign in an effort to secure the votes of blacks who supported Jesse Jackson. B10
 
CAPITOL TUG OF WAR
A turf battle escalates between Congressional committees and a review panel headed by Vice President Dan Quayle. B12
 
SMALL RECOVERY FOR STOCKS
The stock market steadied and the Dow Jones industrial average regained a quarter of the ground lost in Friday's drubbing. The Dow ended the day 29.52 points higher, to close at 2,972.72 amid heavy volume. D1
 
NORIEGA AND DRUG MONEY
A witness testified that General Noriega received $10 million from the Medellin drug cartel for his permission to ship 20 tons of cocaine from Panama to the United States. A20
 
A RIPE ONE FOR POE
In Gilmanton, N.H., the mystery of the missing tombstones has been solved. And the stones were where many people thought they were all along. B12
 
DELAY IN HEARING
Facing the loss of its Government authorization, an organization that evaluates colleges and universities requested a delay in a Federal hearing on its status. B12
 
Former smoker loses his suit against a cigarette maker. B11
 
U.S. appeals ruling that lets V.M.I. deny admission to women. A22
 
 
METROPOLITAN Digest, B1
 
UNBALANCED BUDGET, AGAIN
After the largest tax increase in state history and a tax on wages for the first time, Connecticut's budget is already out of balance and headed toward a deficit, Governor Weicker says. The projected gap is about $175 million, a bit more than 2 percent of the $7.6 billion budget. A1
 
ANTI-CRIME LOTTERY LAGS
A special anti-crime lottery game that was to pay for beefed-up security at public schools is bringing in only about half the money city officials expected, and despite Mayor Dinkins's pledge, the receipts will not be spent on new youth programs aimed at reducing crime. A1
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
Science Times C1-13
The Maya emerge from new translations as a warlike people. C1
A whisper-light solid called 'frozen smoke.' C1
Food hoarding among the animals takes many forms. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-22
Musicians take their case for more pay to the audience. C15
French films in Sarasota, Fla. C15
Art: 2 London retrospectives. C15
Phillips Collection head quits. C16
Word and Image: CBS buys rights to "Davis Rules" from ABC. C16
"Eve's Tattoo," by Emily Prager. C20
 
Fashion Page B13
 
Obituaries B14
Gustav Husak, former president of Czechoslovakia
 
Sports B15-21
Baseball: Mets talk with Murray's agent. B21
Columns: Berkow on ticket prices. B15
Football: Giants take show on road. B15
Tennis: Navratilova wins at Slims championships B15
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A24-25
Editorials A24
The October Surprise.
The November development.
What to do about water.
Implants and image.
Letters A24
A. M. Rosenthal: The Louisiana lesson. A25
Russell Baker: Great Caesar's scalp. A25
Robert Satloff: Arafat and Assad, together again. A25
Barbara Roper: Stop the clock on swindlers. A25

GRAPHIC: Photo: After 30 years, a graveyard mystery is solved. B12 (Rick Friedman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); HAITI (92%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); ISRAEL (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); HAITI (92%); KENYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (84%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); REFUGEES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); COUPS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); RELIGION (73%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); PROPERTY LAW (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (70%); LIBERALISM (68%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



671 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1026 words

HEADLINE: High Court to Weigh Payments to Owners Of Regulated Land

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether landowners were constitutionally entitled to compensation when government bars all development in the interest of public safety or welfare.
Because the Court has been closely divided over the constitutional implications of land-use regulation, this case, involving a state-imposed ban on beachfront development along the South Carolina coast, may give Justice Clarence Thomas an opportunity to influence the development of an important area of the law. 
 In speeches and articles before he joined the Court, the newest Justice indicated that he had considerable affinity with a group of conservative legal thinkers who believe that the modern Supreme Court has given inadequate weight to the constitutional safeguards of private property.
The subject is a complex and important one, as the Federal, state and local governments increasingly seek to regulate development not only for reasons of esthetics and life style, but also out of concern for the environment and public health.
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution provides that private property may not be "taken for public use without just compensation." It is clearly a "taking," for which compensation is required, when a government uses its power of eminent domain to take possession of private property.
But the Supreme Court has also held that land-use restrictions that leave property in private hands while stripping it of economically productive uses may amount to a "regulatory taking," for which compensation may also be required.
The dimensions of this doctrine are unclear and hotly disputed, with conservative judges generally seeking to enlarge the definition of a "regulatory taking" while liberals try to confine it narrowly to give the government a freer regulatory hand.
In a 5-to-4 decision four years ago, the Court ruled that a Pennsylvania law limiting the amount of coal that could be extracted at certain locations was not a taking because coal mining in those areas was a threat to public safety. The Court said in a majority opinion by Justice John Paul Stevens that because no one had a right to create a "nuisance" on private property "the state has not 'taken' anything when it asserts its power to enjoin the nuisance-like activity."
The South Carolina Supreme Court relied on that decision earlier this year in the ruling that the Justices agreed today to review. The state court ruled that South Carolina did not have to compensate owners of beachfront property who lost the right to develop their land under South Carolina's new Beachfront Management Act.
 
State Court's Ruling
 The South Carolina Supreme Court, noting that the Legislature had found that beachfront development hastened erosion, said the purpose of the development ban was to prevent serious public harm to the state's environment and economy. Consequently, it said, the regulation should not be considered a taking, just as the Pennsylvania coal mining regulation was not a taking.
The South Carolina ruling was appealed by a landowner, David H. Lucas, who had bought two waterfront lots on the Isle of Palms that were zoned for single-family houses, shortly before the Beachfront Management Act took effect.
Under the new law, he could build no permanent structures on his property. He challenged the law as a taking and won a $1.2 million judgment in the state trial court. That judgment was overturned by the South Carolina Supreme Court.
In his appeal to the United States Supreme Court, Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council, No. 91-453, Mr. Lucas is arguing that the state should not be able to evade the constitutional compensation requirement by calling a proposed development a "nuisance." More narrowly, even if there is a "nuisance exception" to the compensation requirement, he argues, his proposed development was not a nuisance.
The case may provide an occasion for the Supreme Court to overrule its 1987 decision in the Pennsylvania case, Keystone Bituminous Coal v. DeBenedictis. That 5-to-4 decision included a vigorous dissenting opinion by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist. Since then, two Justices who were in the majority, William J. Brennan Jr. and Thurgood Marshall, have retired.
But the case is unlikely to provide an occasion for the Court to address the Constitutional implications of laws dealing with historic landmarks, because it concerns only regulations that deprive landowners of any use of their land. Landmark laws, by contrast, limit the economic return available from a historic property by barring modifications to the structure, but they allow some return.
In another development today, the Justices asked the Bush Administration to present a legal position on whether an American hospital worker, who asserts that he was falsely arrested and tortured by the Saudi Arabian police while working on contract in a Saudi Government hospital, should be permitted to sue the Saudi Government in Federal court.
 
Saudis Ask for U.S.'s Help
 After a Federal appeals court panel in Atlanta ruled earlier this year that the lawsuit, filed in Federal court in Florida, could proceed, the Saudi Government persuaded the Administration to take the position that the case does not belong in a United States court and to seek a new hearing before the entire appeals court.
The Administration did not take a view on the merits of the lawsuit, filed by Scott J. Nelson of Raleigh, N.C., but rather it argued that foreign governments were immune from suits here concerning their internal law enforcement activity. That position was criticized by several members of Congress, who said foreign governments should not be able to escape responsibility for torturing American citizens.
The appeals courts declined to grant a new hearing. Saudi Arabia filed an appeal to the Supreme Court this fall, Saudi Arabia v. Nelson, No. 91-522, which the Administration did not join. The Court's request for its views puts the Administration in a potentially awkward position of choosing between alienating an important ally in Saudi Arabia and facing renewed criticism for its legal position.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH CAROLINA; ISLE OF PALMS (SOUTH CAROLINA) UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; EMINENT DOMAIN; FIFTH AMENDMENT (US CONSTITUTION); SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COASTAL AREAS ; LAND USE POLICIES; HOUSING; ZONING REAL ESTATE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); BEACHES (89%); NUISANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); INJUNCTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); MINES & MINING (67%); COAL MINING (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; LUCAS, DAVID H ; THOMAS, CLARENCE (JUDGE) CLARENCE THOMAS (73%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



672 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: BUSH SEES NO NEED FOR MAJOR EFFORTS TO REVIVE ECONOMY

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he believed that the American economy was basically sound and that he planned no major new programs to stimulate growth, but he acknowledged having trouble convincing the public that his policies were adequate.
Amid evidence that the continued economic sluggishness was already throwing his re-election campaign off balance, Mr. Bush called reporters to his office on short notice to strike a confident note about the country and his plans for a second term. 
 He said he felt no urgency to have a full campaign team in place, but he nonetheless said he might soon announce a top echelon of re-election officials .
 
Allaying Fears
 Just days after the stock market suffered its fifth-worst day in history, Mr. Bush took the opportunity to try to allay the fears of some supporters that the Democrats were using the poor economy to seize control of the 1992 election agenda. He said that neither he nor most top economists believed that the nation would slide back into a full-fledged recession next year.
"You see, there's some fairly good fundamentals getting out there," he said. "Inflation is down. Interest rates are down. Personal debt is down. Inventories are down. Quality -- competitiveness -- quality is going in the right direction, up, and exports are up. So it's not like we're dealing with a totally bad economy."
 
Seeking a Compelling Message
 "I'm not basing any plans on the economy getting worse," he said.
Today's session with reporters in the Oval Office, like Mr. Bush's news conference before he left for a meeting of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Rome the morning after Election Day, seemed intended to get the President off the defensive, but ended up reinforcing the impression that he was struggling to find a compelling campaign message.
Rather than holding a formal news conference today, the White House invited six correspondents recently assigned to the White House to meet with Mr. Bush.
Asked why polls indicated that many Americans believed that the country was headed in the wrong direction, he replied: "I think I've got to do better in making clear what the message is, and I think I can do better. But I think there's so much noise out there that I've got to figure out how to make it clearer that we are for the things that I have advocated that would help."
Mr. Bush said he felt that no "radically different approaches" were needed to promote further growth beyond his existing six-point legislative program, which includes a proposal to cut the tax rate for capital gains, legislation to overhaul the banking system and a highway bill that sponsors say would create thousands of jobs.
Some parts of that package, like the highway bill, appear headed for passage. Others, like the proposed cut in the capital gains tax, have been stalled in Congress for years and show few signs of moving toward passage.
In political speeches around the country in recent weeks, the President has responded to Democratic attacks by accusing Congress of thwarting his domestic legislation. That strategy has long worked for Mr. Bush and his predecessor, Ronald Reagan, but lately the unrelenting bad economic news has drowned him out.
Today's Oval Office interview came after a difficult week of reports of rising factory prices and falling automobile and retail sales. In a speech on Wednesday, Mr. Bush called on banks to reduce interest rates on credit cards voluntarily, apparently hoping to touch a chord with middle-class voters. The next day, some Republicans in Congress led a move to enact mandatory ceilings on credit card rates, panicking banks that rely on interest from credit cards to remain profitable.
That, in turn, may have helped spur a 120-point drop in the stock market on Friday and initiated another cycle of downbeat predictions about economic prospects.
Mr. Bush dismissed the steep drop in the stock market in a phrase on Saturday, telling reporters who interrupted his round of golf: "We'll see what happens Monday. No reason to get all concerned."
Today, noting that the stock market had headed back up, he said that attitude had been "the right approach" and that the President should not, and is not competent to, persuade stock traders to push stock prices upward or downward. The stock market gained 29.52 points today.
"I've tried as President to stay out of that," he said. "Perhaps what's happening in the market today vindicates that; I don't know. But let the market sort that out."
But the President defended his earlier efforts to persuade banks to lower their credit card rates, a move some experts have said is as likely to hurt the economy as help it, since lower rates will encourage financially pressed consumers to take on still more debt.
 
Not 'Interfering in the Market'
 Encouraging a decline in interest, he said, is not "interfering in the market" but something the White House regularly does in statements aimed at the Federal Reserve and other institutions that influence such rates.
Asked whether he believed it would be good for the economy if Americans made more purchases on credit, Mr. Bush appeared to respond with a qualified yes.
"That should be a decision made by individuals," he said. "But frankly, I'd like to see the cash registers ring at Christmastime. It would be very good for the economy."
The President was reluctant to say what else he might propose to help the economy or when he might propose it, except that he would wait until after Congress's scheduled adjournment on Friday to announce any new legislative programs.
That, he said, would remove Congress from the scene, enabling the Administration to "package what I'm talking about in a way that people will see it loud and clear and understand it and, hopefully, support me more."
On his own prospects for re-election, the President said that he felt "a certain confidence about it, about the outcome" of the 1992 race, but that he was taking seriously the emerging signs of challenges from both the Democrats and from within his own party's most conservative wing.
Friends of Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative television commentator and writer, have said he might enter the Republican primary against Mr. Bush, and David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan leader who lost decisively in Louisiana's race for governor on Saturday, said today that he was exploring the possibility of challenging the President.
Mr. Bush acknowledged that 1992 was shaping up as a potentially bad year for incumbents, based on the anti-government message that most analysts saw in this month's elections in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Virginia and elsewhere.
After nearly 11 years in the White House, he said, he has some concern that the voters this year may start to view him as an incumbent marked for defeat. "But I think I can handle it," he said. "I also note at the same time that people seem to suggest that Congress is more to blame than the President, though."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush said he was having trouble convincing the public that his policies were adequate. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; FORECASTS; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; INTEREST (MONEY); RATES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); INVENTORIES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); TAX LAW (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); PERSONAL DEBT (66%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); EXPORT TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



673 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: The Magic Word That Could Solve Cuomo's Budget Problems: 'Multiyear'

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 18

 BODY:
For all the bold talk about combining New York State's budget gaps into one huge problem and then crafting a grand solution to last well into 1993, nobody has yet described how it would actually work.
The lack of progress in fashioning such a plan could carry dire implications, not only for the fiscal outlook of the state, but also for the political future of Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who said today that if there was no solution soon, he would not enter the campaign for President. 
 Alluding to what he said was increasing pressure from national party leaders and the announced candidates to make up his mind about a Presidential run, Mr. Cuomo said in Buffalo: "That means you have to rush your decision. But if you have to rush your decision, and I don't have a budget solution, then I would have to say, 'No.' "
Given the equivocal nature of Mr. Cuomo's recent comments about the White House, even his aides cautioned against drawing a definitive conclusion from his latest remarks.
With an elastic definition of the word "solution," Mr. Cuomo could still argue that he was ready to run if he and legislative leaders could reach agreement in the next few days on a basic approach to dealing with the budget, like a freeze on local-assistance programs and most state spending for the next year and a half.
That is one concept that has come up repeatedly in discussions here about a multiyear budget, although aides to the Governor and the legislative leaders acknowledged that it might cover barely half of the roughly $3 billion potential gap the state faces over the next 18 months.
With his comments today, Mr. Cuomo may simply be sending a veiled message to national Democratic leaders that he wants them to back off in their pressure for an answer on the Presidency, although if this is his strategy, it is not necessarily working. Ronald H. Brown, the party's national chairman, called on Mr. Cuomo today to announce his plans within the next week and said that it was "getting close to that point" where his indecision would be harming the party's prospects.
Despite his emphasis on solving the state's long-term budget problems, neither Mr. Cuomo nor anyone else in the Capitol has offered even a broad outline of how to craft the unusual multiyear plan.
Both Mr. Cuomo and Assembly Speaker Mel Miller last week embraced the concept of a multiyear budget, which they said could blunt some of the spending cuts they might otherwise have to make immediately and also avoid an excruciating battle next spring over the 1992-93 budget.
Friends and foes of Mr. Cuomo have all noted that a successful "Super Mario Budget," as one strategist called it, could free the Governor to hit the road for crucial Presidential primaries that begin in February.
But how would this budget work? If the state does not cut $700 million between now and March 31, the end of the fiscal year, what will happen? Does that mean borrowing money, or sliding payments from March into April to meet the constitutional mandate to finish the year with a balanced budget? Would Wall Street raters, who have already given New York the third-worst credit rating of any state in the nation, blast such moves as fiscal gimmickry?
If the budget is stretched out, does that mean that yet another bad turn in the economy next year would leave the state budget in worse shape than if state leaders had bitten the bullet and cut all the $700 million now?
Republicans, who control the State Senate, have consistently expressed skepticism about the idea. They reiterated their insistence today that they would not go along with any plan that raised taxes, borrowed money or failed to contain deep cuts in Medicaid and welfare spending.
In one of the odder twists in the complicated relationship between the budget negotiations and the Governor's Presidential ruminations, Mr. Cuomo now seems to have almost left his decision about the White House in the hands of Republicans in Albany.
Certainly, prolonged intransigence on their part would, under Mr. Cuomo's latest pronouncement, keep him out of the race. On the other hand, the Governor might produce some major concessions that could benefit their own re-election campaigns next year, such as generous school-aid grants. Then the Republicans might go along with a budget now rather than face a fight later with a Governor who has no reason to buy their peace.
The Senate Majority Leader, Ralph J. Marino, has said he is even more interested in re-electing his members than in re-electing the President.
But without the multiyear budget, all sides concede, they will have to meet in Albany to thrash out the $700 million in spending cuts needed to balance the current budget.
"We love the idea of long-range financial planning," said Cynthia Green, a senior analyst for the Citizens Budget Commission, a private watchdog group financed by businesses. "We'd love to see a plan for a multiyear budget, balanced, without gimmicks. But until we see just how they want to get there, who knows?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (75%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



674 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Fisherman's Torpedoed Career Is Refloated

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SHINNECOCK INLET, L.I., Nov. 18

 BODY:
Capt. Daniel Hand, gazing longingly out to sea, declared that it was "a great day to go fishing" today. But he still didn't have a boat.
Captain Hand's last vessel, the Shinnecock I, in which he'd gone to sea for 18 years, was sunk eight months ago by the United States Navy after he netted a World War II torpedo along with a heavy load of fish in the Atlantic off the south shore of Long Island. 
 The torpedo had been fired by a Navy destroyer in 1942 at a German submarine, but missed its mark and sank to the ocean floor. When Captain Hand hauled it aboard the Shinnecock I this spring and notified the Navy, demolition experts declared it unstable and ordered that his boat be scuttled to prevent an explosion that could injure residents of nearby Hampton Bays.
Captain Hand, a fisherman for 38 of his 54 years, said that when they sank the 80-foot craft on March 13, Navy officials assured him that the Government would pay to replace the Shinnecock I. The vessel was insured, Captain Hand said, but the insurer would not pay because the Navy had sunk it.
 
Take It to Court
 But when he submitted a claim for Government compensation, he said, the Navy instead advised him to sue -- a process that could have gone on for years.
Friends of the captain contacted Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Representative George J. Hochbrueckner, both Long Island residents. During a brief ceremony at the Town of Southampton dock overlooking the Shinnecock Inlet today, they came to his aid with the promise of a Government check for $220,000 in compensation for his lost boat.
Captain Hand invited the Senator and Representative Hochbrueckner to go fishing when he gets his new boat, to be named Shinnecock II.
"I've been shopping for one from Maine to Texas," he said. "I've just got to decide what the bottom figure is and what I can manage. It's not the kind of thing you can pick up at Macy's."
 
Pirates of the Pentagon?
 A new boat and equipment will cost about $300,000, Captain Hand said, and he will probably take out a new mortgage on his home to revive his fishing business. In the meantime, he said, he is "penniless" and not covered by unemployment insurance.
"What we saw last March was literally high-seas piracy," Senator D'Amato said. "The poor captain catches a torpedo and reports it. The next thing you know he's ordered to abandon ship and they blow it up on him."
The Senator said he had compromised with the Navy on the $220,000 figure, which he said was included in the Defense Appropriations Bill that was recently approved by Congress and awaits the signature of President Bush.
The 54-year-old captain, who lives in Hampton Bays, recalled that "it was a day just like today -- calm seas, clear skies and no wind" when a Navy demolition team put charges in the Shinnecock I and "blew her bottom out," then went down and blew the torpedo apart.
"All they did was break the torpedo into pieces," he said. "As it turned out, it was a dud anyway."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, right, said yesterday that the Federal Government would pay for a boat owned by Capt. Daniel Hand, left, which was destroyed by the Navy after the vessel netted a World War II torpedo off Long Island. Captain Hand's insurance company would not pay. The Senator received a thank-you note from the captain's son, Bret, as Mr. Hand and his wife, Margaret, watched. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: T D I (59%); US NAVY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; BOATS AND BOATING; BOATS AND BOATING; TORPEDOES; NAVIES; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); BOATS AND BOATING WORLD WAR II (90%); NAVIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MILITARY VESSELS (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); OCEANS (69%); APPROVALS (67%); LEGISLATION (60%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); HAND, DANIEL (CAPT) GEORGE W BUSH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



675 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
SCHOOLS LOTTERY: JACKPOT IS HALF FULL
Ten weeks after being introduced, a special "Invest in Kids" lottery that was to pay for added security at New York City public schools is bringing in only half as much money as expected. And city officials say the proceeds will be used to plug a gap in the Board of Education's budget, rather than for anti-crime programs, as originally planned. Page A1.
 
NEW LIFE FOR A NEW SCHOOL
A group of parents and teachers have won their battle with the local school superintendent to preserve the Bronx New School, the alternative public school they created in a church basement three years ago. Page B3.
 
TESTING FOR TUBERCULOSIS
State officials began testing prison inmates and employees for tuberculosis in an attempt to stop the spread of a drug-resistant strain that has killed 14 people in the prison system. Page B3.
 
CITY SUSPENDS GOTTI RELATIVE'S CONTRACT
The Dinkins administration suspended a $1.8 million-a-year contract given to the son-in-law of John Gotti for the removal of abandoned cars from streets in Brooklyn. Page B3.
Transit executive accused of nepotism. Page B3.
Jury weighing gay-bashing case. Page B3.
Dinkins returns from South Africa trip. Page B3.
American Indians plan their own Thanksgiving parade. Page B3.
 
REGION
 
BUDGET PLAN: TALK, NO DETAILS
For all the bold talk about combining New York State's budget gaps into one huge problem and then crafting a grand solution to last into 1993, nobody has yet described how it would actually work. That helps explain why there has been little progress in negotiations so far. Page B9.
 
RACIAL QUESTIONING IN A WHITE SUBURB
White students who performed a high school skit grinning in blackface have set off an angry examination of racial attitudes in the affluent, overwhelmingly white suburb of Rye. Page B7.
 
D'AMATO ON THE OFFENSIVE
Facing the toughest re-election fight since he went to Washington, Senator D'Amato last week seized a politically powerful issue by calling for a cap on credit-card interest rates. That call has provoked open conflict with the Bush administration and is blamed for helping to cause Friday's stock market plunge. Page B7.
 
WEICKER ON THE OFFENSIVE
Governor Weicker seized the initiative at the opening of a special legislative session called to consider repealing the new income tax. He announced that Connecticut's $7.6 billion budget was already out of balance by $175 million and headed for another deficit. To close the gap, he proposed a series of cuts in local aid, pension deferrals and more tax increases. Page A1.
 
A FISHERMAN'S STORY
Daniel Hand is still a Long Island fisherman
without a boat. But at least he now has a Government promise of $220,000 to compensate for the loss of his old boat, which he was forced to sink after netting a World War II torpedo. Page B7.
Page B7.
 
Our Towns B6
Obituaries B14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW LIFE CLINICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); PRISONS (90%); LOTTERIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); HATE CRIME (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (76%); TUBERCULOSIS (74%); TUBERCULOSIS TESTING (74%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%); CITIES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (66%); THANKSGIVING (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); DRUG RESISTANCE (54%); GAYS & LESBIANS (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



676 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Creates Reserve for Imperiled Amazon Tribe

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Nov. 17

 BODY:
Overriding mining interests and military protests, President Fernando Collor de Mello has moved to reserve a stretch of Amazon rain forest as a homeland for the Yanomami Indians, a tribe virtually untouched by modern civilization whose ways date from the Stone Age.
The new reserve, coupled with a slightly smaller park across the border, in Venezuela, will allow the Yanomami, South America's last major untouched tribe, to roam freely over 68,331 square miles of Amazon wilderness, an area the size of Missouri. 
 "We struggled for 20 years for what has just happened," said Claudia Andujar, coordinator of the Commission for the Creation of a Yanomami Park, a private group based here."
With the fate of South America's 23,000 Yanomami an international cause, Napoleon A. Chagnon, an American anthropologist, echoed widespread American and European euphoria when he said today in a telephone interview, "This will go a long way to making cultural survival of the Yanomami a real possibility."
 
Military Resists Move
 But not everyone was clapping in Brasilia on Friday when Mr. Collor signed a decree reserving 1 percent of Brazil's land mass for the nation's estimated 9,000 Yanomami. At the signing ceremony, Gen. Carlos Tinoco, the Army Minister, pointedly abstained from joining the applause.
Charging that foreign interests secretly seek to create an independent Yanomami nation, influential elements of Brazil's military have argued that Brazil should clear a 12-mile-wide border strip to separate Brazil's Yanomami from Venezuela's Yanomami.
Searching for a mission after the collapse of international Communism, Brazil's conservative generals are increasingly taking nationalist stands on the Amazon.
"The innocence and purity of some idealists is exploited in order to keep dormant the potential of the Brazilian Amazon," warned a recent study by the Superior War College, Brazil's elite military institute.
Describing Indian and other reserves as "liberated zones" under international control, the military document predicted, "It would take a great Brazilian effort for their elimination, probably resorting to war."
But the army's political standing has been weakened in recent days by newspaper reports of fixed bidding practices for equipment procurements.
Rebuffing the army's national security arguments, Mr. Collor's announcement came on the national holiday marking the military's abolition of Brazil's monarchy in 1889.
Brazilian "sovereignty continues intact, and even reinforced," Mr. Collor said of the park. Two weeks ago, he approved 71 other Indian reserves, covering 42,471 square miles.
Mr. Collor ignored economic objections raised by governors of two states where the park will be located, Amazonas and Roraima.
Rich in gold, tin, diamonds and zinc, the park area is virtually papered with 698 requests by mining companies for exploration rights. Once an area becomes an Indian reserve, mining contracts are subject to approval by Indian communities and mediation by Brazil's Indian protection agency, Funai.

GRAPHIC: Map of Brazil highlighting Yanomami region

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); 

COMPANY: CULTURAL SURVIVAL (56%); CULTURAL SURVIVAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULTURAL SURVIVAL (56%); CULTURAL SURVIVAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BRAZIL; AMAZON RIVER BASIN; VENEZUELA BRAZIL (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (93%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); 

SUBJECT: YANOMAMI INDIANS; INDIANS, AMERICAN ARMIES (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); MINERAL LEASES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); APPROVALS (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); MINING SUPPORT ACTIVITIES (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (73%); RIVERS (59%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; COLLOR DE MELLO, FERNANDO (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



677 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoy Urges Debt Relief for Soviets

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Warning that economic pressures could bring social upheaval in the next six months, Robert S. Strauss, the United States Ambassador here, urged today that Western nations grant debt assistance to the disjointed Soviet nation as it tries to weather the winter and reorder its economy.
Mr. Strauss, emphasizing that he was expressing his personal view, urged the deferral of loan principal repayments as ministers of the Group of Seven industrial nations conferred here on the economic crisis with officials of the separate Soviet republics. 
 The Ambassador, in an interview with American correspondents, said that beyond debt assistance, it would be worthwhile for the United States to "risk a couple of billion bucks" in aid to the Soviet Union rather than see a "facist situation" evolve if tensions explode and people protest in the streets.
Mr. Strauss's comments appeared to be a departure from the cautious pronouncements of the Bush Administration on Soviet aid. In general, Administration officials have expressed wariness about committing further aid to the Soviet Union, citing budget constraints and the need for the Soviet republics to resolve their economic uncertainties.
 
A Winter of Unknowns
 But Mr. Strauss, the Democratic lawyer and Washington insider appointed by President Bush in June more for his political savvy than his diplomatic experience, spoke plainly of Soviet conditions. The Ambassador, who is known to be dismayed by the collapse of a Congressional plan to divert $1 billion in Pentagon money to Soviet relief, stressed the need to extend at least limited timely support as the Soviet nation faces a winter of unknowns.
Mr. Strauss said that the limited debt relief that he was urging, under which interest would continue to be paid, could make a "major difference" of $10 billion or more in the current economic pressures now facing officials of this crisis-ridden nation.
"It sure can blow up in our face in the next six months very easily," Mr. Strauss declared in estimating the tensions while stressing that, with some prudent risk-taking, creditor nations could see a "modestly stable government and society" emerge from the current chaos within a few years.
The Soviet foreign debt is estimated at $80 billion and Western European nations like France and Germany, which have been more willing than Washington to extend loans to the Soviets, are the main creditors.
Economic specialists have estimated the Soviet needs in the scores of billions of dollars of aid at a minimum. Mr. Strauss said that while he could not urge any investor to "bet the farm" in the current chaos, Western nations dare not take the risk of standing idly by.
The Group of Seven deputy finance ministers conferred separately with republic officials on the crisis and its most immediate symptom: how a crumbling Soviet Union increasingly short in hard currency reserves can meet such a large debt.
Ivan Silayev, chairman of the Inter-republic Economic Committee that is trying to chart a reconstruction program for the post-Communist era, said that the meeting, which will continue on Tuesday, would consider a "package of proposals" from the Group of Seven nations on granting some sort of financial aid to the Soviet republics by the end of the year. The Group of Seven consists of the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan.
Any debt relief or aid would probably entail a series of conditions about the remaining republics' willingness to assume the Soviet debt and to install a market economic system. Global wariness of the Soviet economy has been growing daily as the ruble loses value, consumer shortages deepen and conflicting reports emerge about the state of the tottering nation's currency reserves.
The debt issue is complicated by the republics' need to mute emerging rivalries and restore enough credibility in world financial markets to assure provision of vitally needed food and other basic consumer goods.
Mr. Strauss, who is not a direct participant in the Group of Seven talks, said that in the three months since he took up his post "a lot of latent anomosity" had become clear in Soviet society, leaving "a very unpredictable" future.
"I'm more bullish than bearish," the ambassador concluded. "I think they're going to get through it."
With the national union Government steadily dissolving ever since the failed Kremlin coup of last August, President Boris N. Yeltsin is trying to have his Russian republic take the lead in bolstering world credibility and introducing free-market economics.
 
Russia Seeks Dominance
 Over the weekend, he issued a series of sweeping orders to assert Russian dominance over the foundering Soviet economy, proclaiming control over Russia's dwindling reserves of oil, gold and other precious commodities and opening the republic's doors to foreign trade.
The package of new measures would lift most controls over imports, exports and foreign currency transactions on Russian territory. It would also allow the value of ruble, now dictated by the Soviet central bank, to float according to market rates on Jan. 1, a measure certain to compound social pressures.
An earlier, parallel order would free consumer prices, which already are rocketing upward, and bolster wages with anti-inflation increases. It remains far from clear, however, how much political and social resistance Mr. Yeltsin will face in tring to carry out such an economic revolution.
Among other issues, the Group of Seven meeting was expected to focus on obtaining firmer guarantees from the republics to fulfill an earlier agreement to channel hard-currency earnings to repayment of the standing Soviet debt. There have been signs of balking in some republics and Soviet television news reported tonight that Azerbaijan and Moldavia in particular were resisting the pledge to repay.
Part of President Yeltsin's economic program has emphasized that Russia, by far the nation's largest and wealthiest republic, would protect itself from assuming other republics' share of debts.
Mr. Strauss spoke positively of the relationship between the Soviet President, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, whose role has waned, and Mr. Yeltsin, whose burdens and powers are growing. "He knows there needs to be a center," the Ambassador said of Mr. Yeltsin.
Mr. Strauss counseled patience in speaking sympathetically of the separate republics' urge to flex their new-found sovereignties. He likened them to teen-agers asserting their independence of parents but then eventually qualifying their revolt when "their laundry got dirty or they need a good meal."
With announcements, warnings and confusion over the economy coming in flurries each day, the Soviet public was promised a tangible bit of free marketry this week. The Moscow Government said the first shops would be denationalized, with workers having first chance at buying and running them. If worker collectives demur, the shops are to be put to open auction, with foreign investors permitted to bid, according to the announced plan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoppers trying to purchase meat at a state-owned store in Moscow, where it is rarely available. (Associated Press); Robert S. Strauss, the United States Ambassador to the Soviet Union, said that Western nations should grant debt relief to the Soviet nation. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); RIOTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TRENDS (69%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); CURRENCIES (60%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT S (AMB); CLINES, FRANCIS X GEORGE W BUSH (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



678 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Rush of Callers Seek Extended Aid for Jobless

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The ink was barely dry after President Bush signed the law extending benefits for the long-term unemployed when idled workers started calling unemployment insurance offices in the New York metropolitan region to ask for their checks.
State labor officials in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut are advising unemployed men and women who have exhausted their normal insurance since March 1 to wait for applications for extended benefits to come in the mail. Mr. Bush signed the $5.3 billion package after Congress passed an amended version late Friday, and first thing this morning calls began flooding regional labor department offices as labor union locals mobilized their laid-off members to find out if they were eligible. 
 About 40,000 Connecticut residents, 120,000 New Jerseyans and 250,000 New Yorkers are estimated to be among the 3 million Americans who have exhausted their normal 13-to-26-week unemployment benefits since March 1, the date Congress set as the limit for inclusion in the program. People who ran out of coverage before that date are not eligible, state labor officials said. Those who run out of benefits between now and June 13, 1992, will also be eligible under the measure.
"We had a real rush this morning, but things have quieted down now," said John Bachofen, manager of the New Jersey Department of Labor's Trenton office, one of 34 in the state. "The preferred method is for them to wait for their application to come in the mail, but we took them with the other people and handed them their application cards today, since they took the trouble to come down."
Thomas L. Hinds, Acting New York State Labor Commissioner, issued a statement warning that flocking to state labor offices might slow the handling of applications. Jane Burman, manager of the Department of Labor's Community Service Center at 52 West 20th Street in Manhattan, said she expected the mailings to be completed by Nov. 27. People who think they are eligible but who have not received an information packet by Dec. 2 should get in touch with a local service center, she said.
Word of the extended benefits lured more than double the usual number of people to the Community Service Center at East 149th Street in the Bronx this morning.
Richard Quatroni, the office's supervising labor services representative, arrived at his office at 7 A.M. to find a line of people that stretched around the block, 60 of whom were inquiring about their eligibility for extended payments. His office had expected the extension to attract as many as 5,000 more customers a month, and already by midafternoon today the office had seen more than 500 people -- or half its regular weekly volume.
 
Offices to Extend Hours
 In Connecticut, where officials believe idled workers have been exhausting their jobless benefits at the rate of more than 1,200 a week, officials will keep unemployment claim centers open late, until 8:30 P.M. on some days, starting next month.
Among the first questions the long-term unemployed seemed to want answered was "Will I get my money before Thanksgiving, or before Christmas?," according to conversations with people coming out of the Trenton office who said their union locals had informed them that the benefits program had finally been approved. The package had been a political football tossed between the White House and Congress this fall, with Mr. Bush twice vetoing the program because of its cost before signing the amended version Friday.
The answer to the applicants' question is Christmas. Although New Jersey officials worked through the weekend to get the first 20,000 of 120,000 applications in the mail this morning, the last documents will probably not reach their beneficiaries until the end of the month, particularly in New York.
"Man, I feel like this came from God," said Gerry Gurney, a Trenton construction laborer who said he lost his last job in April. His benefits ran out in October, he said, and he believes he will qualify for the extra stipends. "Coming in time for Christmas is going to make all the difference."
The extended benefits are especially welcome in the Bronx, which has the highest reported unemployment rate in the state, 11.3 percent, according to Kathleen O'Brien, the manager of the Department of Labor's 149th Street office.
 
Relief at Decision
 John Garcia, an unemployed engraver who spent a year unsuccessfully looking for work before a brief stint working during the summer, thought the benefits were especially useful to family men like himself. He supports his wife, two daughters and his disabled mother.
"Some people need more than six months," he said.
Those who are eligible will receive either 20 additional weeks of benefits or 100 percent of the benefit level for which they last qualified, whichever is lower. Someone who was eligible for only 13 weeks' insurance, normally the minimum benefit, would therefore receive only that number under the new program.
Payment levels are based on salary or work history and usually range between $200 and $250 a week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INSURANCE (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); PETERSON, IVER GEORGE W BUSH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



679 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Republican Conservatives Picked for Top Budget Posts

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TRENTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
The leaders of the new Republican legislative majorities chose two fiscal conservatives today to head the finance committees in the Senate and the Assembly and to lead the fight to fulfill a Republican campaign promise to roll back taxes.
The President-elect of the Senate, Donald T. DiFrancesco, picked Senator Robert E. Littell as chairman of the Revenue and Appropriations Committee. In the Assembly, Speaker-elect Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian made Assemblyman Rodney P. Frelinghuysen chairman of the Appropriations Committee. 
 Democrats, who, for the first time in 20 years will be the minority in both chambers, today elected the Assembly Speaker, Joseph V. Doria Jr., to serve as minority leader in the new session.
The legislative budget officers hold some of the most powerful appointed posts in state government, and the jobs will take on added importance for the Republicans because they based their campaigns on anti-tax oratory and promises of tax cuts.
Mr. Littell, who sold his own appliance center in Franklin a year ago, said today that Republicans intended to keep that promise by cutting the size of government.
Mr. Haytaian cut his own leadership roster today when he announced that he would operate with 19 committees instead of the 27 used by the Democratic majority.
 
Focus on Sales Tax So Far
 His budget officer, Mr. Frelinghuysen, has served in the Assembly since 1983 and was chairman of the Appropriations Committee in 1989, the last time Republicans controlled the Assembly.
Focusing their campaigns on $2.8 billion in tax increases that the Democratic Governor, Jim Florio, pushed through a Democratic-controlled Legislature last year and the public anger it stirred, Republicans captured a 58-to-22 Assembly majority and a 27-to-13 lead in the Senate in the Nov. 5 election.
They touted the victory as a mandate to repeal taxes, but have said definitely only that they will roll back a penny on the current 7 cent sales tax, which was part of Mr. Florio's tax package.
In choosing Mr. Littell as the Senate's top budget officer, Mr. DiFrancesco passed over Senator John H. Ewing, the senior Republican member of the Appropriations Committee. Mr. DiFrancesco said Mr. Ewing would become president pro-tem of the Senate and chairman of the Education Committee.
Senate Democrats are to meet within a week to decide on their new leadership, with John A. Lynch, the Senate president, expected to keep his leadership job in the minority.
Mr. Doria's current majority leadership team will follow him as minority leaders. Democrats today voted unanimously for Assemblymen Wayne R. Bryant and Jimmy Zangari as deputy minority leaders, William J. Pascrell Jr. as conference chairman, Byron Baer as minority leader pro-tem and Joseph Charles Jr. as associate minority leader.
Mr. Haytaian and the Republicans, in paring their committee list to 19, eliminated committees like drug and alcohol abuse policy, economic growth, agriculture and tourism. But Republican officials said the responsibilities of those committees will be handled by others.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LEGISLATURES; TAXATION; ELECTIONS TAXES & TAXATION (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CONSERVATISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); SALES TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); GOVERNORS (72%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (50%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; LITTELL, ROBERT E (SEN); FRELINGHUYSEN, RODNEY P (ASSEMBLYMAN) RODNEY P FRELINGHUYSEN (78%); BILL PASCRELL JR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



680 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: On Credit Cards, D'Amato Finds Victory and Defeat

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18

 BODY:
Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato knows a good political target when he sees one. Saddam Hussein, for one. Credit card interest rates, for another.
But while his attacks on the Iraqi leader generated little debate, the latest attempt by Mr. D'Amato to use the rates as grist for his toughest re-election campaign set off an open battle between New York's junior Senator and the White House and is being blamed for provoking Friday's stock market plunge. 
 The confrontation with the Administration culminated a weeklong political roller coaster ride for the Long Island Republican.
The ride up began when President Bush last Tuesday called at a New York fundraiser for banks to lower their credit card rates as a way to help consumer spending.
It was exactly what the Senator had been waiting for. He came back here, recruited Senator Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat, and dusted off an amendment that would cap credit card interest rates at about 14 percent, roughly 4 percentage points less than most banks currently charge.
 
Question of Access
 It was quickly approved by the Senate. But just as quickly came a barrage of attacks on the Senator from both Republicans and Democrats who said the measure would limit access to credit, thereby possibly deepening the recession.
The amendment on the credit-card rates is only the latest effort by Senator D'Amato to increase his visibility and reverse a five-year-long slide in the polls by becoming seen as the champion of the middle class, who are being courted by both parties as the key to the coming elections.
But, one after another, his attempts to project himself as "Battlin' Al" have brought grief as well as credit.
"It's typical Al D'Amato: rife political opportunism and a quick fix," said Attorney General Robert Abrams of New York, one of several Democratic opponents. "It looks good on the surface but is going to have a devastating consequence on the working guy."
Last month, the Senator's criticism of Mayor David N. Dinkins's handling of racial disturbances in Crown Heights brought a similar rebound, as Democrats and community leaders here and in New York charged that he was exploiting racial fears.
White ethnic and Jewish voters are key elements of Mr. D'Amato's political constituency. When he won a second term five years ago, the Senator lost New York City to the Democratic challenger, Mark Green, but compensated by running unusually well for a Republican among Jewish voters.
Mr. D'Amato has turned the courtship of ethnic groups into something approaching performance art. Last year, during the Baltic states' battle for independence from the Soviet Union, he was the first Senator to defy Soviet regulations by trying to cross the border into Lithuania. And when Iraq began firing Scud missiles at Israel during the Persian Gulf war last summer, the Senator flew to Israel to demonstrate his solidarity.
The Senator is a silver-tongued campaigner with a press agents' eye for what makes the evening news -- today, for instance, announcing a settlement to compensate a fisherman whose trawler was blown up by the Coast Guard after he snagged a World War II torpedo in his nets. On a less-publicized level, he has also been a steady supporter of Wall Street firms -- who have been among his biggest contributors -- in their battles with big banks.
 
Who's Ignoring Whom?
 The Senator defends himself against charges of pandering by accusing the Northeast political establishment of overlooking local needs. And in what is fast becoming the mantra of politicians facing election, Mr. D'Amato also charges that his critics have ignored the middle class.
He notes that the discount rate, which is what banks are charged for borrowing money, has dropped to 4.5 percent from 7 percent last year, but that most banks have maintained the interest they charge to credit card customers at almost 19 percent.
"They're gouging the middle class," the Senator said today in a telephone interview after returning from New York. "They're soaking the middle class. Jesse James at least wore a mask. These guys do it as your friend and they want you to say thank you."
But in a stinging rebuke to the Senator, the Administration and many Republicans denounced his amendment, which is modeled after legislation he introduced six years ago. They said the bill would hurt the people he is trying to help.
"The only people who would have credit cards would be the rich people," Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said Sunday on "Meet the Press" on NBC-TV in blaming the Senator for Friday's stock market plunge. The bill, he added, would lead to "credit cards which are elitist."
The Senator today appeared to back down from the proposal. He acknowledged it was "terrible legislation" but said it was needed because of a "conspiracy" among banks to inflate credit card interest rates. Claiming victory even though colleagues were lining up against the bill, he predicted that the public outcry raised by the bill would force banks to cut their credit card rates.
"At the very least we've exposed the conspiracy," he said. "I think we're going to see interest rates come down. If they needed the fear of God, so be it. We've accomplished something already."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); LITHUANIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (70%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS CREDIT CARDS (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); FUNDRAISING (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); APPROVALS (66%); ETHNICITY (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); GRUSON, LINDSEY SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



681 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

HEADLINE: Divided Pakistan Torn by Lawlessness and Scandal

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Nov. 15

 BODY:
Each time a passenger plane begins its glide toward this capital's airport, a flight attendant says, "We shall be landing soon, God willing." The invocation, while perhaps unnerving to travelers more inclined to put their faith in the pilot's training, is heard increasingly here, just one sign of the divisions that afflict this country.
Little more than three years since a return to democratic government, Pakistan is caught in a spiral of increasing lawlessness in many parts of the country. It is at war in all but name with neighboring India. A conflict between a resurgent Islamic clergy and an urban, Western-educated elite undermines efforts to forge a consensus on how Pakistan will approach the 21st century. 
 The Government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif is bedeviled by gossip, barraged by accusations of venality, castigated by the opposition and threatened by a final rupture of cordiality with the United States.
In 12 months in office, the cherub-cheeked Mr. Sharif has defied his detractors with the speed at which he has restructured the country's economy and with his tenacity at fending off political challenges.
 
State Industries Sold
 On the auction block is virtually every state industry and most of its banks. Gone are restrictions on foreign investment, on holding foreign exchange, on imports and exports. Gone, too, are many of the onerous bureaucratic regulations that have stifled private industry. The stock market has soared, and Japanese and European investors are sniffing around.
But critics, including his archrival and former Prime Minister, Benazir Bhutto, say officials in Mr. Sharif's Government have been equally eager to use their influence to fill the pockets of relatives and friends. Equally alarming, at least to urban, Western-educated intellectuals, is the Prime Minister's steady accession to the aggressive demands of Pakistan's religious right for a more rigid Islamic society. Indeed, the first public hangings and floggings under sharia, Islamic law, have been announced in recent weeks.
"Nawaz had everything you could conceivably think of going for him," said Najam Sethi, editor of The Friday Times, an independent weekly in Lahore that has been investigating assertions of corruption in the Government. "There were great expectations, great promises. Now all of this is stalled. The Government is efficient, unlike Benazir's Government. But it is corrupt, absolutely, astronomically corrupt, including the Prime Minister. The Government is reeling from it. Its back is to the wall. The opposition is having a field day."
The Prime Minister's senior press adviser, Husain Haqqani, derided the Government's critics.
"There is a concerted effort by some politicians in opposition, and some of their friends who are not friends of Pakistan, to weaken this Government and weaken the structure of government," he said. "They find that democracy is flourishing, that free enterprise is flourishing, and it is not happening under Miss Bhutto."
Few of this country's realities intrude on the sterile placidity of this planned capital's straight boulevards, crisp new Government buildings and palatial diplomatic houses. That nearly one in 10 infants die at birth here, that fewer than one in four people can read, that Pakistan remains one of the poorest countries in the world, stands in contrast to the well-stocked shops here and the important men with their portable cellular phones.
But beyond this city, problems are rising for Mr. Sharif. In Sind, the southernmost state, crime and violence have flared out of control as ethnic strife rumbles through the countryside. In Punjab, his native state, 700,000 people, mostly poor, lost all their savings when the state's cooperative societies, entities somewhat akin to American savings and loans, went bankrupt. Even as those co-ops failed, it emerged that the same societies had granted billions of rupees in loans to Mr. Sharif's family concern, the Ittefaq Group, a conglomerate of steel, sugar and textile industries.
Although Ittefaq hurriedly repaid the loans when the collapse of the co-ops was apparent, the damage to the Prime Minister's reputation was severe. Opposition politicians, including Miss Bhutto, have demanded Mr. Sharif's resignation, and even the country's docile newspapers questioned the Prime Minister's judgment.
Mr. Haqqani, the Prime Minister's spokesman, argued that public anger was misplaced because Pakistan does not have the same conflict-of-interest laws as Western countries.
"There are no laws barring officeholders from retaining business interests," Mr. Haqqani said. "Until we have codes and laws, it is unfair to make that into an issue."
In the end, though, what appears to matter to domestic policy is not the extent of allegations against Mr. Sharif but his two-thirds majority in Parliament.
But more often than not in recent weeks, it is not the financial peccadillos of Government that absorb the attention of urban Pakistanis, but the more salacious intimations about the Government that this country's press hestitates to report.
Across the border in India, one of that country's most respected and acerbic columnists, Tavleen Singh, has written that Mr. Sharif has been having an affair with an Indian film star. Apart from the scandal that would be attached to any Pakistani Prime Minister wooing an Indian woman, what has been bandied about this capital is the belief that Mr. Sharif, to defeat the telephone tapping of his calls to the young woman, serenades her instead with ballads from Indian musical films. The Prime Minister, for his part, has scoffed at the assertion.
More substantial, but even more titillating, has been the arrest of a woman the papers here call Madame Tahira for managing a bordello. In this country, where Islamic values are increasingly being imposed on the population, running a prostitution ring is among the greater sins. But what Madame Tahira told the police was that some of the most ardent proponents of Islamization in the Pakistani Senate were among her clients.
A leading cleric and Senator, Samiul Haq, rose on the floor of the Senate to criticize suggestions that he had been a customer of Madame Tahira's establishment.
"Fifty thousand women cannot stop me from carrying on with my mission," he said. "What will my wives and children think? I am a leader of a religious party, and other parties consider me a soldier of Islam."
But The Nation newspaper snidely observed of Mr. Haq's oration, "Interestingly, the Senator at no stage in his speech made any attempt to deny anything of what has been alleged against him by Madame Tahira."
The religious right maintains that the whole affair is a plot to discredit the influence of the clerics in national life. By whom, they do not say. But here in Islamabad, the details of Madame Tahira's taped confession to the police leaking into the alternative press provide some relief from the more routine political skirmishings and financial scandals facing the country.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nawaz Sharif (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE INDUSTRIES INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;PAKISTAN; INDIA PAKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ISLAM; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); TRENDS (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (70%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A; SHARIF, NAWAZ (PRIME MIN) NAWAZ SHARIF (90%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



682 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Returns From Africa, Buoyed by Trip

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins returned to New York City yesterday after six days of seeing poverty and racism in South Africa, saying, "It sure in blazes helps one put things in perspective." He added that some of the daily political troubles he faces at City Hall "are less important than they were before."
Asked what he meant, he told reporters traveling with him just before his plane landed at Kennedy International Airport, "Let me just say that, as the expression goes, some of those people that have been telling lies about me, I may decide to tell the truth about them." 
 Minutes later, summing up the highs of a trip that repaid Nelson Mandela's visit to New York, Mr. Dinkins struggled to hold back tears at a news conference as he recalled his reception in black townships and the courage of those he met.
The Mayor was clearly buoyed by his first visit to Africa, especially by a traditional homecoming ceremony at the home of Oliver Tambo, the African National Congress chairman, in which blessings were offered to him and his wife, Joyce. "I am now protected," he told reporters. Asked against what, he replied, "Against anti-forces."
But Deputy Mayor Bill Lynch, who traveled with him and organized the trip, eyed the reporters and added, "Against you all."
 
Met With Foreign Minister
 Besides meeting with several black groups and negotiating training programs in which black and white businesses would send managers to New York for training, Mr. Dinkins met for 45 minutes on his way out of the country with Foreign Minister Roelof F. Botha, after efforts to schedule an appointment with the Government had not panned out.
"We had quite an exchange," said the Mayor, who argued for continued economic sanctions against South Africa until an interim government is formed to begin drafting a new constitution, while Mr. Botha argued that the sanctions were hurting the economy and the lot of blacks. Mr. Dinkins said neither changed his position, but added, "I think he and I have come to understand each other better."
The Mayor acknowledged that it would be scant comfort to New Yorkers suffering poverty and problems of their own that conditions in South Africa were worse, and said he was not arguing that. The Mayor said he would have been ashamed if he had called off the trip in the face of criticism. Asked if his critics should now be ashamed, he said, "Yes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); AFRICAN NATIONAL CONGRESS (ANC) (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH AFRICA; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TRAVEL, PERSONAL TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); CITIES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); AIRPORTS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (62%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); PURDUM, TODD S NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (56%); OLIVER TAMBO (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



683 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 4; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: A Place in the Sun for le Cinema

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARASOTA, Fla., Nov. 17

 BODY:
The third annual Sarasota French Film Festival, a five-day mini-extravaganza that began on Thursday, is at once a public forum for new French films, a marketplace and a subsidized opportunity for members of the French film industry to schmooze, which they do with all the elaborate rituals and cozy familiarity displayed by the pelicans and seagulls that cluster on Sarasota's gorgeous white-sand beaches.
It is also, of course, an opportunity for Sarasota to obtain ample coverage in the French press and for Sarasotans to hobnob with a glamorous slice of the French cinematic haut monde. But this is really a French production. The festival was originally intended to be supported half by the French Government and French corporations and half by state and private money from Florida. The French have now assumed about 60 percent of the $800,000 in costs, counting such contributions as air tickets to bring some 150 French and American industry leaders, stars and journalists to Sarasota. 
 Such corporate support is not inconsiderable. "These are not people used to flying tourist class," observed Daniel Toscan du Plantier, a French film producer, record-company chief (Erato), president of Unifrance (the trade organization to promote French films abroad) and the guiding light behind the Sarasota festival.
 
Art vs., Commerce
 If film is an uneasy balance between art and commerce, the Sarasota festival reflects that tension with uncanny accuracy. On the one hand, it is a self-respecting forum for cinematic excellence, its 20 films this year having been selected by an artistic director, the critic Molly Haskell, from 70 candidates.
Her selections this year suggest that traditional French film values are still very much in evidence. The films concentrated on sex and romance, with women supposedly exerting their own kind of power through feminine wiles; on relations between lovers of widely divergent ages; on tensions between children and adults, and above all on poverty with a comedic or romantic twist: if New Yorkers fret about their own homeless, they should see the graphic depictions of Parisian poverity in Gerard Jugnot's "Epoque Formidable" and Leos Carax's "Amants du Pont-Neuf." This is hardly a trend limited to France, to judge from "The Fisher King," but the French expand on it with typical Gallic flair.
The festival is also a blatant commercial showcase. Should Ms. Haskell decline to present a film with a powerful company's patronage behind it, it could simply be offered under the rubric "Unifrance Presents." While defending the basic integrity of her choices, Ms. Haskell conceded that compromise was built into the process.
The French want a showcase, a Cannes-like environment with a human scale and what they rather patronizingly call "a real audience," by which they mean an untutored one, to prove the supposed universality of their movies. They also want an American equivalent to the French Deauville Festival, which presents new American films, because they complain bitterly about the imbalance between American films shown in France, amounting to some 55 percent of the market there, and French films seen here, which total 0.6 percent of the American box office.
"The equilibrium is ridiculous," grumbled Pierre Lescure, president of Canal Plus, the French pay-television monopoly whose huge profits ("It's hundreds of millions of dollars annually, but nobody knows for sure," said Mr. Toscan du Plantier) have made it a powerful new force in both French and international film financing.
While the French agree they would like a larger share of the American market, the consensus breaks down there. Underneath the polite talk of face-to-face exchanges of ideas and gentle persuasion lie dire threats, including the possible imposition of quotas on American films in France. "We have less than 1 percent of the American market," Mr. Toscan du Plantier said, "but that's not the demand; it's what's being offered the American public."
Most of the talk, however, concerns less conspiratorial matters. The French are convinced that language is the principal barrier to wider acceptance of their films, but are unsure how to overcome that barrier. The traditional American audience for foreign films prefers subtitles, used at this festival. To reach a true mass audience, the French believe films must be dubbed, as in Europe. But the American distributors are convinced that mass American audiences will reject dubbing, pointing to video sales of films in both versions in which subtitles outsell their dubbed competition 8 to 1. "We cannot afford to alienate our prime market," argued Meyer Gottlieb, president of the Samuel Goldwyn Company.
Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax, a major New York-based distributor, felt that dubbing could reach a mass market here after one breakthrough film. But Mr. Toscan du Plantier spoke more guardedly of increasing the American audience to 2 or 3 percent, appealing to an elite that "thinks foreign things are sophisticated."
In fact, about one-third of the Sarasota films do find United States distribution, which Mr. Toscan du Plantier said is a decent average. And Michael Barker of Orion Classics, which has sold $61 million worth of tickets to the 30 French films it has disbributed since 1983, said the American market for French films had actually increased by 20 percent over the last 8 years.
 
Slow Pace a Factor
 But an exposure to 10 French films over the first 3 days of this festival suggested other, subtler reasons for the failure of so many films here, beyond language. French films move at a slower, more discursive pace than American films. They dwell on dialogue and personal relations instead of slam-bang action. Too many French sound tracks use accordions.
Some of that may reflect an invidious comparison between present-day French films and both their own, glorious past and American films today, which have come of age. The top prize at the last three Cannes festivals has been taken by an American entry, and Gerard Depardieu, the reigning star of French film and this year's Sarasota festival, argued bluntly that "French films are not as serious as Hollywood films; in France, everyone makes movies, but they don't take enough care with them."
French insularity may be changing now, for better or worse. There are those who contend that the recent vast amounts of television and private money available for film production will upset the traditional economic balance of the French film industry, threatening the typical small French film.
"France has too much money for films now," said Dominique Wallon, head of the French Government's principal agency for film production, the Centre National de la Cinematographie. "We have to export it." Nicolas Seydoux, who runs Gaumont, the oldest film company in the world (since 1895), took a sanguine view. "You always have new people with new money, and there is always inflation involved," he said.
Unlike Cannes or Berlin, Sarasota offers no prizes, but that did not preclude a consensus on this year's best films. Maurice Pialat's "Van Gogh," an admirably dispassionate, historically accurate look at the painter's last months, which many in Sarasota admired particularly, ultimately paled before Mr. Carax's blend of horrific realism and operatic romanticism. "Les Amants du Pont-Neuf" is the story of two homeless young people, a painter slipping into blindness (Juliette Binoche) and an alcoholic schizophrenic fire eater (Daniel Lavant), two true sans-culottes at the French bicentennial. The film triumphantly overcomes the seeming inappropriateness of its subject with Mr. Carax's thrilling grasp of the medium and the performances of his actors.
The director, who is only 30 years old, would have no part of any notion of a mutually beneficial French film community, an idea he dismissed as "superficial." "In 10 years, I have talked to only one or two other movie makers," he said. "Every director in France today is like a resistance fighter in his own corner, regarding everyone else as an invader."
As if to reinforce his attitude, he could be found a few minutes later hunkered down on a beach chair with a book, fully dressed, as the rest of the French frolicked in the distance. If by his isolation Mr. Carax symbolized the gulf between cinematic art and commerce, he was also, by his very presence in Sarasota, reaffirming their links.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SARASOTA, FL, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (93%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FESTIVALS; SARASOTA FILM FESTIVAL FESTIVALS (92%); FILM (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TRENDS (72%); BEACHES (71%); TRAVEL TICKETS (68%); 

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



684 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Musicians Take Their Case to the Audience

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
With their contract negotiations moving along at a tempo somewhat slower than adagio, the musicians of the New York Philharmonic have taken up an unusual form of behind-the-scenes lobbying. On Sunday evening, about 10 of the musicians turned up at the author E. L. Doctorow's home in New Rochelle to play chamber music for about 30 of Mr. Doctorow's friends, neighbors and colleagues and to give them an idea of some of the issues that might lead to the orchestra's first strike since 1973.
The chamber music evening at Mr. Doctorow's house was the eighth private performance the players have given since Nov. 1, mostly in Manhattan, at the homes of authors, college professors and others who promise to bring them sympathetic and, ideally, influential listeners. Among those who attended Mr. Doctorow's party were the authors William Styron and Avery Corman. 
 The Philharmonic's music director, Kurt Masur, was also there. But although several of the players described his presence as a show of solidarity, Mr. Masur, who must maintain good relations with both the management and his musicians, was more guarded.
 
Positive Spirit Perceived
 "I'm here for an evening of chamber music," Mr. Masur said. "I have no role in the negotiations. I think that the spirit of both sides is so positive that I'm full of hope that they will find a good solution. But first they have to find out what is possible, and that they can believe each other."
Sitting in the last of four rows of chairs in Mr. Doctorow's living room, Mr. Masur listened intently to his musicians' accounts of Mozart's Flute Quartet in A (K. 298) and the Schubert "Trout" Quintet, and he shook hands with them afterward. But he declined to have his picture taken with a group of the players. "This would not be good for you," he quietly explained to them. "If there's a picture, then there's a story. You don't want a story. You want results."
That result is what the musicians are calling "a breakaway contract," one that will make the Philharmonic the highest-paid orchestra in the United States. In a leaflet attached to the concert programs, they listed their reasons as including the high cost of living in New York and "the psychological pressures we undergo by performing in the world's cultural capital -- before the most sophisticated and knowledgeable audiences in the world."
 
Principle of Being First
 The players refused, however, to discuss their specific demands or the Philharmonic's offers except to say that the two sides are not close. "The principle that the Philharmonic be treated as the first among this country's orchestras is more important than the dollars," said Evangeline Benedetti, a cellist who is also on the negotiating committee.
But some of the musicians referred to "the strike" as if it were already on. And the players seemed emphatic in their agreement that the contract the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and its players signed in September would not be adequate for them. The Chicago contract gives the musicians minimum salaries of $61,800 this year, and $67,600 in 1993.
Under the contract that expired on Sept. 20, and that the players have extended until Dec. 6, the minimum Philharmonic salary is $58,240 for eight services a week. A service is a performance or rehearsal, which typically lasts two and a half hours.
"We feel as if we are always riding on Chicago's coat tails, and settling for what they got," said Glenn Dicterow, the Philharmonic's concertmaster. "It's time we were the trailblazers."
 
Economic Pressure Cited
 Deborah Borda, the orchestra's managing director -- and the player's direct opponent in the negotiations -- said yesterday that she had not attended any of the orchestra's chamber music evenings, but that she knew about them and liked the idea.
"They are reaching out to the community," Ms. Borda said, "and that can only be a good thing." Like the players, though, she would not comment specifically on the negotiations or on management's position.
"I understand their desire to be thought of as the greatest orchestra in America, or the world. But that is determined by one fact, which is how they play. What we can pay them is a separate judgment. Obviously, the economic position of the city, and the entire country, have some bearing on what we are trying to do. You can't negotiate in a vacuum. The economy has put pressure on every arts institution."
It was a conversation between Mr. Dicterow and Mr. Doctorow that led to the gathering on Sunday. "Glenn is my neighbor," the author said, "and he explained to me the problems they were having and said that the players wanted to get the word out. So I said, let's do something. I find it wonderful that their idea of union agitation is to play the 'Trout' Quintet."
The musicians could not say what effect its chamber music parties might have. But they said that they intended to continue them, and that they would like to present some free public performances if they could find the right place to do it.
Renee Siebert, a flutist and the chairwoman of the players' negotiating committee, said:
"These are difficult times for us. We're trained to play music, not to go to negotiation meetings. But there is a strong spirit in the orchestra now, and greater excitement than I've felt in the 17 years I've been there. A lot of it has to do with Kurt Masur.
"We are also feeling a new sense of ourselves as an orchestra that is part of the city, part of the community, and we don't see evenings like this as one-time things that we're doing just because of the possible strike. We've been separate from our audience for too long. We want to change that, and not only by playing in private homes. We have a political committee that is looking into things we can do for the city: playing concerts for needy causes, or whatever might be needed of us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "The principle that the Philharmonic be treated as the first among this country's orchestras is more important than the dollars," said Evangeline Benedetti, a cellist, during a chamber music evening at E. L. Doctorow's house intended to drum up support for the orchestra in its contract negotiations. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; CONCERTS AND RECITALS; STRIKES; LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; CONTRACTS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (93%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); WRITERS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); COST OF LIVING (50%); 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN EDGAR LAURENCE 'E L' DOCTOROW (92%); KURT MASUR (69%); WILLIAM CLARK STYRON JR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



685 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 19; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: HOCKEY;
The Penguins Are Sold But Price Is a Mystery

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
The sale of the Pittsburgh Penguins to a group headed by Howard Baldwin and Morris Belzberg was formally approved yesterday at a meeting of the National Hockey League Board of Governors in Manhattan.
Baldwin said the franchise had a value "in the $45 million range" but he declined to reveal how much he and Belzberg were paying. Spectacor Management Group, which operates sports facilities in many cities, is buying the lease to the Pittsburgh Civic Arena for $24 million in a separate agreement announced earlier this autumn. 
 The precise amount of money changing hands for the team remains vague. The N.H.L. said the two transactions "produced a value of $65 million." Less than two weeks ago, Baldwin said the Penguins were being bought for $36 million. Earlier reports this autumn, confirmed by Belzberg, listed the price at $31 million. In addition, the Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, the former owner, will retain a limited partnership in the Penguins.
Baldwin and Belzberg and the N.H.L. president, John Ziegler, were vague as to what the limited partnership means in terms of revenue or ownership interest. Ziegler said the DeBartolos will retain "some revenue streams" from the franchise that "may not develop." He said the limited partnership could not be described as a percentage of ownership.
 
Different Ways of Adding It Up
 "You can put different valuations on how much that is worth," Ziegler said, referring to the revenue streams. "The number may add up one way in one accounting and may come up differently in another." One possible formula could dictate that the former owners take a percentage of profit over and above a pre-determined figure. In return, they lower the sale price. It's one of many theories making the rounds in Pittsburgh.
Baldwin, formerly involved with ownership of the Hartford Whalers and the Minnesota North Stars, once again denied rumors that he and his partners planned to sell some of Pittsburgh's high-salaried players to reduce the payroll. He said he and Belzberg plan to seek local investors as partners in the near future. Paul Martha, the Penguins' vice president, had tried to buy all or part of the team but was not mentioned in yesterday's announcement. Baldwin said Martha's role would be announced Tuesday at a news conference in Pittsburgh.
Ziegler said the sale was approved by at least three-quarters of the league's 22 teams, but he declined to give a specific vote total. The board was concerned with the original structure of the deal, Ziegler said.
 
No Plan to Move Team
 "We asked them to put up more money and borrow less," Ziegler said. Ziegler said he was convinced that the new owners didn't plan to move the team. "We believe in their word," he said.
The N.H.L. is planning to expand to 24 teams next season if Tampa and Ottawa can finish paying their $50 million entry fee and satisfy other conditions of operation. The Islanders are for sale and their owner, John Pickett, has said he wants more than $55 million for the franchise, which doesn't include the lease to operate Nassau Coliseum for anything other than Islander games.
Many prospective expansion-team owners dropped out of the bidding for franchises last year, saying that the $50 million fee was unrealistically high for a league with a minor United States network television contract in the middle of a recession. The league's regular-season attendance dropped last season by 235,754 to 12,343,897 over 840 games. The board will meet again in December in Palm Beach, Fla., to discuss expansion and other matters. Tampa and Ottawa must pay the remaining $22.5 million on their entry fee by Dec. 16.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: PITTSBURGH PENGUINS EDWARD J DEBARTOLO CORP (69%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (94%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PITTSBURGH PENGUINS PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (94%); PITTSBURGH PENGUINS (94%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (93%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES SPORTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); ICE HOCKEY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); 

PERSON: LAPOINTE, JOE; BALDWIN, HOWARD; BELZBERG, MORRIS JOHN K ZIEGLER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



686 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Science Desk

LENGTH: 2447 words

HEADLINE: What Doomed the Maya? Maybe Warfare Run Amok

BYLINE: By JOHN NOBLE WILFORD

DATELINE: NASHVILLE

 BODY:
AFTER hacking through tropical jungles in Central America and turning up stones of magnificent temples and tombs, archeologists over the years built up in their minds an idealized image of the Maya people who once flourished where now only wilderness thrives.
The Mayas' civilization was clearly the greatest to flourish in pre-Columbian America. They studied the heavens to devise precise calendars, created a true writing system and built imposing cities, with no evidence of any fortifications. Hence, archeologists assumed, the Mayas were an unusually gentle, peaceful people living in a relatively benign theocracy ruled by sage priest-kings. 
 But the earlier archeologists apparently got it wrong. In the last few years scholars have made great strides in translating the Mayas' previously indecipherable writing system. From the emerging texts and from recent excavations has emerged a new, at times bewildering, picture of the Maya civilization at its peak, from A.D. 250 to 900. Great as their cultural and economic achievements manifestly were, they had anything but a peaceful society.
Indeed, the latest feeling among scholars is that the increasing militarism of Maya society may have undermined the ecological underpinnings of the economy. Some of them speculate that siege warfare concentrated population in urban centers, caused desperate farmers to abandon previously successful practices of diversified agriculture and led to overexploitation of the forest.
Dr. Arthur A. Demarest, an archeologist at Vanderbilt University here who directs an ambitious Maya dig in Guatemala, said the evidence from stone art and texts points to the surprising conclusion that "the Maya were one of the most violent state-level societies in the New World, especially after A.D. 600."
Various writings and artifacts, Dr. Demarest said, indicate continual raiding and warfare between the elites of adjacent city-states and also the practice of ritual bloodletting and human sacrifice. The prestige of ruling dynasties, and hence their power, seemed to depend on their success in battle and the sacrifice of prisoners of war.
Dr. Linda Schele, a Maya scholar at the University of Texas at Austin, writes in this month's issue of Natural History magazine, "We don't know if the early Maya went to war mainly to acquire territory, take booty, control conquered groups for labor, take captives for sacrifice in sanctification rituals or a combination of these."
Whatever the specific goal, archeologists think that for centuries the wars were limited to ritualized conflicts between the elite troops of two rulers. The losing ruler was sometimes decapitated with great ceremony, as depicted in Maya art.
Dr. David Freidel, an archeologist at Southern Methodist University, surmises that Maya conflicts functioned to maintain a balance of power between city-states of roughly equal strength. He has called this a system of "peace through war."
But recent excavations by Dr. Demarest's team at the ancient city of Dos Pilas, in northern Guatemala, have revealed the remains of extensive fortifications seemingly erected in haste and other evidence that the character and scope of Maya warfare began to change in the seventh or eighth century. These signs of siege warfare, Dr. Demarest said, indicate an escalation of militarism involving the general population in a desperate fight for survival.
Therein may lie telling clues to the most enduring mystery about the Maya civilization -- its sudden collapse. Dr. Demarest speculates that increasingly destructive warfare disrupted the delicate balance that Maya farmers had been able to maintain for centuries in the rich but fragile tropical-forest ecosystem.
By the 10th century, Dos Pilas and other cities of the lowland Maya culture were abandoned, survived mainly by newer cities on the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico.
"It's a very exciting time in Maya studies," Dr. Demarest said. "It's time for new editions of all the textbooks."
 
Writing on the Wall
Monumental Texts On Love and War
 The critical turning point, archeologists agree, has come with the steady progress in deciphering Maya writings, complex hieroglyphics that once were thought to be incomprehensible. Scholars can now read monumental texts documenting the ascent to power of rulers, their marriages and alliances and especially their wars. Scholars are thus better able to interpret the temple ruins and stones graven with scenes of dynastic triumphs and gory ritual.
"No Egyptian tomb's discovery was ever more exhilarating than the decipherment process under way today," Dr. Freidel said. "We can now perceive the Maya past through the words and exploits of kings and queens and high nobility. We can talk about real historical individuals making difficult decisions about their government and its policies."
In what is now called the Classic Period, from 250 to 900, the Mayas built some 200 cities in southern Mexico, Guatemala, Belize and parts of Honduras and El Salvador. Places like Palenque, Tikal and Copan, with their soaring pyramids bespeaking wealth and a powerful ideology, represent the splendors of the period.
More recent discoveries, however, have revealed that the civilization was prospering in the southern lowlands of Guatemala centuries before the classic period.
Two years ago, Dr. Richard Hansen of the University of California at Los Angeles reported uncovering at the site of Nakbe the ruins of pyramids and stone buildings dating back some 2,600 years. In the same region, El Mirador, one of the largest Maya cities ever excavated, was settled some 2,500 years ago, rose to prominence with all the architectural accoutrements of royal power and then vanished in the first century.
Research at El Mirador and Nakbe and other pre-Classic ruins has led scholars to the recognition that the Maya civilization evolved earlier and was more complex and heterogeneous than had been thought. Since the Aztecs of central Mexico had not risen to prominence and power this early, archeologists can no longer attribute the rise of the Maya culture to their influence. Maya origins remain clouded, scholars say.
Dr. Peter Mathews, a Maya scholar at the University of Calgary in Canada, has analyzed the "emblem glyphs" of Maya rulers to establish the outlines of the political boundaries of the classic city-states. These glyphs appear like a crest on all the monuments of a period and place. By tracing the extent of their occurrence, Dr. Mathews could define the territory controlled by a particular ruler. Often the radius of a ruler's domain was no more than the distance a person could walk or travel by canoe in a day.
Some archeologists believe these cities were organized into some kind of loose political confederation. But new evidence seems to contradict this view. Instead, these myriad city-states were linked simply by elite interactions, trade and ideology into a single ethnically distinct system. Dr. Freidel and Dr. Jeremy Sabloff, a Maya archeologist at the University of Pittsburgh, refer to it as a "peer-polity" network.
 
Violence Abounds
Celebrating With Bloodletting
 Even the ruins of the early cities, archeologists point out, bear witness to a violent Maya past. Stones depict severed heads and rulers of these kingdoms standing with bound captives. In other ruins, archeologists have found the dismembered or decapitated remains of sacrificed victims buried under floors of public buildings.
So Dr. Schele, a leading epigrapher analyzing the Maya hieroglyphs, has concluded that "war was already a part of Maya life at the beginning of their written history, some 2,000 years ago."
The first war known from a readable record was fought in 378 between Tikal and Uaxactun, two city-states in the Peten, which is a tropical-forest region of northern Guatemala. Dr. Mathews made this discovery in deciphering descriptions on stone monuments at both cities. Dr. Freidel and Dr. Schele concluded that this had been a war of conquest.
Dr. Schele said a stone monument at Uaxactun noted the date of the conflict and the name of the victorious general, Smoking-Frog. The other side of the monument depicts Smoking-Frog holding an obsidian-edged club and a spear-thrower and wearing battle garb.
Another monument at Tikal records the same date and establishes that the city's ruler was Great-Jaguar-Paw, who celebrated the victory with a ceremony of bloodletting from his genitals. Smoking-Frog, his brother, eventually succeeded him to power, but ruled from Uaxactun. Scholars consider this strong evidence of territorial gain in a war of conquest.
The rise of Maya militarism and the transition from limited conflicts to total warfare has been most clearly illuminated in the archeological and epigraphic discoveries by Dr. Demarest's Vanderbilt team. They are exploring the Peten jungle near Lake Petexbatun in northern Guatemala, where the Mayas had six great cities and many villages.
The most revealing site so far has been Dos Pilas, a large city-state founded early in the seventh century, perhaps by people from Tikal. Last year the archeologists uncovered a huge stone stairway with carved images of warfare and the torture and execution of captives and also inscribed with hieroglyphs describing events in the city's early history.
As deciphered by Dr. Stephen D. Houston and David Stuart, young Vanderbilt epigraphers, the text documents a series of wars in the reign of Ruler I, the unnamed king in the late seventh century. The wars were between the Dos Pilas dynasty and their royal relatives at Tikal. And they ended with the defeat of Tikal in 678 and the capture and sacrifice of the Tikal king, Shield-Skull.
The next 70 years, Dr. Demarest said, Dos Pilas thrived as a military power, expanding by conquest of neighboring states, by marriage alliances and by some kind of alliance with the distant metropolis of Calakmul, in Mexico. Eventually Dos Pilas controlled more than 2,000 square miles of rain forest territory, possibly the largest kingdom in Maya history.
 
Ecological Notes
A Few Lessons For Society Today
 In assessing the mounting evidence of Maya warfare, archeologists remained puzzled by what they had not found -- any ruins of fortifications or hint that settlements were established in defensible positions. This might be understandable in the centuries of limited conflicts, when the victors did not actually conquer defeated territories, but simply returned home with a few noble captives for public sacrifice. But where were the fortifications for the escalating general warfare toward the end of the classic period?
Excavations in the last two years at Dos Pilas have supplied the answer. The Vanderbilt archeologists found the remains of hastily constructed concentric walls around the main palaces and temples. A peninsula in the lake had been cut off from the mainland by moats, creating an island fortress.
The desperate nature of the siege, Dr. Demarest said, can be seen where palisade walls were erected by dismantling palace facades for the stones. In one case, a defensive wall ran directly through the center of the royal palace. Spear points and skeletons of decapitated young men were found near the walls. Within some walls were the remains of a crudely constructed village, presumably where people from the embattled countryside had sought refuge.
Dos Pilas, Dr. Demarest said, became "a post-apocalyptic, totally militarized landscape." The city-state was defeated in 760, its ruler decapitated and his kingdom splintered into warring factions, never to rise again.
One of the many enigmas of the Mayas is that they managed to achieve what few major civilizations have done, supporting a complex society and large population on the thin soil and dispersed resources of tropical forests. Exactly how this was accomplished is poorly understood.
But the emerging view of the lowland Classic Maya culture suggests possible causes for the civilization's disintegration.
Reviewing the evidence, Dr. Demarest noted that the needs of defense could not violate the fundamental tenets of the Mayas' adaptation to rain forest living: dispersion and diversity of agriculture. Their ecology decreed that warfare had to be limited in just the way that is reflected in the archeological ruins. Before 700 in the lowlands of Guatemala at least, the Maya lived mostly in outlying settlements near their fields and in large cities, all undefended and apparently exempt from raiding.
As warfare became more widespread, Dr. Demarest and others have concluded, food shortages forced the peasants into destructive farming practices and drove others into overcrowded, impoverished cities for protection behind stone walls. The balance between ecology and "peace through war" had been fatally disrupted.
Dr. Demarest has also explored the causes for the rising militarism and speculates that it could have resulted from a case of too many chiefs. It was probably not a general population explosion that contributed to the collapse, as has been conjectured, but a sharp increase in the elite population.
"Too many noblemen were competing for power," Dr. Demarest said. "Princes are expensive. Everyone has got to have a palace, jade and expensive dress. They compete for nonutilitarian, status-reinforcing goods and for warriors to fight their wars. They tend to be selfish and think only of the short term."
Dr. Demarest paused, then suggested an analogy between the Mayas and contemporary American society. "You might say we have a too-many-elites situation ourselves," he said. "Nobody wants to be blue collar anymore."
For the Classic Maya, at any rate, archeologists are beginning to recognize that the power of rulers may have derived less from economic or territorial control than ideology. Maya art and architecture, Dr. Freidel said, shows that the Maya viewed their leaders as embodiments of the universe, and in exchange for privilege and power, elites provided religious services and acted as intermediaries with the spiritual world.
Such a political framework, Dr. Demarest suggested, sets the stage for expansion of spheres of influence through the force of a leader's charisma and through propaganda victories in inter-elite warfare. This, in turn, would account for the apparent instability of Maya states as seen in their rapid expansions and contractions. Their civilization endured these violent changes for centuries, but once the Mayas' style of life started to undermine the ecological basis on which it depended, their entire civilization rapidly collapsed and vanished into the jungle.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Arthur A. Demarest of Vanderbilt University, director of Maya excavations in Guatemala.; David Stuart, epigrapher at Vanderbilt, examining a Maya staircase in Guatemala. He and a colleague decoded a text that told of a series of wars between seventh-century Maya city-states. (Photographs from the Petexbatun Archeological Projects) (pg. C10)
 
Map of Guatemala highlighting Dos Pilas (pg. C10)
 
Diagrams: "Events and Rulers"
Reconstruction of Maya history surged after the crucial discovery that the inscriptions refer to real events and people and that a hieroglyph can be a phonetic syllable as well as a whole word or emblem.
 
Celebrating A Conqueror
 A large monument called a stela commemorates Ruler 3 of Dos Pilas, possibly the largest of all the Mayan kingdoms. On the left of this text are details from the large drawing at right, which glorifies the ruler with sacred symbols: 1, a mask of Tlaloc, a war deity; 2, a human skull, symbol of Venus, the war planet; 3, a jaguar head with the mandible of a butterfly, crowned with an owl; 4, jaguar boots and trappings, emblems of the fierce warrior and favorite ceremonial cloth; 5, the defeated, captive king who would probably have been tortured and, finally, decapitated.
 
Final Siege of Dos Pilas
 It has recently been discovered that Dos Pilas fell in A.D. 760. Researchers have found the foundations of stone walls built to protect the central precinct from the onslaught of another state, Tamarindito. Dos Pilas was defeated and abandoned. (Source: Arthur Demarest) (pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VENUS (74%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW WORLD LIBRARY (54%); NEW WORLD WINES (54%); NEW WORLD SOFTWARE (54%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (82%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (82%); VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VENUS (74%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (93%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MAYANS; WRITING AND WRITERS; AGRICULTURE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARCHAEOLOGY (94%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); TRENDS (78%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (75%); RELIGION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); WRITERS (71%); 

PERSON: WILFORD, JOHN NOBLE

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



687 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1891 words

HEADLINE: A Hoarder's Life: Filling the Cache -- And Finding It

BYLINE: By JANE E. BRODY

 BODY:
AS winter closes in, the stage has been set for the annual life-or-death struggle between the hoarders of food and the raiders they must fend off.
Lacking access to a year-round supermarket, the many species -- from ants to wolves -- that in the course of evolution have learned the advantages of hoarding must devote a lot of energy and ingenuity to protecting their stashes from marauders. 
 Creatures like beavers and honeybees, for example, hoard food to get them through cold winters. Others, like desert rodents that face food scarcities throughout the year, must take advantage of the short-lived harvests that follow occasional rains. For animals like burying beetles that dine on mice hundreds of times their size, a habit of biting off more than they can chew at the moment forces them to store their leftovers. Still others, like the male MacGregor's bowerbird, stockpile goodies during mating season so they can concentrate on wooing females and defending their arena de l'amour.
But for the convenience of having caches of food, these hoarders pay a price, noted Dr. Stephen P. Vander Wall, an ecologist at the University of Nevada, in his book "Food Hoarding in Animals," published last year by the University of Chicago Press. They must remember where they stashed it and defend it against others looking for a free lunch.
The hoarders have developed many different strategies to handle these problems. Some, like the eastern chipmunk, concentrate their supplies in underground burrows where it is easily guarded but risks being forfeited in a single raid. Others, like Clark's nutcracker and white-footed mice, spread their stores among hundreds of different sites which, though each is more vulnerable to raiders, give safety in numbers.
Locating buried food stores is a difficult task for which different species have evolved various strategies. Dr. Vander Wall has demonstrated how yellow pine chipmunks depend on memory of visual landmarks, not their sense of smell, to relocate caches. In an experiment he relocated the landmarks surrounding a chipmunk's storage site and found that though the animal came up empty-pawed, it dug in the correct spot in relation to the newly positioned landmarks.
 
A Prodigious Memory
 Gray squirrels, the ultimate practitioners of scattered storage, strain the limits of memory by storing each nut in a separate hole. Nonetheless, studies by Dr. Lucia Jacobs of the University of Utah strongly suggested that these busy little rodents do in fact remember where they put their nuts and may even respect the caches of their neighbors.
Dr. Jacobs dug up nuts the squirrels had buried and refilled the holes with other nuts. She also planted nuts in new holes nearby. But when it was the squirrels' turn to feed, they dug up the nuts she had buried in their own holes in preference to similar smelling nuts she had stashed in nearby holes that might have belonged to another squirrel.
But for most hoarding animals, there is keen competition for stored food. "Any creature that stores food faces myriad parasites and predators, and every foe has a different set of tools for getting through the hoarder's defenses, Dr. Thomas D. Seeley, an animal behaviorist at Cornell University, said in an interview.
As the author of "Honeybee Ecology: A Study of Adaptation in Social Life" (Princeton University Press), Dr. Seeley expressed great admiration for the way honeybees gather, use and defend their very rich energy supply.
 
Strategies of Honeybees
 He found that honeybees had evolved at least three strategies to protect the 60 pounds or so of honey that a colony of 15,000 bees needs to survive the winter:
*To prevent spoilage by fungi and bacteria, the bees treat the honey with an enzyme that generates free radicals, in effect sterilizing the honey with hydrogen peroxide. Then they remove most of the water, making the sugar too concentrated for microorganisms to survive.
*To defend against small predators, honeybees build a solid nest with a small opening that keeps out most invaders. Tiny intruders like ants that might try to sneak in are blown back by wing beats or pulled apart by a team of bees.
*And, of course, for large predators like bears and people, the bees are prepared to yield their lives by stinging.
 
Caches of Kangaroo Rats
 Kangaroo rats that live in the deserts of the Southwest have evolved quite a different strategy against spoilage. Dr. O. J. Reichman, a biologist at Kansas State University in Manhattan, said these desert rodents create huge underground storehouses containing hundreds of thousands of seeds that may be attacked by more than 30 species of fungi, some of which are beneficial but others of which produce powerful poisons.
Dr. Reichman said the animals seemed to "manage" fungal growth to favor benefits over risks. Preliminary evidence suggests that when the rats encounter a toxic substance, they can stop metabolizing it and thus prevent it from doing damage. On the other hand, he said, some fungi enhances the nutritive value of the rats' stored food, just as fermented soybeans are easier to digest than the bean itself. He showed that the rats could actively control fungal growth by repeatedly moving stored food to areas of different humidity.
Animals that eat fleshy foods have adopted a common farm technique to keep their stash from spoiling. As Dr. Vander Wall recounted in his book, small rabbit-like mammals called pikas, some of the small rodents called voles and the great gerbils that harvest fresh green vegetables in late summer and fall transport the food to hay piles near their burrows, where it slowly cures.
Some hoarders that remain active in cold weather take advantage of winter's natural refrigeration to prevent their stores from spoiling. In northern latitudes, the carcasses of rodents stored by owls in winter often freeze. Before the birds can eat, their frozen dinner must be thawed, which the owl accomplishes by sitting on the meal as if it were an egg.
 
Keeping Prey Alive
 Another way to increase the shelf life of stored prey is to keep the meal alive until the hoarder is ready to dine. Shrikes have been seen to impale their live prey on thorns or barbed wire, where the doomed captives can only wait to become dinner. Spiders often wrap their wriggling prey in silk, and spider wasps, in turn, inflict paralyzing stings on the spiders they catch. Short-tailed shrews transmit a toxin in their saliva that renders mice, earthworms and insects comatose, allowing the prey to remain alive for five days without escaping, spoiling or losing nutritive value.
Often, one species' loss is another's gain. The yellow pine chipmunk, which prepares thousands of caches of seeds each fall, never recovers all of them before the spring germination begins. In this way the chipmunk becomes a primary seed sower of yellow pine and antelope bitterbrush, a shrub that deer depend on for food, Dr. Vander Wall explained.
Indeed, some plants have adapted through evolution to make themselves more attractive to hoarding animals. For example, Dr. Vander Wall has reported, certain soft pines with wingless seeds that are not otherwise readily dispersed have evolved to produce cones with highly nutritious, large seeds that are easily harvested by jays and nutcrackers.
Other plants, like the lodgepole pine, have evolved in the opposite direction. Red squirrels are avid foragers of the lodgepole's cones, hoarding perhaps 15 or more bushels of cones in a midden and storing them under thick mats of old cone debris where they have virtually no chance to establish seedlings.
 
Keeping Out Competitors
 Dr. Chrisopher C. Smith, a professor of biology at Kansas State University, said the tree's response was to produce seeds that were unattractive and hard for the squirrels to harvest. But the squirrel also evolved, developing stronger jaw muscles that enable the animal to open the tough, spiny cones.
Some animals seem to invite marauders. Communities of acorn woodpeckers stockpile huge quantities of food by drilling thousands of shallow wedge-shaped holes into the trunks of dead trees and stuffing each hole with just the right size nut.
As the nuts dry out and shrink, Dr. Vander Wall explained, the birds move them to smaller holes, wedging them in so tightly that animals without long beaks are hard put to remove them. Nonetheless, the colony has sentry birds that stand watch over the food supply, defending it against squirrels and other potential thieves.
Honey ants of the Southwest take no chances on predation or spoilage; worker ants called "repletes" store the colony's food in their turgid bodies, then hang like quartered lambs from the ceiling of domed chambers where they regurgitate food as needed by their colony-mates.
But, as studies of the eastern chipmunk have shown, all is far from perfect in the world of food hoarders. Lang Elliott, then at the University of Maryland, found that the two-to-three-year supply of beechnuts stored in underground burrows by the chipmunks was attacked by beetles, infected by blue mold and pilfered by other chipmunks. Many of the nuts that survived this onslaught germinated, leaving the rodent with a small return on its food-storing investment.
Yet the energy expended in food gathering and hoarding must be outweighed by caloric gain or the hoarding genes would themselves fall prey to natural selection, Dr. Vander Wall noted.
"No one knows what proportion of stored food actually gets eaten," he said. "I suspect that it is half or more, but that is only a guess. Clark's nutcracker, the species I studied as a graduate student, stores two to three times the seeds it needs, so that even if the bird recovers only a third of what it stores, it is enough to survive the winter and enable it to breed in spring."
Still, he added, the animals with the best return on their investments are those that "cheat" by stealing the food stored by others, in some cases their own friends and relatives. In an experiment that simulated the caches of northwestern crows in Vancouver, more than 80 percent of clams stored by the researchers disappeared within seven days, and nearly 85 percent of horse chestnuts buried in the soil in a Canadian cemetery were removed by gray squirrels over a period of five months. In another experiment involving nutcracker-like food hoards, 57 to 95 percent of the stored nuts were snatched by cache robbers.
Another factor influencing the economics of food hoarding is the energy expended to retrieve the stored food, especially for animals that widely scatter their hoards. Studies by J. David Henry in Saskatchewan and others showed that red foxes have a bookkeeping system; they urinate to mark cache sites after they have removed the food from them. This may tell the animals not to bother digging at the site because the cache is empty even though it retains a lingering odor of food, Dr. Vander Wall suggested.
The Nevada biologist, who spent five years collecting and analyzing nearly 1,500 scientific reports on food hoarding to produce his book, said there were still many unanswered questions to invite future research. "In 10 years, I suspect it won't be possible to collect all the findings on food hoarding between the covers of one book," he said.


GRAPHIC: Researchers have discovered that this chipmunk finds its hidden winter stores by using landmarks, not its sense of smell. When landmarks are moved, it searches in the correct place relative to the repositioned markers.
 
Acorn woodpecker
Diagrams: Yellow pine chipmunk
 Thousands of nuts and acorns are stockpiled by bird colonies in custom-chiseled niches in dead trees. As the nuts dry and shrink, they are moved to still smaller holes, to protect them from animals without long beaks.
 
Burying beetle
 Capable of moving a full-grown mouse many times their size up to 3.2 feet an hour, these beetles burrow under the carcass on the side toward its eventual burying site. As they move under it, they push it toward the hole. (pg C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FOOD HOARDING IN ANIMALS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEVADA, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (58%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ANIMALS; HOARDING RODENTS (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); RELOCATIONS (66%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E; VANDER, STEPHEN P (DR)

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



688 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
The Fan Who Pays The Salary

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW

 BODY:
AT a Knick game in Madison Square Garden recently, a fan in a sweatshirt and jeans stood at courtside and shouted hello to the players. An usher came over. "C'mon, move it," he said. "Get up to where you belong." The guy had apparently found his way to the classy seats from the boonies.
"Hey, whaddya pushin'?' " the guy said to the usher. "I'm payin' these guys' salaries."
Some people in the vicinity, in suit and tie, smiled at his presumption, this guy paying Patrick Ewing his $30 million. Fact is, he is certainly contributing, and so were those nearby. And they are paying more and more, and often getting less and less. 
 This is not just with the Knicks, but with the other teams in town, too.
This came to mind when the Mets announced recently that they were raising ticket prices. Most seats for home games next season will be priced at $1 more than they were this year: If, say, you had a loge or reserved mezzanine seat last season for $11, you'll pay $12 this season; if you had a field box for $14 before, you'll have to cough up $15 now.
And since the Mets fell from second place in the National League East in 1990 to fifth place in 1991, and there is no guarantee they'll improve in 1992, then what the Mets are asking the fan to do is pay more money for less winning baseball.
But wait, maybe there's hope: "We will be doing extensive retooling of our major league club and will be active in the free-agent market," said Frank Cashen, the club's senior executive vice president. "Our stated purpose is to return the Mets to the top spot in the National League."
That is, the Mets are hiking prices so fans can help pay for Viola's new multimillion-dollar contract, and so the Mets can perhaps entice Bonilla to join them for, say, $25 million for five years. Cashen's statement indicated that because the salaries of athletes have skyrocketed, the fans, despite being battered by a foul economy, must bear some of the burden.
The fans learn once again that they are, in effect, being held responsible for the poor money management of sports teams, which, at first blush, appears pretty looney. On second blush, the owners are able, in most cases, to sell their teams at huge profits, so the strategy of the fans digging deeper has its substantial rewards, for ownership. (The Mets were purchased by Nelson Doubleday and Fred Wilpon in 1980 for $21 million, and the team today is believed to be worth in the neighborhood of $250 million.)
But fans also seem to be paying the price for some of the cheesy personnel moves of Cashen and others, trading players who have succeeded in other places, and bringing in players who haven't succeeded in this place. Where have you gone, Kevin Mitchell?
So maybe the Mets are in a bind, and feel they have no choice but to raise ticket prices to try to patch up previous mistakes. Maybe they've hit their heads against a wall to devise other ways to garner the revenue, but this year, this one year, they've come up empty.
One might wish to bleed for them, until it is recalled that the Mets raised ticket prices the year before, and the year before that, and the year before that. Go back to 1985, the year before their winning the World Series.
At Shea Stadium, the reserved mezzanine, to use a typical example, was $7.50; the price rose in each succeeding year from $8 to $8.50 to $9 to $9.50 to $10 to $11 to the current, allegedly Viola-and-Bonilla inspired, $12. In fact, the worse the Mets do, the more attendance drops (they were over 3 million in 1987 and 1988, and down to 2.28 million last season), and the more the fans pay.
Across the river, the Yankees, who haven't yet announced their ticket plans for the coming season, are also expected to raise prices.
Yankee prices have pretty much followed the Mets' prices, and gone from, for example, $8.25 in the lower reserved tier in 1985 to $12 last season, and bleacher seats have gone from $1.50 six years ago to $4.50 last year. The Yankees may have good reason to raise ticket prices. After all, they improved last season, zooming from seventh place in 1990 to fifth place, and losing only 91 games instead of 95.
Meanwhile, as the Knicks foundered, their courtside seats in the last six years leaped from $20 to as high as $65, and upper mezzanine from $10 to $16. It is just about the same for the Rangers.
And since the teams haven't given us more sports entertainment, they've sometimes tried diversionary tactics. Like the Knick City Girls, the dance troupe that is falling flat at the Garden.
The fans, including that guy who was shoved upstairs by the usher, are paying their salaries, too.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Price rise at Shea. (Vic DeLuca/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); NEW YORK METS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; SHEA STADIUM (NYC) WAGES & SALARIES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); TICKET SALES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA PATRICK ALOYSIUS EWING (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



689 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
The Louisiana Lesson

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Now for the really good news from Louisiana: The campaign against David Duke shows how he can be defeated again if he tries for national office -- he or the likes of him.
Yes, we all know that the country is not rid of him. And it is obvious that Patrick Buchanan, a politician who uses journalistic print and air to become the rally point for the Republican right wing, will sooner or later put hat, foot and mouth in the Presidential ring. 
 It's not the first time in American history that men of the far and nasty right have come center stage. But this time they scare more people -- and should.
The country is suffering from the social diseases that are the historic breeding grounds of bigotry and Fascism -- unemployment, bank collapses, corruption, cynicism, racial and religious clashes.
But it is no more realistic to be fatalistic about the Dukes and Buchanans, to cower and say look, the wave of the future, than to dismiss them as fringe kooks.
For this truth, the country owes a debt of gratitude to all the blacks of Louisiana, to black leaders like Jesse Jackson who spent years beseeching them to register, and to the 45 percent of white voters who decided that David Duke did not sit well with their religion or sense of country. They were a minority, sadly, but a decisive lot more than he expected.
I asked Lance Hill, director of the Louisiana Coalition against Nazism and Racism, which fought David Duke early and long, the lessons of the election that could be used again against a Duke or a dukeling. In my own synthesis, they are:
1. Do not count on "malign neglect." While you turn out the lights in disgust and go to sleep, these characters are busy in the dark.
2. "Throw water on his burning cross." That means decode, decode, decode.
When a Duke talks of unwed welfare mothers he means blacks, as if poor white girls without rings never get pregnant. When he talks about Christian European values he means "Jews out."
Mr. Buchanan also talked in easily decipherable code when he said that only the Israeli Defense Ministry and its "amen corner" in the United States wanted war in the Persian Gulf. Whole subjects are codes: the Holocaust wasn't all that bad; women should get child welfare provided they implant long-term birth control.
3. By their fruit -- and their words -- shall we know them. Don't let them get away with shucksism -- oh, shucks, folks, when I paraded in a sheet, I was just a little feller. Or I didn't knows Jews would be so sensitive to Holocaust demeanment. They knew then; they know now.
4. Don't deny the truth. It is fiction that unemployment is caused by affirmative action. It is fiction that unemployment will be solved by some cockamamie economic theory, left or right, that says that all we need is some other cockamamie theory that has not yet quite worked.
But it is fact that working people are terrified by unemployment and business people by the drying up of credit. It is fact that no politician has yet come up with solutions. But it is also fact that nation-dividing racism and the codes of hatred are the open roads to the economic graveyard.
5. Don't be frightened by talk of backlash against "outside" criticism. National attention made David Duke every bigot's pinup. But he would have been a lot more politically sexy had he won. One reason he did not was that enough whites were deeply ashamed of what the whole nation was seeing from Louisiana.
6. Organize the fight against Dukes and Buchanans across the board -- liberals, conservatives, whites, blacks, Christians, Jews, Muslims, unions, business people, clergymen, writers, individuals or organizations.
The coalition should have a unified message: This man is a danger to the kind of town, city, state, country and world, all of them, that we want to live in.
My own number 7 is: Expect reverses. David Duke may be elected to Congress and if he runs, Mr. Buchanan may do well in New Hampshire where the vote is small and fringes could count.
All right, then back to numbers one through six. For inspiration and a fast boost off your seat, think of a Duke-Buchanan ticket. That should bring the bucket brigade to the burning crosses.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LOUISIANA UNITED STATES (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION; NEO-NAZI GROUPS; JEWS ; ANTI-SEMITISM US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RACE & RACISM (88%); HOLOCAUST (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); HISTORY (75%); RELIGION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (61%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: DUKE, DAVID R (STATE REPR); ROSENTHAL, A M; BUCHANAN, PATRICK JESSE JACKSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



690 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: Civil Rights Exemption Unfair to Asians

 BODY:
To the Editor:
We believe the exemption from the provisions of the Civil Rights Act of 1991 of the very employer involved in one of the 1989 Supreme Court decisions that provided the impetus for that law should disturb all Americans. John P. MacKenzie's position in "An Exception to Civil Rights Rules" (Editorial Notebook, Nov. 8) that the exemption is an acceptable price to pay to obtain President Bush's signature on the bill is one that cannot be condoned. 
 What is the message when the Wards Cove Packing Company will itself be the only company in America that is above the law? Under basic principles of fairness and justice, the Asian Pacific American cannery workers who initiated the case, which has not been finally adjudicated, deserve to have their claims decided by the courts under the same rules that apply to every other American.
From our perspective, the Wards Cove exemption raises troubling questions concerning the politics of race. The Wards Cove case involves racially discriminatory conduct directed at Asian Pacific Americans, such as segregated housing and dining facilities and relegation of minorities to menial jobs with no realistic prospect of promotion.
These employment practices are so egregious that Associate Justice John P. Stevens stated in Wards Cove Packing Company v. Atonio (490 U.S. 664 note 4, 1989) that they bear "an unsettling resemblance to aspects of a plantation economy." Such conduct cannot be tolerated in this country.
A number of civil rights groups, such as the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, American Jewish Committee and Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, opposed the Wards Cove exemption.
The Asian Pacific American community is working with members of the Senate and the House of Representatives to enact new legislation in the next few weeks to delete the Wards Cove provision from the Civil Rights Act.
 
DENNIS HAYASHI
PEGGY NAGAE LUM, DAPHNE KWOK
Washington, Nov. 11, 1991
 
The writers are officers of, respectively, the Japanese American Citizens League, National Asian Pacific American Bar Association and Organization of Chinese Americans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (94%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: WARDS COVE PACKING CO WARDS COVE PACKING CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARDS COVE PACKING CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; QUOTAS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1991; ASIAN-AMERICANS; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION ; CIVIL RIGHTS CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); POLITICS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); RACE & RACISM (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); 

PERSON: HAYASHI, DENNIS; LUM, PEGGY NAGAE ; KWOK, DAPHNE GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



691 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 19, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Notes and Bonds Decline in Price

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The stock market's return to stability helped to push down prices of Treasury notes and bonds yesterday, but credit market participants said the drop was of minimal significance.
On Friday, when stocks registered their biggest decline in more than two years, investors poured money into short-term notes and bills. When it became apparent that a further big drop was not likely to take place yesterday, those positions were unwound. 
 "It's generally been a quiet day," one government bond trader said. "Most economists are still looking for the Fed to lower rates once if not twice more before the end of the year. And the economy is not showing any signs of strength."
The prospect of lower short-term rates kept sales of shorter-term instruments at a minimum, and helped to increase demand at the Treasury's weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills.
In their daily market commentary, analysts at MMS International, an economic information service company, said the firm expects the Fed to lower the overnight Federal funds rate by another quarter of a percent before the end of the year and to follow that up in January with a further cut in the funds rate and a half-point cut in the discount rate.
The Fed's current target for the funds rate is widely seen as 4 3/4 percent. The discount rate is at 4 1/2 percent.
Recovery in the stock market did not seem to sit well with bond investors, however.
"Essentially, the market was just shadow-boxing with the stock market, and bonds moved in the opposite direction of stocks," said Ward McCarthy, a managing director at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates, a Princeton, N.J. firm that provides research and commentary on developments in the foreign exchange and credit markets.
 
Recovery in Equity Prices
 A decision by House leaders to postpone the markup of legislation to put a cap on credit card interest rates was "probably the major reason" equity prices recovered yesterday, Mr. McCarthy said.
Echoing a sentiment that was voiced often yesterday, Mr. McCarthy said that Congress, which has rattled financial markets repeatedly over the last few weeks as it has considered ways to stimulate the economy, would best serve the economy by putting aside all such deliberations and adjourning.
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve Board chairman, who came out strongly against legislation to cap credit card interest rates late last week, will not begin his confirmation hearings for reappointment to his post today, as had been expected.
It was announced yesterday that because the Senate is expected to consider a banking bill today, Mr. Greenspan's hearing before the Senate Banking Committee will not be held until later in the week.
At yesterday's Treasury bill auction, the new three-month bills were sold at an average discount rate of 4.58 percent, down from the average rate of 4.64 percent last week.
Bids on the new six-month bills generated an average discount rate of 4.62 percent, compared with an average rate of 4.71 percent at the auction a week ago.
In the secondary market for Treasury notes and bonds, the 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 101 26/32 late yesterday, down 15/32, to yield 7.84 percent, compared with 7.81 percent late Friday.
Among note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered at 101 6/ 32, down 9/32, to yield 7.33 percent. And the 6 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 7/8, down 2/32, to yield 5.51 percent.
Tension eased somewhat in the market for asset-backed securities, which has been paralyzed in recent days because of the credit card interest rate debate.
Traders in that market said that prices of most issues were little changed, but that very few securities were actually changing hands.
In the investment-grade corporate bond market, Utilicorp United Inc. offered $150 million worth of 30-year senior notes through an underwriting group led by Goldman, Sachs & Company.
The 9 percent notes, which are non-callable for 10 years, were priced at $99.053, to yield 9.092 percent, 1.25 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated Baa-2 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Participants in the tax-exempt municipal bond market began to brace themselves for a huge volume of new debt securities that will be offered this week, beginning with the sale today of $1.2 billion worth of new bonds for New York City.
Municipal bond traders said that prices of most widely quoted secondary issues fell by about1/4 point yesterday.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98,842	97,664	Discounted Rate	4.58%	4.62%	Coupon Yield	4.71%	4.81%	High Price	98,852	97,680	Discounted Rate	4.54%	4.59%	Coupon Yield	4.67%	4.78%	Low Price	98,842	97,664	Discounted Rate	4.58%	4.62%	Coupon Yield	4.71%	4.81%	Accepted at low price	69%	82%	Total applied for	$33,576,095	$28,820,905	Accepted	$10,244,520	$10,209,685	N.Y. applied for	$30,725,315	$26,283,840	N.Y. accepted	$8,882,360	$8,890,160	Noncompetitive	$1,512,290	$1,090,840	

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate in percent at weekly auction from Aug.-Nov. 1991. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); DEBT NOTES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1991



692 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Widens; Biggest Gap in 8 Months

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
The nation's merchandise trade deficit widened to $6.79 billion in September, the biggest imbalance in eight months, the Government said today.
The Commerce Department said the September deficit was 4 percent higher than the revised $6.53 billion August trade figure as America's appetite for foreign goods rose more quickly than United States sales abroad. 
 For September, exports climbed 3 percent, to $35.43 billion, but this gain was offset by a 3.2 percent rise in imports to $42.22 billion, the highest level for imports in almost a year. The trade deficit is the difference between imports and exports.
 
Surprise to Analysts
 It marked the highest monthly trade imbalance since a $7.37 billion deficit in January. The September imbalance came as a surprise to many analysts who had been looking for a slight improvement in the trade deficit.
It was the third straight month that the deficit has worsened, a disturbing trend given that an improving trade balance had been one of the few bright spots for the American economy.
The Bush Administration hailed the rise in exports as good news for American manufacturers. But private economists were more downbeat, contending that slumping growth in some of America's major overseas markets spelled more trouble for a faltering economy.
Private economists said the recession should be given much of the credit for the sharp contraction in the trade gap because it reduced demand for imported goods.
They were also not impressed with September's rise in exports, noting that it was only the second increase in the last five months.
"Exports really haven't gone anywhere in months," said Robert Dederick, chief economist of the Northern Trust Company in Chicago. "This is just one more area of the economy where demand is failing to live up to expectations."
 
Better Than Last Year
 Even with the worsening in the trade gap over the last three months, the deficit for the year is still running at an annual rate of just $65.74 billion, far below last year's $101.72 billion deficit.
But analysts are concerned that the trend is going the wrong way and the deficit, which is forecast this year to dip below $100 billion for the first time since 1984, will start climbing again in 1992, acting as a drag on economic growth.
In September, the gain in exports was led by a $400 million increase in sales of aircraft, with smaller gains recorded in sales of oilfield equipment and semiconductors.
The jump in imports was led by a $150 million increase in foreign apparel shipments.
Oil imports fell by 5.2 percent, to $4.33 billion in September, as a drop in volume offset an increase of price. The price per barrel rose to $17.09, from $16.79 in August.
As usual, the largest deficit in September was recorded with Japan, an imbalance of $4.18 billion, which was 12 percent higher than the August level and accounted for 62 percent of the total deficit.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" shows U.S. imports and exports and the deficit created by excess of imports over exports from 10/90 to 9/91 (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NORTHERN TRUST CORP (66%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (99%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); TRENDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



693 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKET;
Dollar Closes Mostly Lower Following Tumble in Stocks

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar tumbled against most major currencies yesterday as traders took their cues from the slide in stock prices.
John McCarthy, chief dealer with ABN-AMRO Bank N.V., said the dollar followed the Dow Jones industrial average, which fell 41 points yesterday amid growing concerns about the economy. 
 Mr. McCarthy said comments by President Bush and Michael J. Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, also darkened the foreign exchange market's mood. Mr. Bush called the economy sluggish while Mr. Boskin conceded that economic growth had slowed.
The dollar closed at 1.5965 marks in New York, down from 1.6105 late Monday. In earlier European trading, the dollar fell to 1.6020 marks from 1.6065.
"The general feeling is that dollar could come lower," Mr. McCarthy said.
The mark was a standout yesterday, surging against other currencies on speculation the German Government would raise interest rates later this week. Such a move would make the mark more attractive.
Overseas dealers said the Bank of England and Bank of Spain intervened discreetly to raise the British pound because sterling was falling close to its minimum required level against the mark.
The pound fell to 2.8740 marks from 2.8812 marks in Europe. Its minimum level required by the European exchange rate mechanism, which prevents disruptive exchange rate movements, is 2.86 marks.
The pound advanced against the dollar, rising to $1.8000 in New York from $1.7900. In London, sterling rose to $1.7965, from $1.7915 late Monday.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Monday's quotes, included: 1.4165 Swiss francs, down from 1.4295; 5.4525 French francs, down from 5.5055; 1,207.00 Italian lire, down from 1,217.00, and 1.12875 Canadian dollars, unchanged.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Monday's prices, included: 1.4195 Swiss francs, down from 1.4265; 5.4710 French francs, down from 5.4945; 1.8045 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8115; 1,211.15 Italian lire, down from 1,214.75, and 1.1287 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1278.
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen, closing at 129.80 yen in New York, up from 129.48. In Tokyo overnight, the dollar rose 0.55 yen, to 129.48 yen, and in London, it was quoted at 129.85 yen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: RBS HOLDINGS NV (92%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BRITISH POUND (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (90%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



694 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 362 words

HEADLINE: C.D.'s and Bank Funds Fall

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
Yields on deposit accounts ended lower in the last week, according to The Bank Rate Monitor, an interest rate publication.
Robert K. Heady, the publisher, said yesterday that he thought the current down cycle in savings yields "still has four to six weeks to go before playing itself out." 
 That should push down many yields on short-term certificates of deposit to around 4 percent, he said, adding that some instititions like Citibank and Chemical Bank were already paying below 4 percent on some certificates of deposit and money market accounts.
"Shrinking loan demand is one cause," Mr. Heady said. "Also, banks are not aggressively chasing deposits to replace funds. Until Congress and the Administration set a specific, positive program for recovery, it is doubtful whether the yield downslide can correct itself without further intervention by the Federal Reserve."
The question he posed is: How far down is the bottom?
 
Big Citibank Cut
 Among banks in the New York area, Citibank made the largest cut in money market accounts, lowering yields by 41 basis points, to 3.67 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Regarding yields on three-month and six-month certificates, National Westminster Bank made the largest cuts, dropping them by 21 basis points, to 4.50 percent, and by 26 basis points, to 4.55 percent, respectively.
On average, the New York commercial banks have lowered the yields on their money market accounts by 5 more basis points, to 4.33 percent, in the last week. Yields on three-month certificates and on six-month certificates dropped by 6 basis points each, to 4.44 percent and 4.54 percent, respectively.
The Bank Rate Monitor said the average yields on money market accounts at 20 large banks outside the New York area had been cut by 5 basis points, to 4.64 percent, and by 6 basis points, to 4.82 percent, on six-month certificates.
At the Treasury's weekly auction on Monday, the three-month bill was auctioned at an average discount rate of 4.58 percent, compared with 4.64 percent a week earlier. The six-month bill averaged 4.62 percent, compared with 4.71 the previous week.


GRAPHIC: Annual effective yields, in percent, on money market accounts, three-month certificates of deposit and six-month C.D.'s expected at selected institutions on Wednesday, November 20,1991. Some C.D. yields assume reinvestment after maturity. Yields are based on the method of compounding and the rate stated for the lowest minimum to open an account,but minimums may vary. Higher yields may be offered for larger deposits. C.D. figures are for fixed rates only.

 	 	 	 	New York Area	 	 	 		Money	3-mo.	6-mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	C.D.	COMMERCIAL BANKS	 	 	 	Banco Popular	4.60	4.45	4.45	Bank of N.Y.	4.24	4.50	4.50	Bank of Tokyo Trust	4.40	4.05	4.00	Chase Manhattan	4.34	4.34	4.39	Chemical	4.08	3.83	3.83	Citibank	3.67	4.05	4.10	Conn. Nat'l Bank	4.65	4.91	5.07	EAB	4.24	4.50	4.60	First Fidelity (N.J.)	4.50	4.90	5.10	Fleet Bank(Conn)	4.22	4.50	4.59	Manufacturers Hanover	4.19	4.45	4.45	Marine Midland	4.28	4.29	4.45	Midlantic Bank (N.J.)	4.86	4.80	5.30	Nat'l Westminster	4.19	4.50	4.55	Republic Nat'l	4.45	4.60	4.71	SAVINGS BANKS	 	 	 	American Savings	5.00	5.00	5.20	Anchor Savings	5.13	5.20	5.33	Apple Bank Savings	4.96	5.02	5.34	Astoria Federal	4.59	4.89	4.95	Bowery Savings	4.95	5.08	5.25	Carteret Savings (N.J.)	5.38	5.40	5.65	Crossland Savings	5.20	5.25	5.45	Dime Savings Bank	5.13	5.13	5.31	Dollar Dry Dock	5.02	5.13	5.39	Emigrant Savings	5.05	4.95	5.00	First Nationwide	4.80	4.50	4.75	Green Point Savings	5.15	N.O.	5.35	Howard Savings (N.J.)	5.10	5.25	5.65	Hudson City Bk (N.J.)	5.23	5.50	5.60	People's Bank (Conn.)	4.70	4.86	4.97	
Major Banks Outside N.Y.	 	 	 	 		Money	Wkly.	6 Mo.	Wkly.		Mkt.	Chg.	C.D.	Chg.	Security Pacific (L.A.)	4.75	0.05	4.65	0.10	First National (Chicago)	4.65	0.00	4.70	0.00	Bank of Boston	4.80	0.05	5.01	0.00	Mellon (Pittsburgh)	4.60	0.00	4.70	0.00	First Interstate (L.A.)	4.48	0.11	4.44	0.16	First Union (Charlotte, N.C.)	4.75	0.00	4.50	0.20	NBD Bank (Detroit)	4.69	0.06	4.60	0.05	Union Bank (S.F.)	4.70	0.05	4.76	0.16	Fleet Bank of Mass.	4.33	0.00	4.81	0.00	Wachovia (Winston Salem, N.C.)	4.75	0.11	4.50	0.10	Maryland National Bk (Baltimore)	4.95	0.05	5.35	0.20	First Bank (Minnesota)	4.49	0.16	4.90	0.05	Meridian (Reading, Pa.)	4.60	0.00	4.95	0.05	Sovran (Richmond, Va.)	4.85	0.00	5.05	0.00	Bank One Texas (Dallas)	4.59	0.00	4.65	0.05	C & S (Atlanta)	4.76	0.16	5.05	0.00	Citibank, S.D.	4.90	0.10	5.71	0.11	Texas Commerce (Houston)	4.33	0.00	4.39	0.00	NCNB Tampa	4.50	0.10	4.95	0.00	Seafirst (Seattle)	4.36	0.00	4.70	0.00	
 
N.A. Rate not available; N.O. Not offered
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach 33408)
Table: "Bank Money Accounts"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (57%); NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (68%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); WINSTON-SALEM, NC, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (74%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (74%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (59%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (59%); READING, PA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



695 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold and Silver Prices Rise As Investors Seek Safety

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Precious metal futures prices rallied yesterday as investors sought refuge from the tumbling stock market in the historically safe harbors of silver and gold.
On New York's Commodity Exchange, gold for delivery in December rose $2.90 to settle at $364.40 an ounce. December silver climbed 4.5 cents, to $4.072 an ounce. 
Platinum climbed $4.20, to $368.40 an ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
The Dow Jones average of 30 large industrial stocks fell 41.15 points yesterday and was down more than 75 points at one point in the afternoon that coincided with the closing minutes of the metal markets.
Many investors sold stocks and fled to the perceived safety of precious metals, which historically have held their value during troubled economic times.
 
Weak Dollar Helped
 "With yields on Government debt instruments so low, people were saying why not take a flier with the gold as a hedge against an economic crisis," said Michael Segal, senior futures strategist with Geldermann Inc. in New York.
He said a weak dollar also touched off gold buying.
An offer by the seven richest democracies, including the United States, to defer interest payments on the Soviet Union's foreign debt for one year may also have supported precious metals.
Such an agreement would reduce the likelihood of large Soviet sales of gold and platinum to raise hard currency.
"It's becoming clear the Soviet Union does not have much more precious metal to sell, so any improvement on their current foreign exchange shortfall should be further supportive for the precious metals," said Fred Demler, metals economist with Paine Webber Inc.
Light sweet crude oil for December delivery fell 40 cents, to $22 a barrel. December heating oil dropped 0.96 cent, to 64.43 cents a gallon. December unleaded gasoline fell 0.78 cent, to 62.62 cents a gallon, and December natural gas plunged 9.1 cents to $1.91 for 1,000 cubic feet.
Wheat futures rose but other grain and soybean futures ended mostly lower on the Chicago Board of Trade amid uncertainty about new food aid to the Soviet Union and jitters about the stock market.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); GELDERMANN INC (69%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES; SILVER SILVER MARKETS (92%); GOLD MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); HEATING OIL (77%); CURRENCIES (75%); EXTERNAL DEBT (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



696 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Dow Loses 41.15 After Skid Slows

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Steady selling carved as much as 78 points from the Dow Jones industrial average yesterday, before buyers stepped in late in the day to stem the decline. The Dow ended the session down 41.15 points, to 2,931.57.
The decline was marked by a grim but orderly retreat in contrast to the hectic tumble on Friday, as the big professional traders stayed largely on the sidelines. 
 The market's decline, after a sharp drop in the morning, was fairly steady throughout the day. Traders attributed the orderliness of the market yesterday to a rule that restricts computer-driven program selling when the Dow Jones average of 30 industrial stocks falls at least 50 points. That level was reached yesterday at 10:41 A.M., bringing the rule into play.
 
'Collar' Took Effect
 "There were a lot of programs this morning, and then the collar went into effect, and it became very orderly," said Jeffrey Tabak, a principal at Miller Tabak Hirsch. "With the collar, people know that there aren't these avalanches of sell orders coming."
The impact of the so-called circuit breakers during last Friday's plunge of 120 points is not clear. Yesterday, Richard C. Breeden, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said the S.E.C. was examining the patterns of program trading to see if changes might be suggested.
Analysts said one of the explanations for yesterday's decline was an unexpectedly large 1.6 percent drop in the London stock market, which was responding to British concerns on interest rates. Traders were also disappointed about President Bush's wait-and-see remarks on the economy. Also cited was the decision of market professionals, who had been required to buy in last Friday's heavy selling, to lighten their positions yesterday to reduce expenses.
Mutual funds reported some modest individual buying of equity funds. Several professional money managers said they were sitting it out.
Volume on the Big Board was heavy at 241.4 million shares, nearly matching the 241.9 million traded on Monday. Losing issues outpaced gaining issues by 1,439 to 341.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks was down 5.82, to 379.42, while the New York Stock Exchange composite index declined 3.12 points, to 209.91, and the American Stock Exchange composite index fell 5.22 points, to 374.25.
In Nasdaq trading, the index was down 11.26, to 523.47 and the Russell 2,000, was off 4.10, to 177.55.
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trades, noted 12 in all yesterday. The combined impact lowered the Dow by 35.75 points, with buy programs at the end of the session adding 27.75 points, Birinyi said.
The unexpected drop on the London market surprised investors in the morning and set the tone for Wall Street yesterday, even through the London decline was attributed to worries that the Government of John Major would have to raise interest rates to keep the pound within its fixed trading range in the European Monetary System.
Paul J. Kronlokken, a technical analyst for Piper, Jaffray & Hopwood Inc., said the good news was that the Pacific Basin markets, which were mixed, with Tokyo off, were not a factor. "There seems to be continued carry-over from Friday's market, despite Monday's rally," he said, adding that Monday "was not all that good a day," since the advance was only in the large-capitalized stocks, with high liquidity and safety.
One source of market anxiety, Mr. Kronlokken said, was President Bush's remarks that the economy was basically sound and he planned no major new programs to stimulate growth.
Large mutual funds reported that telephone calls from customers yesterday were much heavier than normal, but in most cases no clear trend emerged from the calls.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); 

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (72%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (72%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE SECURITIES LAW (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ANN LIVERMORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



697 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
New York State's Bonds Plunge

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A sharp upward revision in the size of New York State's budget deficit for the current and coming fiscal years sent prices of the state's outstanding bond issues sharply lower yesterday.
The effect of the new figures helped to create a logjam in what had been expected to be a record week of new offerings in the tax-exempt municipal bond market. 
 Given woeful economic conditions, the fact that state officials raised the projected revenue shortfalls was not altogether surprising, analysts said. But the timing of the announcement, as well as the size of the new projections, came as a shock.
 
2 Issues Priced Last Week
 The state released its new deficit estimates a day before two debt issues priced last week, one for the Metropolitan Transit Authority, the other for New York State, were scheduled to be released to investors.
The new estimates show that the revenue shortfall could be twice the $1.8 billion projection made in July for the 1992-93 fiscal year.
The huge increase represented a material change in the outlook that had been presented to investors when the M.T.A. and New York State issues were priced last week, and created doubt about whether the securities would be released as scheduled.
"For anyone who follows the state's finances, this is not an entirely unexpected event," one municipal bond trader said. "But the problem is that the state is not as organized as it should be, and when something of this nature comes out between the sale of a new issue and when it is scheduled to close, it is an event."
 
Status of Offerings
 Telephone calls to Goldman, Sachs & Company seeking comment on the status of the M.T.A. deal were not returned. Goldman served as lead underwriter on the offering. An official at the New York State Comproller's office, who asked not to be identified, said the New York State issue would close as scheduled.
The revised numbers created a turmoil in the market for outstanding New York State bonds. Traders said prices of some bonds fell by as much as a point after the figures were released.
The news also had an effect on New York City, which was poised to price $1.2 billion in refunding bonds yesterday. Because of the uncertainty created by the revised budget projections, underwriters of the city issue decided to delay the pricing for at least 24 hours.
In all likelihood, the city's decision to postpone its offering will cause the New Jersey Turnpike Authority to put off pricing $1.6 billion in securities. The issue had been scheduled to be sold today.
 
Other Reverberations
 Besides the New York City offering, the University of California Board of Regents chose not to price more than $353 million worth of refunding bonds yesterday. California pulled the issue because it did not like the preliminary pricing on the securities.
"This is clearly one of the more confusing new-issue days I have ever seen," said Stephen C. Leslie, a senior vice president at M. R. Beal & Company. "It was a tough day."
Some $8 billion to $8.5 billion in tax-exempt bonds had been scheduled to be sold this week, but analysts said yesterday's developments created a logjam that might take several weeks to sort out.
It is unlikely that such a large volume of new securities would be offered during the rest of the week. And because of Thanksgiving, new issues that might otherwise have been priced next week will probably be delayed, the analysts said.
 
The Dow's Influence
 Stock prices, not New York State, was the primary influence on developments in the secondary market for Treasury securities yesterday.
Once again, the steep selloff in the equity market persuaded investors to buy short-term Treasury bills and notes. Bond prices fell however, and long-term interest rates moved higher.
"People are willing to sell bonds no matter what the news," one government securities trader said. "It seems like the money that went into bonds at the refunding auctions has come back out again."
By late in the day, the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 101, down by 7/8 point, to yield 7.91 percent.
Among note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 31/ 32 in late trading, down by 7/32, to yield 7.36 percent. And the 6 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 29/32, up by 2/32, to yield 5.50 percent.
 
Short-Term Rates Down
 Short-term Treasury bill rates moved lower.
In late trading, three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.52 percent, down by 4 basis points, or four one-hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by 5 basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.55 percent. And one-year bills were offered in late trading at 4.58 percent, down by 4 basis points.
Activity in the investment-grade corporate bond market was highlighted by a three-part, $450 million competitive offering of securities by the Public Service Electric and Gas Company.
Yields on the securities range from 7.185 percent on notes maturing on Nov. 1, 1997, to 8.79 percent on bonds that mature on Nov. 1, 2021.
The securities are rated A-2 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and A by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields on selected Treasury securities (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (94%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (91%); BOND ISSUES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (72%); CITIES (71%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (69%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



698 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Pricing Insurers Out of Business

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
TO most Americans, government-dictated prices have always seemed like a variation on the theme of "Yes, we have no bananas." Price controls guaranteed that everything for sale would be affordable, while assuring there would hardly be anything to buy.
But this time, argues Orin Kramer, the head of a Princeton, N.J., consulting firm and the author of a new study of auto and workers' compensation insurance for the Insurance Information Institute, the joke is on us. He contends that regulated rates are eroding the industry's capacity to pay out claims and are creating a crazy-quilt of subsidies in which low-risk consumers cover the expenses of high-risk consumers. Perhaps more important, he says, price controls are masking the core problem of accident insurance, delaying the day when policy makers tackle escalating legal and medical costs. 
 The obvious reason for regulating insurance is to guarantee that insurers deliver on their promises. To that end, most states set minimum standards for financial reserves and the provision of backup coverage for bankrupt insurers. But since the 1960's, Mr. Kramer writes, the emphasis has turned to containing premium inflation.
At first, regulators pushed for more competitive pricing, barring the cozy cartel arrangements that allowed insurers to conspire against "disruptive" competition. In the last decade, however, regulators and state legislatures have responded to rate inflation in auto and workers' compensation insurance (which account for half of all casualty insurance premiums) by wading into rate-setting waters.
In some cases they have capped rates informally, refusing to clear requested increases. In others, they have prohibited rate discrimination by sex, age or geography. And in California they have jumped in head first, setting a maximum allowable rate of return for insurers, much the way states regulate public utility monopolies. As of last count by the National Association of Independent Insurers, 21 states were considering California-style rate-of-return regulation.
Mr. Kramer calculates that in 1989, some $32 billion in auto and workers' compensation premiums -- 15 percent of total industry premiums -- were collected in states that kept rates below competitive levels. All told, he estimates, rate suppression deprived insurers of $9.5 billion in earnings in 1987 through 1989, with the lion's share ($7.3 billion) coming on workers' compensation policies. These figures do not count the effects of the big rollback in California's auto insurance rates, which only began in 1990.
Insurers (who paid for Mr. Kramer's analysis) obviously worry about rate suppression. But why should anyone else?
Mr. Kramer focuses on solvency questions. An insurer who wrote nothing but workers' compensation policies in rate suppression states would eat through its capital reserves in five years, he estimates. Of course, few companies issue just workers' compensation policies and fewer still issue them only in rate suppression states. But Mr. Kramer sees evidence that rate caps have contributed to insolvencies and expects that hostile regulation will become a significant factor in insurance failures in the next few years.
Such arguments are not likely to impress drivers who have watched their premiums double or triple in the last decade in spite of more aggressive regulation. Indeed, many would no doubt hoist a glass at the prospect of their unfriendly neighborhood insurance company biting the dust -- as long as someone covered their claims. But Mr. Kramer thinks that rate suppression is already taking a direct toll on consumers, and it is bound to increase.
Price controls, he notes, have led to enormous growth in the percentage of customers insurers will not voluntarily insure. In New Jersey and Massachusetts, for example, half the drivers were relegated to this "residual market" in 1987. They were still able to buy coverage. But by tossing so high a proportion of customers into the pool, competitive pressures that linked rates for classes of policyholders to expected claims ceased to matter. Relatively good drivers were thus forced to subsidize relatively bad ones.
The deeper problem here is that attention has been diverted from the real sources of insurance cost inflation. For believe it or not, insurers are not making a big buck: the average return to their stockholders' capital in the 1980's was well below profit rates for American industry as a whole.
The keys to accident insurance woes, Mr. Kramer says (and the numbers corroborate), are the rapidly rising costs of hospital care and the explosion in litigation. No matter how much policy makers bob and weave, no matter how clever they become at squeezing insurers, the cost problem will not go away until it is attacked at the core.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CARTELS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (76%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION COSTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); WRITERS (71%); LITIGATION (68%); DISCRIMINATION (63%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; KRAMER, ORIN S CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



699 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Maxwell Loan Investigated; Company Shares Hit Hard

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: LONDON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
A British Government agency, the Serious Fraud Office, said today that it was investigating a loan to a company that had been part of Robert Maxwell's holdings. In response to that news and a negative credit development, Maxwell Communication's shares lost nearly a quarter of their value and dragged down banking stock prices as well.
The inquiry by the fraud office came in response to a complaint made to the police by the Swiss Bank Corporation concerning a 55 million ($99 million) loan it had made to Adviser 188, which is controlled by a private Maxwell company, Headington Investments Ltd. 
 The Financial Times, which disclosed the inquiry today, quoted an unidentified banker as saying that collateral was deficient on the loan. Some analysts said the same assets might have been used as collateral for more than one loan.
Separately, the British credit rating agency IBCA Ltd. said it had placed Maxwell Communication on credit watch because of potential disruptions to the media company's bank credit. The move means IBCA is reviewing the company's soundness and could possibly lower its rating, which would make it more expensive for Maxwell Communication to borrow money.
 
Problem for Sons
 Inasmuch as Mr. Maxwell had pledged stock in his publicly held companies as collateral against private loans, the drop in the value of the stock raised questions about whether the British publisher's sons could hold his empire together.
That empire includes an array of holdings in Europe and the United States, ranging from scholastic book publishing companies to tabloid newspapers, including The Daily News in New York and The Daily Mirror in Britain.
Declines in Maxwell Communication's stock price, and thus the value of the collateral, could prompt bankers to require the Maxwell family to put up more collateral or repay its loans.
Kevin Maxwell, one of Robert Maxwell's sons and chairman of Maxwell Communication, has said banks have pledged their support, and he has accelerated the sale of assets to pay debts. He has also defended the use of stock as loan collateral as a "perfectly standard method of borrowing."
Still, analysts were bearish.
"It's very bad news," Valerie Conner, an analyst with the London investment firm Henderson Crosthwaite & Company, said about the stock drop. "The banks are in a very delicate position because they won't want to act too precipitously."
 
Drop in Share Value
 Maxwell Communication's shares sank 14 pence, or 25 cents, to close at 46 pence, or 83 cents, on the London Stock Exchange today. The shares have fallen 62 percent since Mr. Maxwell died on Nov. 5 during a stay on his yacht. His body was recovered in waters off the Canary Islands.
Shares in the other major Maxwell company, Mirror Group Newspapers P.L.C., fell 3 pence, or 5 cents, to close at 114 pence, or $2.05.
As a result of the weakness in Maxwell Communication's share price, National Westminster Bank P.L.C., Maxwell's lead bank, was off 8 pence, or 14 cents, at 305 pence, or $5.49, at the close of trading.
Derek Brock, an analyst with the Nomura Research Institute, said, "Clearly, the more pressure there is on the Maxwell family, the more pressure there's going to be to sell assets."
Although analysts say the family has not provided them with enough information about its loans to know for sure, a drop in Maxwell Communication's share price to below 50 pence, or 90 cents, was believed to be the trigger point for banks to take protective action.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (69%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: MAXWELL COMMUNICATIONS CORP; HEADINGTON INVESTMENTS LTD; IBCA LTD FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (70%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAXWELL COMMUNICATIONS CORP; HEADINGTON INVESTMENTS LTD; IBCA LTD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (69%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; STOCKS (CORPORATE); RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); BOOK PUBLISHING (65%); 

PERSON: MAXWELL, ROBERT ROBERT IAN CHARLES MAXWELL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



700 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Federated Stock: Dispute on Value

BYLINE: By Eben Shapiro

 BODY:
IN these bleak times for traditional department stores, a large stock offering by such a retailer is unlikely to set off a stampede of investors. But early next year, some investors are likely to receive 80.6 million new shares in the company that owns Abraham & Straus, Rich's and Bloomingdale's. They do not have any choice.
These reluctant shareholders are the creditors of the Federated and Allied department store chains, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in January 1990 after their costly acquisition by the Campeau Corporation. 
 The Cincinnati-based retailers plan to emerge from bankruptcy in February as a single entity. Much of their debt will be paid in the form of new stock issued to creditors.
The banks and bondholders will receive shares in a new company, Federated Department Stores Inc. The company will have no connection to the Campeau Corporation, and its shares will be traded over the counter.
In anticipation of the issuance of the shares, a dispute has begun over the proposed value of Federated's shares.
Federated's investment bankers, Shearson Lehman Brothers, say the stock is worth $25 a share. That valuation is disputed by some creditors and bond analysts, who put it closer to $15 to $17.
Barbara Wedelstaedt, a bond analyst with Duff & Phelps in Chicago, said the company's projections were too aggressive. "We just don't think that the levels of profitability are as high as the projections the company has put together."
Even as the economy improves, she said, retailers will face a crowded, competitive arena, which will mandate lower profits than those outlined by Federated's management. "These companies will not be able to achieve the same gross margins that were achieved in the 80's," she said.
She added that turnarounds were hard to accomplish in a retail operation. She values the stock at $17 a share.
Federated's advisers stand by their valuation, but acknowledge that the stock may trade at a price below $25 when it is issued next year.
Creditors are now voting on whether to accept Federated's plan. Most creditors and analysts expect the plan to be accepted by creditors and approved by Judge J. Vincent Aug Jr. of United States Bankruptcy Court in Cincinnati, allowing the company to emerge from bankruptcy early next year.
In addition to analyzing the restructured company's business prospects, Joe Amato, director of high-yield research at Kidder, Peabody, is considering technical stock-trading issues. When issued, some of the shares will carry restrictions to prevent them from being sold for a certain time on the open market.
"Supply and demand is important, and it will be a big issue the first couple of months," Mr. Amoto said. He said that the firm was still analyzing the situation but that the selling restriction was likely to depress the stock price temporarily.
Investors are exploring different possible approaches. One investment banker said he had considered buying Federated and Allied bonds as a "cheap way to get the stock." But upon closer examination, he said, the stock did not look like a bargain, "and we just passed."
Federated has gotten high marks for keeping its reorganization moving briskly along. Its management has used the bankruptcy court's protection to make a host of sorely needed changes to improve efficiency, escaping from leases and closing 40 unprofitable stores. The company has also consolidated, centralizing its buying, data processing and credit card operation. It also merged its Maas Brothers/Jordan Marsh division into the Burdines division.
When it emerges from bankruptcy, the company expects to have 225 stores in 26 states, with sales of about $7 billion.
When Federated and Allied filed for bankruptcy protection nearly two years ago, the two operations owed $8.7 billion to more than 40,000 creditors.
Analysts are mixed on what the future holds for the group of department stores. Allen I. Questrom, chairman and chief executive of Federated and Allied, is considered a top retailing executive, but he faces well-financed competition and a weak economy.
George Ashur, director of corporate bond research for Chase Securities, said traditional merchants like Federated would have a difficult time competing against retailers like the Limited and the Gap. "I use 'traditional management' in a pejorative sense," he said. "The norm has changed so much."
Edward Weller, a retailing analyst at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco, said the company had a powerful presence in markets like Atlanta, with Rich's, and in Florida, with Burdines. He said the stores were not in bad shape before the costly buyout. "The problem was the financial structure of the company, not the quality of the business," Mr. Weller added.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (92%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (72%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CAMPEAU CORP; ALLIED STORES CORP; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC; SHEARSON LEHMAN BROTHERS INC MACY'S INC (92%); CAMPEAU CORP (91%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CAMPEAU CORP; ALLIED STORES CORP; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC; SHEARSON LEHMAN BROTHERS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); OHIO, USA (72%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; STOCKS (CORPORATE); BANKRUPTCIES RETAILERS (95%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); NEW ISSUES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); STOCK OFFERINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (63%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



701 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
BellSouth Wins Bid For Australia Service

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
The BellSouth Corporation, the regional Bell company based in Atlanta, said yesterday that it was part of a three-nation consortium that won the right to provide telecommunications services in Australia.
BellSouth said the group, which includes Cable and Wireless P.L.C. of Britain, bid the equivalent of $640 million. 
 The venture, known as Optus Communications, will compete against the Government-owned entities, Telecom Australia, which provides local service, and OTC, which provides long-distance service.
BellSouth and Cable each own 24.5 percent of the venture. BellSouth's share of the purchase price is about $157 million. BellSouth will offer expertise on cellular telephones and Cable and Wireless on international long distance. They will jointly operate domestic long-distance service.
Optus's majority holders are Australians, as mandated by law. They are Mayne Nickless, a transportation and health services company; the Australian Mutual Provident Society and National Mutual, two life insurance companies, and AIDC Ltd. Telecommunications Fund, a mutual fund.
Like other Bell companies, BellSouth has tried to cope with slow-growing domestic markets by searching for opportunities abroad. Though Australia is in a deep recession, BellSouth is betting that the economy will revive and prosper. Australia's gross domestic product per capita is about $18,000 a year, compared with about $22,000 in the United States. Australia's distance from other countries could also increase long-distance calling.
Optus plans to spend $3.1 billion over the next five years to modernize Australia's telephone network with fiber-optic cables. BellSouth said it would contribute $300 million of its own money over the next four years and that the contribution will hurt earnings by 4 cents a share in 1992 and 7 cents a share in 1993. BellSouth earned $1.63 billion, or $3.38 a share, on revenues of $14.3 billion in 1990.
On the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, BellSouth shares lost 62.5 cents each, closing at $46.875.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CW (LSE) (92%); AMP (NZX) (56%); AMP (ASX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (84%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (84%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: BELLSOUTH CORP; CABLE AND WIRELESS PLC AT&T SOUTHEAST (96%); OPTUS COMMUNICATIONS PTY LTD (92%); CABLE & WIRELESS WORLDWIDE PLC (84%); AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL PROVIDENT SOCIETY (69%); AIDC LTD (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELLSOUTH CORP; CABLE AND WIRELESS PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;AUSTRALIA AUSTRALIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COMMUNICATIONS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); FIBER OPTICS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); RECESSION (72%); INSURANCE (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); MUTUAL FUNDS (67%); LIFE INSURANCE (53%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



702 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

MARKETS
Stocks dropped steadily, until late buy orders trimmed the losses. The Dow Jones industrial average, down as much as 78 points at one stage, closed off 41.15 points at 2,931.57. The decline followed a tumble in the London market. [D1.]
Credit markets were roiled by a sharp upward revision in the size of New York State's budget deficit. It sent prices of the state's outstanding bond issues down sharply, and created a logjam in new municipal offerings. New York City delayed an issue. [D16.]
Yields on certificates of deposit dropped in the last week, with some below 4 percent. [D7.]
The dollar tumbled against most major currencies, as traders responded to the slide in stock prices. [D18.]
Precious metal futures rallied, with gold for December delivery up $2.90 a troy ounce to settle at $364.40 on the Comex. [D18.]
 
THE ECONOMY
A streamlined banking bill was reported out of the House Banking Committee, as President Bush lobbied the Senate for passage of broader banking legislation. The House measure would provide billions of dollars in taxpayer loans to insure bank deposits. [D1.]
The merchandise trade deficit widened to $6.79 billion in September, the biggest in eight months, the Commerce Department said. That was 4 percent above August's revised $6.53 billion. [D2.]
The oil industry will face costs of $15 billion to $23 billion a year by the late 1990's, as a result of new Federal regulations meant to reduce air pollution, oil spills and contamination of underground water supplies, the American Petroleum Institute predicted. [D2.]
 
COMPANIES
A $1 billion Government computer contract, one of the richest ever, has gone to two small companies, Compuadd of Austin, Tex., and Sysorex Information Systems of Falls Church, Va. [D1.]
McDonnell Douglas announced a preliminary agreement to sell 40 percent of its commercial aircraft to Taiwan Aerospace for $2 billion. [D1.]
Cray Research introduced its most powerful supercomputer yet. It can compute at four times the speed of the company's most powerful present systems. [D6.]
A loan to one of the late Robert Maxwell's companies, is under investigation by Britain's Serious Fraud Office. That news and a negative credit development depressed shares of both Maxwell Communication and Maxwell's banking creditors. [D4.]
British Airways is negotiating a takeover of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, a Dutch transport workers union said. [D4.]
BellSouth said it won Australian rights for telecommunications services. It was part of a three-nation consortium that includes Cable and Wireless of Britain. The group bid $640 million. [D4.]
 
TECHNOLOGY
M.I.T. and private industry are in partnership to put traffic-management theories to work for America's 135 million cars. Congress is paying for highway-automation research. [D1.]
Comnetix Computer Systems of Canada has given police on-screen mug shots that match a suspect's description. [D9.]
 
TODAY'S COLUMNS
Insurance price controls are masking the core problem of rising accident insurance costs, delaying action by policy makers, a Princeton consultant argues. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Creditors of the bankrupt companies that own A.&S., Rich's and Bloomingdale's will get 80.6 million shares in a new Federated Department Stores. The value is disputed. Market Place. [D10.]
Whittle Communications is said to be considering introducing an elementary school version of Channel One, its controversial advertising-supported daily news program for high schools. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D22.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: AF (PAR) (51%); AF (AMS) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SYSOREX INFORMATION SYSTEMS INC (53%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (51%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (51%); COMNETIX INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); TAIWAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS METALS MARKETS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (86%); AIRLINES (85%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (79%); GOLD MARKETS (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); BONDS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); BOND ISSUES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (75%); BANKING LAW (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); OIL SPILLS (65%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); WATER POLLUTION (64%); AIR POLLUTION (64%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (62%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (61%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



703 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: CUOMO AIDES SEE DOUBLING OF GAP IN ALBANY BUDGET

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's budget office said today that the gap in the coming state budget may rise to $3.6 billion, double its previous estimate, or more than 10 percent of total projected spending.
Officials said they based the new figure on forecasts that the state and national economies would take still another turn for the worse, depressing tax collections and increasing spending on social services. 
 The news set off a tremor on an already jittery Wall Street, where the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was forced to postpone a planned closing on $440 million in bond sales. It acted after investors, citing uncertainty over the state's finances brought on by the announcement, pulled back from the deal.
 
'Bad Mood' of Investors
 The New York City government also put off for at least one day a $1.2 billion bond sale that it had been hailing as a sign of good economic news. The sale involves a refinancing of old bonds that was expected to save the city at least $100 million in borrowing costs.
Technically, the financing of the city bonds had nothing to do with state budget conditions, but one city official said the "bad mood" among investors who learned the state's budget news led the city to conclude that a brief delay might allow it to hold down the yield it would have to pay buyers of the bonds. Such a move may only change the yield by a fraction of a percentage point, but that can represent millions of dollars over the life of the bonds.
 
The Presidential Question
 At the state level, Mr. Cuomo's Presidential aspirations could hinge on a successful budget plan, or at least general agreement on an approach to the problem. Earlier this week he said he would stay out of the Presidential race if he and the Legislature could not agree soon on a "solution" to the state's persistent fiscal problems.
The M.T.A. and city moves were a stark reflection not only of the severity of the state's budget news but also of how such news can affect the psychology of the bond markets that the state, the city and a host of public agencies rely on to stay afloat financially.
The State Budget Director, Patrick J. Bulgaro, said tonight that he could not give a precise estimate of the gap. But in assessing the state's fiscal prospects that the state was required to issue as part of the authority's bond sale, he said the $1.8 billion gap projected several months ago "will increase and, based on the most recent information, could double."
The state is already facing a gap of at least $689 million in its current $29 billion budget, and Mr. Cuomo has warned that this could go higher.
At a news conference here this evening, Mr. Cuomo sought to play down the impact of the state's budget announcement on the M.T.A.'s and the city's problems with bond sales.
 
'Not Surprised'
 Citing the glut of municipal bonds on the market now and the recent stock market downturn, with the Dow Jones industrial average declining 41.15 points today, he said, "Now all of these factors come together and investors say: 'Wait a minute, what does this mean for the bonds? Do the interest rates go up, down?' So I'm not surprised that earlier today they should have said, 'Whoa, boy, let's put everything on hold.' "
Mr. Cuomo did seize on the worsening state budget problems as all the greater reason for legislative leaders to agree on a multiyear budget that he said could begin to attack the deficit problems now rather than on April 1, when the 1992-93 fiscal year is to begin.
The Governor has repeatedly warned in recent days that sluggish retail sales for the holiday season could further drive down tax collections.
Several analysts said it was impossible to know whether today's problems in the credit markets, which were unusual although not unprecedented, were a harbinger of even worse difficulties for the state and the city in arranging financing.
They said the situation clearly amounted to a warning shot, but, just as there is little agreement on whether the stock market slump will continue, there is no consensus on whether investors will pull away from city or state bonds in the long term.
And none of the analysts were projecting at this point that the problems signaled any severe shift, like a full-scale closing of the credit markets to New York's public agencies, which was the condition that provoked New York City's fiscal crisis in the mid-1970's. Among other things, there are a host of safeguards now that were not in place at that time to insure that public bonds will be paid off.
City Comptroller Elizabeth Holtzman said New York City decided to hold off on its bond sale, which it now hopes to offer on Wednesday, only because "it was clear the market conditions were not optimal, and we like to market our bonds in the best possible circumstances."
While the city looked to delay as a strategy to drive down the interest it must pay on the bonds, the reverse was true for the Transportation Authority, which had planned to close on the sale of an issue of bonds that would have carried a maximum of 7.13 percent interest in their 30-year life, said an authority spokesman, John Cunningham.
The delay could drive up the interest rate, although Mr. Cuomo said tonight that he believed the sale would come on Wednesday.
Analysts at two major credit rating agencies, Moody's and Standard & Poor's, said they were not particularly surprised by the state budget announcement today because they had been in touch with the budget office and were aware it would increase.
But, said George W. Leung, managing director at Moody's, "This development just heightens the need for real reform in containing the budget busters," which he cited as Medicaid, corrections and welfare spending.


GRAPHIC: Current budget situations in the region. (New Jersey is not currently anticipating a deficit.)
 
ESTIMATED DEFICIT
Chart: "Balance Sheet: The Fiscal Picture Darkens"
 Connecticut: $1.75 million for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1992.
 New York State: At least $689 million for the fiscal year ending March 31, 1992, and an estimated $2 billion to $3.6 billion for the following fiscal year.
 New York City: $210 million for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1992, and an estimated $1.2 billion for the following fiscal year.
 
SOME OF THE REASONS:
 
Connecticut
 
* $38 million shortfall in tax receipts on corporate profits.
* $63 million shortfall in sales tax.
* $74 million shortfall in captial gains tax.
 
New York State
 
This year:
 
* $349 million in revenue shortfall, $311 million of it from lower-than-anticipated personal income taxes.
* $327 million in additional spending, including $232 million from higher-than-anticipated Medicaid spending.
 Next year's anticipated deficit assumes a continuation of current economic patterns.
 
New York City
 
This year:
 
* $50 million shortfall in sales tax receipts.
* $51 million in unanticipated education spending.
* $14 million in service restorations. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (57%); MEDICAID (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) MEDICAID (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (95%); BONDS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); CITIES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



704 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: 8 Soviet Republics Said to Agree To Take On Entire Foreign Debt

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Eight of the remaining 12 Soviet republics reportedly agreed today that they would shoulder the entire foreign debt of the Soviet Union if necessary to bolster the fractured nation's credibility in the eyes of industrialized countries whose help is considered vital to a rescue of its economy.
In response, officials of the seven leading industrial nations were reported ready to move ahead with a plan to ease debt repayment terms over the next year and provide some relief to the failing Soviet economy. 
 Before considering the extension of new credit and aid with the approach of winter hardships, wealthy nations have been demanding such reassurances that past Soviet debts will be repaid.
 
Meeting With Wealthy Nations
 The republics' agreement was reported by a participant at a critical meeting between officials of the now-sovereign republics and ministers of the Group of Seven wealthy industrial countries.
The ministers -- representing the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, Germany and Japan -- are here to offer advice and badly needed aid conditioned on evidence of common resolve by the republics to deal with the chaos of the post-Communist economy.
With four republics balking, the others at the meeting "took on themselves the entire external debt," Prime Minister Vyacheslav F. Kebich of Byelorussia told correspondents during a break in difficult private discussions over how to reconstruct the economy.
The Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Georgia were reportedly skeptical about immediately signing a memorandum committing them to share in the Soviet debt of about $80 billion owed to Western governments and banks. Those that agreed to take responsibility are the Russian, Byelorussian, Moldavian, Armenian, Turkmen, Tadzhik, Kazakh and Kirghiz republics.
 
Baltic Lands Independent

Three of the 15 Soviet republics -- the Baltic states of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia -- have received international recognition as independent nations in the aftermath of the failed coup by hard-liners in August. They are pursuing the debt issue separately as they attempt to create their own place in the global market economy.
The republics balking over the debt left the discussions when the Group of Seven ministers began disclosing details of their aid proposals, which were not immediately made public.
One participant, the Moldavian Prime Minister, Valeriu Muravsky, said a one-year moratorium on interest payments worth about $5 billion plus a bridge loan of $1 billion were included in the Group of Seven's proposals.
 
Deferral of Payments
 But firm details and any final agreement were not expected until the conference resumes Wednesday. Going into the meeting, the understanding in Washington was that the Group of Seven officials had advanced a package that involved a deferral of payments through the winter on principal, not interest; such a deferral could save the Soviet Union $1 billion.
In addition, the officials were prepared to offer a "bridge loan," with Soviet gold reserves as collateral, from the Bank of International Settlements, a clearing house for Western central banks based in Basel, Switzerland. The size of the proposed loan was uncertain.
The negotiations were "extremely slow," said David C. Mulford, the United States Treasury Under Secretary for International Affairs. "But there has been some progress," he added.
The balking republics did not flatly refuse to share in the debt eventually. But they demanded detailed assurances that there would be a fair apportionment of in the Soviet debt as well as its assets.
The Ukraine, currently the most assertively independent of the republics, termed the debt memorandum a "promissory note with no amount indicated," in the words of its Prime Minister, Vitold Fokin.
 
'We Need Clarity'
 "We need clarity, we demand nothing more," he said, terming the debt-pledge memorandum a "card trick" and a work of "mass hypnosis."
But the other republics, sensing urgency in the aid visit by the Group of Seven delegation, agreed to step forward and assume an extra share of the common debt, if necessary, according to Prime Minister Kebich of Byelorussia.
Soviet currency reserves have dwindled rapidly in parallel with the old union government's authority, leaving the surviving republics facing the risks of defaulting on the Soviet foreign debt at a critical moment when they must assure fresh credit to build for the future.
 
Convertible Ruble Is Goal
 Participants said there was a good chance some of the four balking republics would join the agreement in the next few weeks once details of the debt sharing have been worked out and the prospects for future outside help improve.
While the creditor nations -- principally Germany and France -- want a common commitment, Uzbekistan officials said they would prefer to pay their share individually to avoid having to bolster weaker republics with less ability to pay a share.
The Group of Seven meeting is focusing on the debt problem that underlies hopes to create a viable new economic community from most of the former Communist republics. As planned in an earlier treaty commitment, this association would have a full range of market freedoms and aim for making the ruble convertible and the community a full participant in the world market.
Each republic is free to enact its own free-market innovations. Thus far Russian republic President Boris N. Yeltsin is attempting to set the pace with a pending series of sweeping changes, including the first steps toward making the ruble convertible.
Mr. Yeltsin proposes to begin by ending next year the current false government valuations of the ruble's worth as well as the enforced exchange rates for foreign currencies. He would let the ruble's value float in a newly freed market in which prices would no longer be government-subsidized.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As officials of the Soviet republics and representatives of the seven leading industrial nations worked on an emergency aid plan, scavengers yesterday combed through a garbage dump 27 miles form Moscow. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AZERBAIJAN (92%); GEORGIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); UKRAINE (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LATVIA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; UKRAINE; UZBEKISTAN (USSR); AZERBAIJAN (USSR); GEORGIA (USSR) AZERBAIJAN (92%); GEORGIA (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); UKRAINE (92%); BALTIC STATES (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CANADA (79%); FRANCE (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); ESTONIA (79%); LITHUANIA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (79%); LATVIA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EXTERNAL DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); COUPS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINES, FRANCIS X

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



705 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Delay in Bush Re-election Bid Sets Off White House Tussle

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENTHAL, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Despite nudging from fellow Republicans, President Bush still has not named his re-election team, and the delay is feeding a vitriolic struggle for control of the campaign as well as a new round of backstage attacks on John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff.
Mr. Bush's inaction in the face of steadily bad economic news has underscored the absence of the strong team that guided his 1988 campaign, as well as the growing problem of building a team around Mr. Sununu, whose brusque style has alienated much of the Cabinet, many of the President's political associates and even members of Mr. Bush's family.
 
Two Advisers Concerned
 Mr. Sununu has heightened the political tension by spreading the word that he will run the 1992 campaign from the White House, alarming Robert M. Teeter and Fred Malek, two close advisers who expect to be named co-managers of the re-election campaign, Republican strategists and Administration officials say. 
 So far the President has not called either Mr. Malek or Mr. Teeter to offer them campaign jobs, and both are said to be increasingly edgy about taking on major roles in an organization dominated by Mr. Sununu.
Republican strategists differ on how fast Mr. Bush should move to begin his 1992 campaign, with some saying he has plenty of time to organize his drive.
But one point of agreement is that there is no one around the President now who can confront him with unwelcome news and force action if, as some Republicans fear, he is sustaining political damage on a daily basis from the troubled economy and Democratic attacks on his domestic policies.
Those urging a quick decision on the 1992 campaign note that it does not have available the seasoned talent of 1988. Mr. Bush's closest friend, Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d, is involved in diplomatic missions that keep him abroad much of the time. And Mr. Bush's 1988 tactician, Lee Atwater, died this year.
White House advisers said most of the President's close friends and advisers had tried to confront him about Mr. Sununu. Mr. Bush's children have taken to derisively calling the chief of staff "Governor Nunu" and even Barbara Bush, who once defended the former New Hampshire Governor, has soured on him, Republican advisers said.
But without responding directly, Mr. Bush has turned aside their criticism and suggestions that Mr. Sununu, who declined to be interviewed, be eased out. And the President does not appear to have tipped his hand to anyone.
 
Some Reasons for Waiting
 Mr. Bush has also not made clear to anyone who is willing to talk to reporters what he is thinking about the schedule for organizing his campaign staff. Associates point out that he is a seasoned political hand with a strong campaign record and that there are practical reasons for waiting before starting a formal campaign organization, including rules about paying for Presidential travel, which will become far more complicated once Mr. Bush is a declared candidate.
Republican strategists' concerns about the slow pace in forming the Bush re-election campaign have been heightened in recent days by the steady erosion of the President's political footing in the face of bad economic news, Democratic attacks and, most recently, open criticism from members of the Republican right who mistrust his commitment to conservative causes.
Some of Mr. Bush's advisers say the widely expected entry of Patrick J. Buchanan, a conservative commentator and an outspoken critic of Mr. Bush, into New Hampshire's primary in February, the first in the nation, makes it even more urgent to name a campaign team.
They insist that Mr. Buchanan is not a real threat, but his presence in the New Hampshire primary could make it more important than ever for Mr. Bush to retain Mr. Sununu, who still has considerable influence in that state.
At a White House meeting last week some officials suggested that Mr. Bush announce his campaign team in December, instead of waiting until January as had been planned. Mr. Bush has already started raising money for the 1992 campaign, even though he has not announced his candidacy. In about two weeks recently he raised more than $4 million.
 
A Man for All Troubles
 So far, however, the President has not heeded the advice, and many Bush advisers say they now fear he could get his re-election drive off to a halting start by waiting too long to put his campaign operation in motion.
Mr. Sununu has faced political heat before, during the 1990 budget negotiations, for example, and earlier this year over his use of military aircraft for personal and political travel. Each time, criticism has risen from other members of the Bush circle who would like to dislodge Mr. Sununu as chief of staff.
In recent weeks Mr. Sununu has been blamed for virtually all of the President's political troubles: the cancellation of a trip to the Far East, a poorly planned proposal for reducing credit card interest rates, the fight over Federal financing of abortion counseling, the difficulty in getting a compromise on civil rights legislation and the slow pace of the campaign itself.
 
Standing by His Aide
 Each time Mr. Sununu has had trouble, however, Mr. Bush stood by his chief of staff, leading enemies of Mr. Sununu who also admire Mr. Bush to conclude that the President must have a strong reason for not acting. The only other explanation is that he does not disapprove of his aide's behavior.
This time there are two popular theories circulating here to explain the President's apparent support of Mr. Sununu.
One is that Mr. Bush is waiting to see if Senator Warren B. Rudman, Republican of New Hampshire, chooses to run again next year. If not Mr. Sununu might, thereby removing him from the White House gracefully.
But a senior Republican strategist said he did not believe Mr. Sununu would leave his job "regardless of what Rudman does." He dismissed the anxiety over Mr. Bush's inaction on the campaign as "worrying by people in the second tier who are anxious to get things done and believe that somehow, if there were a campaign structure and daily meetings, that things would be happening differently about economic policy or anything else."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert M. Teeter, left, and Fred Malek, two close advisers to President Bush, expect to be named co-managers of his re-election bid. (Photographs by Paul Conklin) (pg. A25)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY IF AS (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); ROSENTHAL, ANDREW; SUNUNU, JOHN H; TEETER, ROBERT M; MALEK, FRED GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN SUNUNU (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



706 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
CLASHING ARGUMENTS AT KAHANE TRIAL
Rabbi Meir Kahane was assassinated not by the Egyptian-born Muslim immigrant on trial, but by someone within his own militant anti-Arab movement, a defense lawyer suggested in his opening statement. But prosecutors argued that in a bloody spree in a public area, the defendant, El Sayyid A. Nosair, left "one man dead, two wounded and many others shaken up." Page B3.
 

 FIRE AT THE WORLD TRADE CENTER
A smoky fire in an electrical shaft on the 93d floor of One World Trade Center forced the evacuation of several floors and injured two people, officials said, but it failed to disturb the routine of many in the tower. Page B3.
 
 TOUGH PRINCIPAL TALKS TOUGH
The principal who brought law and order to rough-and-tumble Boys and Girls High School in Brooklyn says he is thinking of leaving the school system because it has not offered him a top policy-making position. The principal, Frank Mickens, suggested that his race and sex -- he is black -- might be responsible for his failure to earn a promotion. Page B3.
 
 SECURITY GUARD CHARGED IN KILLING
A security guard who was working for an unlicensed agency that hires former gang members and some former convicts has been charged with killing a teen-ager at a South Bronx shopping plaza. Page B3.
 
 Investor testifies he was satisfied with Miller's legal work. Page B2.
 
REGION
 
 NEW ALARM ON THE BUDGET
Governor Cuomo's budget office said the gap in the coming New York State budget might rise to $3.6 billion, double its previous estimate and more than 10 percent of the spending in the total projected budget. The news set off a tremor on an already jittery Wall Street, where the Metropolitan Transportation Authority was forced to postpone a planned closing on $440 million in bond sales. Page A1.
 
 FLORIO GOES A-COURTING
Stung and rejected by an electorate he feels neither knows nor understands him, Governor Florio is planning an ardent courtship over the airwaves and in public meetings to win back the affection of the voters. Page B6.
 
 SPORTS BETTING IN NEW JERSEY?
New Jersey's multibillion-dollar gambling industry says that like the rest of the economy, it is ailing, and it wants to expand its base by legalizing sports betting. The proposal has raised tempers as well as interest. Page B6.
 
 JERSEY CITY MAYOR'S DAY IN COURT
As he went on trial, Mayor Gerald McCann of Jersey City heard himself portrayed alternately as a swindler and as a businessman who had a disagreement with his partners over how he was to be paid. Page B6.
 
 LEGISLATIVE SCRAMBLE IN HARTFORD
Angry Connecticut lawmakers scrambled to deal with the realization that Governor Weicker's disclosure of a new budget deficit may have derailed the process that was to lead to a vote on repealing the new income tax. Page B6.
 
 Cornell students protest an advertisement denying the reality of the Holocaust. Page B6.
 
About New York B2
 
Education B8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (87%); LAWYERS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BONDS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); BUDGET FORECASTS (69%); MAYORS (69%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); GAMING (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (62%); 

PERSON: MEIR KAHANE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



707 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: 2 Senators Seek to Revive Plan to Divert Pentagon Funds to Soviets

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 19

 BODY:
In an effort to break a political impasse, two senior Senators said today that they had agreed to urge bipartisan revival of a plan to use up to $1 billion from the defense budget to aid the Soviet Union.
"Let's take the pledge" to avoid injecting the issue into the 1992 campaign, David L. Boren, an Oklahoma Democrat and a senior member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, said in outlining the initiative. "It matters too much for any of us to take cheap shots and make it a campaign issue." 
 Mr. Boren's main partner in this new effort for a truce that would clear the way for Soviet aid is Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the committee's ranking Republican.
The earlier effort, sponsored by Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and Representative Les Aspin of Wisconsin, died a week ago after the White House failed to endorse it amid mounting charges that it was being overly attentive to foreign affairs. There was particularly strenuous opposition to a provision that would have helped retrain Soviet officers at a time when the American economy is struggling to shake off recession.
Mr. Nunn and Mr. Aspin are both Democrats.
The Senators did not provide any details today of how a new plan would differ from the old one; it was understood that they would meet over breakfast on Wednesday with Mr. Nunn, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., Senator John W. Warner and others to plot further strategy. Mr. Biden is a Democrat from Delaware, Mr. Warner a Republican from Virginia.
A White House representative may also attend. A Senate official said he understood that Brent Scowcroft, the national security adviser, had expressed willingness to take part in the effort if a political truce could be arranged.
Democratic leaders had said of the earlier proposal that without a public expression of support by the White House they would drop it rather than suffer political repercussions alone.
The original plan, advanced within days of the failed August coup attempt, called for transferring as much as $1 billion of the military budget into humanitarian aid to the Soviet Union. A primary aim was to help insure stability as central authority was eclipsed in the country, which has more than 30,000 nuclear weapons.
As part of the plan, Air Force planes would transport food and medical supplies this winter, American companies would be given incentives to invest in converted Soviet military enterprises and there would be a joint effort by the two countries to destroy Soviet nuclear and chemical weapons.
In a related development, Marlin Fitzwater, the chief White House spokesman, said today that the Administration would act within days on a much-delayed plan to send about $1.5 billion worth of food to the Soviet Union.
The White House has repeatedly delayed offering such a package since Agriculture Secretary Edward Madigan promised in late October that one would be drawn up within two weeks. This, too, has been a sensitive political subject, drawing, among other fire, the accusation by some farm state Democrats that the Administration has misrepresented the true size of an aid request made last month by President Mikhail S. Gorbachev.
 
Envoy Expresses Concern
 The White House announcement may have been hastened by concern expressed on Monday by Robert S. Strauss, the American Ambassador in Moscow, about mounting opposition in this country to aiding the Soviet Union. Mr. Strauss, a longtime friend and an appointee of President Bush, is a Democrat; he may have provided some impetus to the revival of the Nunn-Aspin proposal as well as to fashioning the current aid package.
The main element of the food aid package is some $1.25 billion in guarantees of bank loans that the Soviets would use to buy American grain. The United States previously gave the Soviet Union $1 billion worth of loan guarantees last December and $1.5 billion of guarantees in June; the last of this grain is to be shipped at the end of this month.
Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, promptly assailed the Administration plan to use credit guarantees for long-term food aid.
"By giving piecemeal foreign aid to the Soviets under the guise of agricultural credit guarantees, the Administration is playing a deceptive game with American taxpayers," who bear the ultimate risk of default, Mr. Leahy said. He called for greater coordination with Europe and Japan, with these countries paying "substantially more."
As for the Boren-Lugar initiative, the Senators' hope is to have President Bush convene a Congressional group to produce a deal by early next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA (58%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA (58%); INDIANA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TRENDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); COUPS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); ARMED FORCES (61%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (61%); 

PERSON: LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN); BOREN, DAVID L (SEN); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ; HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR DAN BOREN (79%); DICK LUGAR (74%); JOHN WARNER (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



708 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Debate Rages Anew Over Sports

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 19

 BODY:
New Jersey's multibillion-dollar gambling industry says that, like the rest of the economy, it is ailing, and it wants to expand its base by legalizing sports betting.
The proposal has raised tempers as well as interest. Bills introduced in the New Jersey Legislature to allow betting on sporting events at Atlantic City casinos and at race tracks have drawn strong opposition from the National Basketball Association, the National Football League, the New Jersey Nets basketball team and the New York Giants and Jets football teams. 
 It has also caused a split in the state's Congressional delegation. Two New Jersey representatives have proposed an amendment to a Federal bill that would stop the spread of legalized sports betting; their proposal would give New Jersey two years to decide whether it wants to add sports betting to its gaming menu. But Senator Bill Bradley, the bill's sponsor, is fighting to kill the amendment and all legalized sports betting, even in Nevada, Oregon and Delaware, which have authorized some forms of sports wagering.
"Sports betting sends the wrong message to children," Mr. Bradley, who played basketball at Princeton University and later with the New York Knicks, said in a letter to Senator Joseph R. Biden, a Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "Sports should be about personal and team achievements, not about winning or losing money."
 
Senate to Review a Ban
 A coalition that includes the New Jersey Council of Churches, several county officials and amateur athletic organizations has announced its support for Mr. Bradley's legislation.
The Judiciary Committee will soon review the version of the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act that was passed by the House, which includes the amendment to exempt New Jersey while it decides the issue. Mr. Bradley's bill originally exempted states that have legalized some form of sports betting, but he has broadened it to try to ban all sports wagering.
Mr. Bradley's bill would ban sports betting in Las Vegas casinos, which report handling about $1.7 billion annually in bets on athletic events. An exemption for Nevada in the original bill prompted Representatives Robert G. Torricelli of Englewood and William J. Hughes of Ocean City, both Democrats, to argue successfully for the exemption allowing New Jersey "a window of opportunity" to catch up to its major rival as the nation's gaming capital.
 
Wagering Grows
 Mr. Torricelli said the original bill would have given Las Vegas a virtual monopoly on sports betting while permanently banning it in Atlantic City. That would pose a risk, he said, to more than $5 billion in private capital that has been invested in the Atlantic City casino industry, as well as to its 70,000 jobs and the $1.4 billion in business it does annually with New Jersey companies.
"Sports gambling exists in office pools, in wagers between friends and in organized crime -- and it is on the rise," Mr. Torricelli said in testimony before a House subcommittee in September. He cited Federal figures estimating that illegal sports betting increased by almost $13 billion from 1981 to 1989.
But Mr. Bradley and representatives of professional sports leagues said the economic arguments advanced by proponents of legalization are outweighed by the potential for corruption and the destruction of the relationship between a sports franchise and its fans, who would become more interested in whether their team beat the gambling odds than whether it won the game.
 
N.B.A. Opposition
 Mr. Bradley, who said he does not want to "see athletes turned into roulette chips," recalled the point-shaving scandals that have rocked college basketball periodically, starting in the 1950's, and said, "When the state sanctions sports gambling it is essentially, no matter what anybody will say about policing it, nodding in the direction of the gamblers' game."
He also said that legalized gambling does not reduce illegal gambling, as its proponents argue. The New Jersey lottery was supposed to cut into the illegal numbers game, he said, but law enforcement officials say it had no effect because illegal operators offer credit and illegal winnings are unreported and untaxed.
Gary B. Bettman, senior vice president and general counsel of the N.B.A., told a state Assembly committee hearing last month that a fan's perspective changes the instant one bets on a game.
Mr. Bettman imagined a situation in which the Nets are leading the Knicks by four points near the close of a game for which the Nets were favored by five. A Net snares a rebound, and the team, using sound strategy, holds onto the ball to run out the clock. But thousands of Nets fans, having placed bets at the race track across the Meadowlands complex, begin to boo because the team is not trying to beat the spread.
 
Potential for Revenue
 "The fact that the Nets have just defeated their archrival is lost on these fans who tear up their betting slips as they leave the arena," Mr. Bettman said. "This is not, I submit, what our game is intended to be about or a scenario you should encourage for New Jersey."
But Thomas D. Carver, president of the Casino Association of New Jersey, called arguments about the corrupting influence of legalized betting "specious."
"This is about property rights and money, and not about the youth of our country or anything else," he said. Atlantic City must remain competitive with Las Vegas, he added, and New Jersey casinos could easily match the $1.7 billion in sports betting reported by Las Vegas. He said this would generate $18 million in increased tax revenue for the state -- $4 million from sports betting and $14 million from betting on other games by people drawn to the casinos by sports betting.
While the casinos are lobbying for sports betting, the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority, which operates racing at the Meadowlands and at Monmouth Park in Oceanport, has taken no position on the bills.
But Richard Van Wagner, general manager of governmental and regulatory affairs for the authority, told the Assembly hearing that if sports betting is approved, "it should be looked at, for our purpose, as an extension of horse racing or parimutuel betting rather than a new form of gambling."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bill Bradley would like an end to all legalized sports betting. (The New York Times); Representatives William J. Hughes, right, and Robert G. Torricelli have both proposed an amendment to a Federal bill that would stop the spread of legalized sports betting. Their proposal would give New Jersey two years to decide whether it wants to allow sports betting. (Reuters; Stan Barouh)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY ; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW YORK JETS; NEW YORK GIANTS PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NEW YORK JETS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); BUFFALO BILLS (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY ; NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW YORK JETS; NEW YORK GIANTS NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NEW YORK JETS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW JERSEY NETS (83%); NEW YORK GIANTS (83%); BUFFALO BILLS (58%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; NEW JERSEY; NEVADA UNITED STATES (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (93%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ETHICS GAMING (93%); BASKETBALL (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SPORTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); CASINOS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); AMATEUR SPORTS (89%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); ETHICS (67%); COUNTIES (64%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: SULLIVAN, JOSEPH F; BRADLEY, BILL (SEN) ; TORRICELLI, ROBERT G (REPR); HUGHES, WILLIAM J (REPR) JOE BIDEN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



709 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Shevardnadze Returns as Soviet Foreign Minister

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 19

 BODY:
Eleven months after he resigned with a dramatic warning that a dictatorship was approaching, Eduard A. Shevardnadze returned today to head the Foreign Ministry as it prepared for a major reorganization and reduction.
Neither Mr. Shevardnadze nor President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, who reappointed the Foreign Minister, made any immediate comment. But a major move had been rumored after Russia and several other republics decided earlier this month to retain a Ministry of External Affairs as part of a sharply curtailed central government. 
 Western diplomats speculated that the return of Mr. Shevardnadze, who has been a staunch advocate of retaining the Union in some form, represented both his own interest in helping preserve a unified foreign policy, and Mr. Gorbachev's interest in giving the embattled central government as much credibility and respect as possible as it begins to restructure.
Boris D. Pankin, who was appointed Foreign Minister shortly after the August coup on the strength of his condemnation of the plotters from his post as Ambassador to Czechoslovakia, was named Ambassador to Britain today.
 
Ambassador Shuffle
 His appointment was part of a shuffle in which eight Soviet ambassadors were retired or reassigned. Most notable among these was the retirement of Leonid M. Zamyatin, 69 years old, the current Ambassador to Britain and a former chief of the International Information Department of the Communist party known for his heated defenses of Soviet policy.
In his three months at the Foreign Ministry, Mr. Pankin presided over a number of developments, including the restoration of diplomatic relations with Israel and the opening of the Middle East peace conference, but Western diplomats said he was not held in high regard within the Foreign Ministry, or in high respect among the republics.
Mr. Shevardnadze, by contrast, is a man with strong credentials among the men who now lead the country. He was probably the closest ally of Mr. Gorbachev's from the dawn of perestroika, and resigned just in time to see his warnings take shape with the bloody attempts to restore central control over the Baltic republics. During the putsch in August, Mr. Shevardnadze came to the headquarters of Boris N. Yeltsin, the President of the Russian federated repubic, and mingled with the crowd outside.
 
Welcomed in Washington
 Mr. Shevardnadze's return is also likely to be welcomed by Washington and other Western governments, where he won respect and made friends for his candid style and his achievements in translating "new thinking" into the liberation of East Europe, the winding down of the cold war and a host of disarmament agreements.
But in the Kremlin and at his neo-Gothic headquarters, Mr. Shevardnadze will rejoin a Government and a Foreign Ministry whose functions, responsibilities and future size are still unknown.
If a new "Union of Sovereign States" does take shape among at least some of the former Soviet republics, the Foreign Ministry -- merged with the former Minister of Foreign Trade, cut in half and renamed the Ministry of External Relations -- is among the central institutions that are to survive in a sharply reduced all-Union government, along with the Defense Ministry, a dismembered K.G.B. and some form of central financial institutions.
That was the decision reached last week by seven republican leaders meeting with Mr. Gorbachev in the State Council, the interim collective national executive, when they agreed to work toward a loose new confederation with a central government performing such functions as the republics assign it.
 
All Decisions Tentative
 All such decisions, however, remain tentative so long as all republics remain in the grip of nationalist fervor and economic chaos. So far, for example, the second most important republic, the Ukraine, has refused to participate in any talk of a new Union, while the most powerful republic, Russia, has continued expanding its own powers at the expense of the center.
In inviting Mr. Shevardnadze to take charge of foreign affairs, Mr. Gorbachev seemed to reach for one of the few men with sufficient prestige among all republics to have a chance of restoring a unified foreign policy. Mr. Shevardnadze will also be faced with the arduous task of slashing the Foreign Ministry, regarded as one of the most professional institutions in the Soviet Union.
Mr. Shevardnadze's political position will be different. If before he was directly subordinate to Mr. Gorbachev, he will now also be answerable to Mr. Yeltsin and other republican leaders, who have made clear they do not to let foreign policy out of their purview.
Today, for example, Mr. Yeltsin named Andrei Kolosovsky as the Russian republic's envoy to Washington, where he will serve as minister-counsellor in the Soviet Embassy. The foreign minister of the Russian republic, Andrei Kozyrev, has also demonstrated that he intends to play a role in shaping foreign policy.
 
Notable Reconciliation
 Whatever his political role will be, Mr. Shevardnadze's return marks a notable political reconciliation.
It was with the silver-haired leader of the Georgian republic that Mr. Gorbachev first plotted his reforms. In 1984, a year before Mr. Gorbachev came to power, it was Mr. Shevardnadze who told him privately, "Everything's rotten; it has to be changed." A year later Mr. Shevardnadze became one of the first members of Mr. Gorbachev's new team and his Foreign Minister.
In his memoirs, Mr. Shevardnadze described Mr. Gorbachev as his "dear, dear friend," and the suave, smooth Georgian seemed the perfect executor of the revolutionary shift in foreign policy.
By this time a year ago, however, Mr. Gorbachev had surrounded himself with old-guard Communists who held Mr. Shevardnadze personally responsible for what they saw as the unwarranted dismantling of the Soviet empire. Sensing no support from Mr. Gorbachev, aware of various plans to reimpose central control by force if need be, Mr. Shevardnadze on Dec. 20 made his prophetic resignation speech to the Congress of Peoples' Deputies, declaring that he was stepping down in "protest against the onset of dictatorship."
 
Criticism of Gorbachev
 In subsequent months, he often criticized Mr. Gorbachev. In a recently published political memoir, he wrote of Mr. Gorbachev's behavior on the eve of the coup, saying it was characteristic of the President that he "always remained deaf to the advice of the people genuinely loyal to him."
In the wake of the coup, Mr. Shevardnadze told interviewers he had no intention of returning to work with Mr. Gorbachev.
But in an interview with CNN, he also said, "If I and my colleagues in the democratic camp see that it is necessary, then everything will have to be done to pull the country out of this crisis, because an unstable Soviet Union means unstable Europe, and an unstable world."
In all other interviews in the three months since the coup, Mr. Shevardnadze has continued arguing on the need to preserve a union, and perhaps he concluded that it was time to help Mr. Gorbachev once again, this time in his struggle to preserve some form of union.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (94%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); COUPS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PEACE PROCESS (66%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (60%); 

PERSON: GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S; SHEVARDNADZE, EDUARD A (MIN); SCHMEMANN, SERGE

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



710 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Ravitch Will Now Take The Train to a New Game

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Richard Ravitch, a lawyer widely known in New York business, civic and political circles, became the No. 1 labor executive for baseball's club owners yesterday. His appointment, which had been expected, raised questions on two fronts.
*Given that he was hired at a salary said to be $750,000, which would be $100,000 more than Commissioner Fay Vincent's salary, were the owners sending the commissioner a message that he should stay out of labor relations? 
 *What effect might yet another new executive director of the Player Relations Committee have on future collective bargaining?
"The clubs are clearly entitled to appoint whoever they want to be head of the P.R.C.," said Donald Fehr, the head of the players' association, who joined the union as general counsel 14 years ago. "I find it sort of astonishing that this is the sixth director of the P.R.C. since I got here. That means once again the chief negotiator will come into negotiations without any experience in this industry. Beyond that, we will have to wait and see what happens."
Ravitch, an unsuccessful candidate for mayor of New York City in 1989, has been involved in labor negotiations and strikes, as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
"I think I've always enjoyed good relations with labor unions," he said in a telephone interview. "It's always been adversarial but never hostile."
Ravitch, 58 years old, becomes the sixth chief labor negotiator for baseball management, succeeding Charles O'Connor, a Washington lawyer, who remains as general counsel. As chief negotiator, O'Connor was joined in 1990 by Vincent and his deputy, Steve Greenberg, in the effort to reach an agreement that would end the owners' lockout of players from spring training camps. They succeeded after the lockout reached 32 days, but some owners were not pleased with the results. They felt that Vincent had played a role that was too large, too soft and too conciliatory.
Union officials and players, on the other hand, welcomed Vincent's effort and looked forward to a continuing relationship.
Bud Selig, owner of the Milwaukee Brewers and P.R.C. board chairman, said Ravitch's hiring -- he would not confirm his salary -- in no way was meant as a message to the commissioner to stay out of labor relations.
"That's not the message," Selig said by telephone from Milwaukee. "The message is very clear. The P.R.C. felt it needed the best person it could find. We determined we needed a person with the most varied background, a person who had great people skills, great intellect, a person who could do a great job at a time when baseball is at an economics crossroads. It's no more complicated than that."
Ravitch, who in 1975 was asked by Gov. Hugh Carey of New York to rescue the Urban Development Corporation, said it seemed "to be my fate in life -- maybe it's some masochistic streak -- to take on tough problems."
"I don't know enough yet," Ravitch said when asked about baseball's economics. "I have certain peoples' perception of the problems. I'm trying to get a handle on the issues. I'm learning about the economics of baseball as quickly as I can."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (78%); LAWYERS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); SPORTS BUSINESS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); MAYORS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TRAINS (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); 

PERSON: RAVITCH, RICHARD; CHASS, MURRAY FAY VINCENT (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



711 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
New Chairman Plans To Refocus Action Auto

 BODY:
Norton W. Rose has been elected chairman of Action Auto Rental, which provides rental cars mostly through insurance companies and auto repair shops, for drivers who have lost their vehicles through accidents, theft and other causes.
Mr. Rose, who is 62, has spent more than 30 years in the retail and insurance industries, and he hopes to use his skills in marketing to help refocus Action and revive its sagging financial performance. The privately held company based in Solon, Ohio, near Cleveland, lost $19 million in the first three quarters of 1991, compared with $7.9 million in the corresponding period of 1990. 
 "This business hasn't had a lot of marketing," Mr. Rose said, "nor has the industry as a whole. The people who are in it usually grew up in it. I hope I can bring a fresh look."
Action was founded in 1984 by Craig E. Hons, who is president and chief executive; James A. Terwoord, who is the chief financial officer; James Schiering, executive vice president, and Russell Smith, who is no longer with the company.
Action supplies rental cars in 35 states. The market has softened and Action hopes Mr. Rose, with his background in retailing, can help develop higher consumer awareness for the company.
"The industry is being impacted by the economy for the first time," Mr. Terwoord said. "Claim centers are reporting fewer accidents, so the demand is depressed."
According to Mr. Terwoord, Action Auto plans to concentrate on marketing and training personnel in customer relations to raise revenues, which is the primary reason they chose Mr. Rose. During his 33-year career at the Cole National Corporation, a specialty retailing company that owns chains like the Original Cookie Company and Things Remembered, Mr. Rose was president and chief executive officer for 14 years and oversaw the company's expansion from 300 stores to 1,900.
After leaving Cole National in 1982, Mr. Rose formed his own management consulting firm, and in 1985 became vice chairman of the Progressive Corporation, a property-casualty insurance company, under a special four-year arrangement.
"Norton's knowledge of the insurance business is clearly a plus," Mr. Terwoord said, "but it's secondary to his retail experience."
Mr. Rose agrees: "Renting cars from 180 branches in 35 states is a retail function. I hope to concentrate on the basics here: When branches make money, the company makes money."
Mr. Rose attended Ohio State for one year, he said, "and it was a very, very unimportant part of my life." He joined Cole National in 1948, and has been in business ever since.
In addition to his position at Action Auto, Mr. Rose will continue as president of his consulting firm, Norton W. Rose & Company, and will continue to sit on the boards of nine other companies.
Mr. Rose has four children and lives with his wife, Jackie, in Shaker Heights, Ohio.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Norton W. Rose: Action Auto Rental

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: BUSINESS PEOPLE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: LUX (NYSE) (82%); LUX (BIT) (82%); PGR (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (85%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (85%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS446130 OPTICAL GOODS STORES (82%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (65%); SIC5461 RETAIL BAKERIES (65%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (63%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ACTION AUTO RENTAL INC NORTON ROSE LLP (85%); LUXOTTICA GROUP SPA (82%); ORIGINAL COOKIE CO INC (65%); PROGRESSIVE CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACTION AUTO RENTAL INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (76%); AWARENESS MARKETING (76%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (61%); 

PERSON: ROSE, NORTON W CRAIG E HONS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



712 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Back to the Bush in Zaire

 BODY:
As his country collapses around him, President Mobutu Sese Seko of Zaire finds that even his old American friends have deserted him. The only argument in Washington is whether he ought to be induced to share power in a transition regime or nudged aboard a midnight flight to exile. A nudge to the exit is long overdue.
Elevated to power with Western help, Mr. Mobutu in 26 years has amassed billions, including castles, palaces and luxurious estates in Europe. Meantime, the people of Zaire are poorer today than when the former Belgian Congo became independent in 1960. 
 Poverty and desperation have brought Zaire close to anarchy. An ill-paid army has run wild, inflation has soared and thousands of foreign workers and technicians have fled, crippling a once-flourishing mining industry. Hopes for a political resolution evaporated last month when Mr. Mobutu dismissed the opposition Prime Minister he had appointed only a month earlier.
Zaire's tragedy is America's embarrassment. Six successive Administrations have closed their eyes to Mr. Mobutu's kleptocracy and played down his brutality. Zaire has been viewed as "an element of stability" in Africa, a vital bulwark against Communism. But with the end of the cold war, Mr. Mobutu lost his last shred of legitimacy.
In 1960 Mr. Mobutu, then a high army officer, was nominally a supporter of the leftist Patrice Lumumba, Zaire's only elected Prime Minister. Alarmed by Mr. Lumumba's friendly overtures to Moscow, the Eisenhower Administration became convinced of the need, as one U.S. diplomat put it, to "find or develop another horse."
At that time there was turmoil in what was invariably called the "copper-rich breakaway province of Katanga," which threatened secession. A United Nations peacekeeping force was dispatched to impose a solution. In the melee, with C.I.A. complicity, Mr. Lumumba was murdered. In 1965 Mr. Mobutu seized power in a coup; the West had found its horse.
No doubt Mr. Mobutu was, as the saying went, a cold war asset. He made himself useful to Washington by aiding a rebellion against a new Marxist regime in Angola. By the 1970's, Zaire was the biggest recipient of U.S. aid in sub-Saharan Africa.
That era has passed, yet last year the Bush Administration was still pushing for arms aid to Zaire. Congress fortunately decided otherwise. The present reality in Zaire is captured in a report by The Times's Kenneth Noble from Kikwit, a once flourishing city of 400,000: "Civilization is coming to an end here," said the manager of an empty food store. "We're back where we started. We're going back to the bush."
Mr. Mobutu promises to agree by tomorrow on a formula for choosing a new prime minister who can competently head a new government. The wise and decent course is for Mr. Mobutu to honor that pledge, and then depart.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ANGOLA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ZAIRE UNITED STATES (96%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (95%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); ANGOLA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ARMIES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); COUPS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); MINES & MINING (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: MOBUTU SESE SEKO (PRES) MOBUTU SESE SEKO (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



713 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: The Senate's Credit Card Blunder

 BODY:
The Senate's hasty reaction to President Bush's call for lower interest on credit cards is a model of how not to govern. The President's exhortation was harmless jawboning. But the Senate's overwhelming approval of an interest-rate cap barely 24 hours later was populist folly.
Price controls, whether on goods or the cost of credit, are a bad idea except in a genuine emergency. They distort economic activity, and the eventual process of decontrol is always painful. Nonetheless, with no public hearings and only 30 minutes of floor discussion, 73 senators agreed with Senator Alfonse D'Amato's rash proposal to chop most credit card rates immediately. 
 Three-quarters of America's households have credit cards -- about 1.3 billion cards altogether. Visa and Mastercard are the most widely used, and Citicorp is the biggest issuer. But there is no lack of competition among banks, as well as from American Express, the Sears Discover card, A.T.& T. and countless stores and oil companies.
Their interest rates tend to cluster between 18 and 20 percent, but shoppers with good credit standing can find lower rates, even below 10 percent. Most don't bother, though. Roughly one-third of all card holders don't care about rates; they pay on time and owe no interest. Others may simply take the card their bank offers, or whatever comes in the mail, regardless of the interest rate.
It is true that credit card rates are high, and that they've hardly budged while other rates have plunged. But it does not follow that credit card users would benefit from a forced cut to Senator D'Amato's arbitrary 14 percent. One reason rates are slow to fall is that, in a recession, the issuers must absorb higher losses from rising defaults. Indeed, the impulsive Senator from New York couldn't have picked a worse time for his mischief.
Millions of card holders would suffer, because banks and other issuers would cancel the cards of less creditworthy customers. People with limited incomes would suffer most; they depend on the elbow room a credit card provides. Issuers would suffer too, especially troubled banks in need of card profits to offset other loan losses. And the economy would suffer. It's already sluggish, and a curb on consumer credit wouldn't help.
The House is moving more deliberately than the Senate. Unnerved by Friday's sharp stock market drop and heavily lobbied by card issuers and the Administration, it is caught between the obviously popular idea of reducing rates and the risk of doing real harm.
A sensible proposal by Representative Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, would make credit card issuers disclose their rates more conspicuously. To blunt the commotion over the D'Amato bill, there has also been talk of a nonpartisan study of the industry's competitiveness, meanwhile delaying a rate ceiling until after the study.
Such a survey would be useful, but a decision on whether to impose a cap sometime in the future should wait. It's not likely to make any more sense then it does now.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Many Pay What Rate" shows the number of bank cards, in millions, and the interest rate paid. (Source: Consumer Credit Card Rating Service, Santa Monica, Calif.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: V (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VISA INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; RATES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; EDITORIALS; INTEREST (MONEY) ; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CONSUMER CREDIT CREDIT CARDS (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); RECESSION (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (68%); BANK FAILURES (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (67%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



714 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The 'Lost' Soviet Trade Bill

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB

 BODY:
Mighty matters in the U.S. Government often turn on small principles and on the whims of powerful men like Dan Rostenkowski and Richard Darman. An eight-month tiff between the imperious chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee and the devious White House budget chief explains why Congress still has not approved a key ingredient of U.S. foreign policy -- the bill to establish most-favored-nation trading status for the Soviet Union.
In June, President Bush decided that Moscow had finally removed barriers to emigration and was thus qualified for normal, or M.F.N., trade rank. His hope was to reduce tariffs quickly for Soviet exports, as one of the few inexpensive ways to help the deteriorating Soviet economy. 
 But the fates would not have it done so easily. They tapped two men renowned for jousting and jockeying, and turned matters of high policy into a legislative pie-throwing contest.
Actually the fates intervened two years ago when the Jesuit Fathers of Loyola University of Chicago asked their most influential alumnus, Mr. Rostenkowski, to help secure Federal funds for a library and business school. Like any creative legislator, he gazed upon the Pentagon budget and unearthed an odd $8 million. And who was to tell him no?
Well, the fathers told him no. They said they did not want money from the very source that was financing bloody Central American dictators. Ever the good alumnus, Mr. Rostenkowski switched the $8 million in March from the defense budget to the Education Department budget.
Richard Darman, ever vigilant against scams he did not conceive, told the chairman he could not do that. The move violated the sacred budget covenant of 1990, which barred transferring money between military and domestic spending accounts. But, replied the chairman, it was only a few million and surely Mr. Darman could find some extra dollars lying around domestic accounts to cover the small excess.
No, said Mr. Darman. A deal was a deal, and no matter how small the amount, any deviation from the covenant would cause the whole temple of government to tumble down.
You're kidding, said the chairman.
Mr. Darman wasn't kidding. He did what he was empowered by law to do -- he sequestered or set aside the necessary funds to cover the excess from every domestic budget account. This came to 0.0013 percent or an average of 10 cents from each domestic program.
The chairman was not happy. He had tried to do a good deed for his alma mater, for which generosity Mr. Darman had embarrassed him by public sequestration. The day of reckoning, however, was not far off.
In August Mr. Bush sent Congress M.F.N. legislation, and it went to Mr. Rostenkowski's committee. He immediately wrote to Mr. Darman, inquiring whether the U.S. Treasury would lose money as a result of the lowered tariffs, and whether this loss would be covered by sequestering funds from other international accounts. Mr. Darman said it was only a little amount. Mr. Rostenkowski said a deal was a deal no matter how tiny the sum, and unless Mr. Darman produced the necessary funds ($20 million for loss in revenues from the Soviet Union and another $20 million for other countries), he would not take action on the M.F.N. bill.
There matters stood until yesterday. The budget chief wrote to the chairman announcing he had found extra money, and that if the committee acted "promptly," there would be no need for sequestration. His point made, the chairman's committee passed the M.F.N. bill.
Now everybody is happy again. Loyola University will receive its $8 million from the Education Department, not the Pentagon. The Pentagon gets to keep its own $8 million for other worthy purposes. Dan Rostenkowski and Dick Darman can hold their heads high, having preserved budget principles. And the administrative bill for the 0.0013 percent sequestration ordered by Mr. Darman probably cost the American taxpayer only an additional $10 million.
Now also, M.F.N. status for the Soviet Union can make its way through Congress, and more Soviet exports will enter the U.S. at lower tariffs. That is, if the U.S.S.R. doesn't, as Ambassador Robert Strauss has warned, "blow up in our face" and turn "fascist" while Washington power brokers play their games.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (70%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

COMPANY: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT ; LOYOLA UNIVERSITY (CHICAGO) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EDUCATION DEPARTMENT ; LOYOLA UNIVERSITY (CHICAGO) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); ILLINOIS, USA (70%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-USSR; MOST-FAVORED-NATION TREATMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION ; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); 

PERSON: ROSTENKOWSKI, DAN (REPR); DARMAN, RICHARD G (BUDGET DIR) GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



715 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Carl Winter, Imprisoned by U.S. As Communist Leader, Dies at 85

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Carl Winter, a Communist Party official and former editor who in 1949 was among the first group of defendants to be convicted under the Smith Act of conspiring against the United States Government, died Saturday in New York. He was 85 years old and lived in Detroit.
He collapsed at the party's offices in Manhattan and died of a heart attack minutes after giving a speech, said a party spokesman, Si Gerson. 
 Mr. Winter, the party chairman in Michigan, served a five-year sentence in Federal prisons. On release from the prison in Leavenworth, Kan., he was immediately rearrested on parallel charges. They were not dropped until 1963.
The Smith Act, also known as the Alien Registration Act of 1940, made it a criminal offense to conspire to advocate violent overthrow of the Government or to organize or belong to any group that so conspired. After World War II, the act was used to prosecute ranking members of the American Communist Party.
In July 1948, dual conspiracy and membership indictments were handed up against Mr. Winter, but the Federal District Court in Manhattan declined a Government motion to combine them in one trial. After nine months of testimony before Judge Harold J. Medina, Mr. Winter and 10 others were found guilty of conspiracy. Six more groups of alleged conspirators were awaiting trial at the time.
The Supreme Court upheld the convictions of the 11 in 1951. When Mr. Winter emerged from prison in 1955, he and others were promptly arrested again on the membership indictments. While Mr. Winter remained free on bail, legal scholars questioned the arrest, and intellectuals petitioned President Dwight D. Eisenhower, noting that the defendants would be in double jeopardy as the case would largely echo the conspiracy prosecution.
In a 1957 decision, the Supreme Court began to amend its 1951 judgment with a narrower reading of the Smith Act, and the Court's further modification of its position in 1963 led to the dropping of charges against Mr. Winter.
Mr. Winter resumed his role as Michigan state chairman. He later was the party's Midwest director before becoming editor in chief of The Worker, the national party newspaper published in New York City, in 1966 and then co-editor of The World, its successor paper, now the People's Weekly World.
 
Joined Party in 1925
 Born in Pittsburgh, he became a draftsman, joined the party in 1925 and turned full-time party functionary in 1931 as head of the Unemployment Council of Greater New York. He then held various other party positions in Cleveland, Los Angeles and elsewhere before becoming Michigan chairman in 1945.
At the time of his death, he was a member of the National Committee of the Communist Party USA.
Mr. Winter is survived by his wife, Helen, herself a Smith Act defendant and daughter of Alfred Wagenknecht, a charter member of the party in the United States. Also surviving are their daughter, Helen, and two grandchildren.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 21, 1991, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An obituary yesterday about Carl Winter, a Communist Party leader who was convicted of conspiracy against the United States Government, misidentified his daughter. Her first name is Michele.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Carl Winter (The New York Times, 1974)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Obituary (Obit)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); DEATHS (90%); PRISONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); POLITICS (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (87%); VERDICTS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); BAIL (73%); JUDGES (73%); WORLD WAR II (69%); PETITIONS (67%); APPEALS (65%); 

PERSON: WINTER, CARL; SAXON, WOLFGANG

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



716 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 20, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY;
'Smart' Plans for Clogged Roads

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.

 BODY:
Each day on the nation's streets, roads and highways, some 135 million cars -- one for every 1.8 people in the country -- are vying for the American right to freedom of movement. But during peak periods, two-thirds of the cars on interstate highways are moving at less than 35 miles an hour. And around cities like New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, many are barely moving at all.
Seeking relief from the congestion, government, academic and industry researchers have for more than two decades experimented with automated highway and driver-information systems to route cars around bottlenecks or prevent tie-ups in the first place. But so far, the work and the financing have been intermittent. 
 Now, however, at a time when Congress is setting aside more money for highway-automation research, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology is gearing up a broad-based partnership with private industry to put the traffic-management theories where the rubber meets the road.
 
'More Than Just an Annoyance'
 "Traffic is more than just an annoyance; it has direct economic costs," said Moshe Ben-Akiva, a professor of civil engineering at M.I.T. and director of the project. "Highway networks are directly related to productivity in this country."
Enlisting participation and money from auto makers, electronics manufacturers, transportation companies and other businesses, M.I.T. intends to weave together various threads of research to bring forth national proposals and standards for what are known as "intelligent vehicle/highway systems." Professor Ben-Akiva said M.I.T. was "in a unique position to bring together technical, engineering and policy-making know-how in an institutional setting,"
The goal: to make real a long-envisioned system of dashboard computers with electronic links to roadways and to highway control centers. Such a network could provide instant and accurate traffic information, indicate the best available routes, enhance urban traffic management and support accident-avoidance systems.
Already, Motorola Inc. and Sumitomo of Japan have signed up for the M.I.T. project. And Professor Ben-Akiva estimated that as many as 20 other companies would each make commitments to provide $75,000 annually for at least three years to support the research. The work is expected to begin bearing technological fruit -- initially in cars, eventually in highways -- over the next decade.
 
Delays Long, and Increasing
 The Federal Department of Transportation, which supports most of the intelligent-highway research around the nation, estimates that every year traffic congestion causes more than two billion vehicle hours of delays; the department estimates that those delays will increase fourfold by the year 2000. And a study of 39 large cities by the Texas Transportation Institute at Texas A & M University estimates that productivity lost to traffic is already costing the United States more than $40 billion a year.
Congress, in an effort to stimulate solutions, appropriated $20 million for intelligent-highway research last year, and this year has approved more than seven times that amount -- $150 million -- as a provision of the Surface Transportation Authorization Act of 1991. The legislation, which has been passed by both the House and Senate, is expected to become law, perhaps before Thanksgiving.
M.I.T. is likely to receive part of the Congressional money, as are other universities in the field, including the University of Michigan and the University of California at Berkeley.
Joseph Sussman, an M.I.T. civil engineering professor on leave to work on the Transportation Department's smart-highways effort, predicts that the technology "will become the anchor for transportation for the next 30 years, just as the interstate highway system was over the last 40."
At M.I.T., which currently has about $1 million a year in research money for its intelligent-highways work, Professor Ben-Akiva's team will pull together the efforts of various departments within the university. The disparate groups include the Center for Transportation Studies; the Center for Technology, Policy and Industrial Development; the Intelligent Engineering Systems Lab; the Lincoln Laboratory electronics research center, and the Man-Machine Systems Laboratory. Professor Ben-Akiva also expects the M.I.T. Media Lab and the Sloan Automotive Lab to participate eventually.
The advanced systems aim to give drivers more timely and precise information than setups like the current network of overhead electronic signs on the Long Island Expressway -- which, when it works, often provides little more help than a message like "Delays Ahead" to the motorist already mired in traffic molasses.
Professor Ben-Akiva said that future approaches, ideally, would provide individual drivers accurate information about the best available route before they became stuck. The systems would also allow for sophisticated management of overall traffic.
Professor Ben-Akiva noted that today most people depend on low-tech alternatives like the intermittent traffic updates on local radio stations. These advisories, unfortunately, rely largely on anecdotal and highly subjective observations.
Professor Ben-Akiva has discovered, for instance, that four traffic reporters working for four Boston-area radio stations fly together every day in a single helicopter provided by Metro Traffic Control Inc. After recording and analyzing the four stations' morning drive-time programming for a week, he concluded that the motoring public was often receiving conflicting advice.
"All the reports were different in what they emphasized and the traffic picture they painted," he said, "despite the fact that the four reporters were sitting right next to each other."
 
2-Way Communications
 Various technological approaches are on the drawing board, and in some cases, already on the roadways. M.I.T.'s program is intended to pursue several intelligent vehicle-highway system concepts.
One concept is the Advanced Traveler Information System and Advanced Traffic-Management System. Such a system would offer two-way communications between drivers and highway operations centers. Computer networks would monitor the highways, and drivers would have access through dashboard computer screens to information on immediate road conditions, traffic snags and alternative routes.
In Minneapolis, a percursor to such a system employs highway video cameras, electronic road signs and orchestrated traffic lights. Motorists receive traffic updates from a special radio station. The experiment has helped to raise average speeds by 35 percent and to reduce accidents by 27 percent on a three-mile stretch of Interstate 394.
In Seattle, a conceptually similar experiment, involving electronic surveillance of highway entrance ramps and the synchronized timing of traffic lights on the ramps, has reduced average travel time to 11.5 minutes, from 22 minutes, on a 6.9-mile stretch of interstate highway.
A second research category at M.I.T. involves automated vehicle-control systems. Such systems would automate functions now performed by drivers, sensing objects around the vehicle, warning of impending collisions and braking to avoid collision. A sophisticated cruise-control function would keep the vehicle centered in its lane and detect slower vehicles ahead.
Commercial vehicle operations are a third category. These systems would provide specialized functions for commercial vehicles, like fleet monitoring, truck weighing and toll paying, while allowing highway officials to ascertain whether traveling vehicles meet weight limits and other regulatory guidelines.
Thomas D. Larson, the head of the Federal Highway Administration, said he was excited about the M.I.T. project because of the history of cooperation between M.I.T. and industrial partners, in fields as diverse as military technology and personal computing. He also pointed out that the cross-disciplinary cooperation between technology departments and policy-making centers made M.I.T.'s efforts a key to the long-range success of intelligent-highway research. "M.I.T. probably has as complete a program as you can find anywhere," Mr. Larson said.
Such efforts are crucial, Mr. Larson said, because the national highway system has reached its capacity. Limited space and the resistance of landowners mean that the historical remedy -- building more roads -- is no longer an option.
What is more, he said, the public's patience has been pushed beyond capacity, too: "Red-light running is becoming epidemic, because people are just so frustrated. We have to turn to technology. We simply must find relief."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Massachusetts Institute of Technology project seeks to put traffic-management theories into use. Moshe Ben-Akiva, director of the M.I.T. project, stood amid the traffic of Times Square during a visit to New York. (Jack Manning/The New York Times) (pg. D9)
 
Diagram: "A Future Traffic-Management System"
 How the traffic-management system under development at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology might be constructed.
 A. Traffic-management center collects traffic data and coordinates traffic lights.
 B. Adaptive traffic light can be set to respond to changing traffic conditions.
 C. Automated local traffic controller communicates with management center and vehicles; receives data from sensors.
 D. Sensors in the road feed traffic data to local controller.
 E. Screens in vehicles provide information about road conditions, alternate routes and traffic. (Source: Massachusetts Institute of Technology) (pg. D1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (63%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (63%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; RESEARCH; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ELECTRONICS (75%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (75%); INTELLIGENT TRANSPORT SYSTEMS (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (70%); JOINT VENTURES (68%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1991



717 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 88 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Jersey Turnpike Issue Is Rated A

 BODY:
Moody's Investors Services yesterday confirmed its A rating on the New Jersey Turnpike Authority's revenue bond issue that is expected to be negotiated this week with underwriters. The issue totals $1.3 billlion of serial refunding bonds. 
 Moody's said the turnpike has shown strong growth in traffic in recent years, but the recession and a large toll increase have contributed to a 6 percent decline in traffic so far this year. An additional 50 percent toll increase is likely to be needed in 1995, Moody's said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (93%); NEW JERSEY TURNPIKE AUTHORITY INC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW JERSEY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS BOND ISSUES (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



718 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: CONSUMER RATES;
Yields of Money Funds Are Down in Week

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH M. FOWLER

 BODY:
Yields on tax-exempt and taxable money market funds fell moderately in the week that ended yesterday, according to IBC/Donoghue's, which monitors them and publishes The Money Fund Report.
"There were some postponements of large municipal offerings, which affected the supply and tended to lower interest rates," Walter S. Frank, the chief economist for IBC/ Donoghue's, said concerning the yields on tax-exempt funds. "We will see a heavy supply soon, which will probably bolster yields." 
 As for the taxables, he said, "We would expect the yields to begin to bottom out, although they are still feeling the impact of the recent Federal Reserve easing."
He added that that by the end of next month, seasonal influences would have taken hold, and those should temporarily raise yields above what he called their equilibrium levels.
 
Tax-Exempt Assets Up
 Total assets of the tax-exempt funds inched up by only $192 million, to $91.3 billion, compared with the huge rise of $1.2 billion the previous week. The average days to maturity of holdings in tax-exempt portfolios slipped by a day, to 59.
The seven-day compound average yield for tax-exempt funds fell to 3.75 percent, from 3.82 percent, a decline of 7 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. The seven-day simple yield for the tax-exempts dropped to 3.69, from 3.75 percent.
At the same time, the 30-day compound yield dropped to 3.87 percent, from 3.89 percent, while the 30-day simple compound yield was at 3.80 percent, down from 3.82 percent.
Among the tax-exempt funds that invest in individual state securities, the top New York fund was, once again, the Salomon Brothers New York Municipal Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compound yield of 4.49 percent, down by a basis point from 4.50 percent the previous week.
 
Fidelity Leads in Connecticut
 In Connecticut, the leader once again was the Fidelity Spartan Connecticut Municipal Money Market Portfolio, reporting a seven-day compound yield of 4.11 percent, down by 2 basis points from 4.13 percent.
In New Jersey, the best showing was made by the Prudential N.J. Municipal Money Market Fund, with a yield of 4.28 percent.
The highest-yielding tax-exempt fund among those with assets greater than $100 million continued to be the Strong Municipal Money Market Fund, with a seven-day compound yield of 4.80 percent, down by 4 basis points.
The assets of taxable funds, Mr. Frank said, rose by $7.6 billion in the last week, to a total of $471.7 billion. "Of that rise, $6.7 billion came from institutional investors," he said. "This presumably was money leaving the stock market and being put into money market funds as a temporary haven. We get a snapshot only once a week."
The average maturities of portfolio holdings were unchanged at 63 days, Mr. Frank said.
 
7-Day Yield Down to 4.90%
 The seven-day compound yield on taxable funds dropped by 2 basis points, to 4.90 percent, from 4.92 percent, while the seven-day simple yield for the taxable funds dropped to 4.78 percent, 3 basis points under last week's 4.81 percent.
Meanwhile, the average compound 30-day yield fell to 5.00 percent, from 5.06 percent, and the 30-day simple yield was down to 4.88 from 4.94 percent.
The top-yielding taxable fund for the week continued to be Riverside Capital in Columbus, Ohio, with a seven-day compound yield of 5.95 percent, compared with 6.07 last week.
By comparison, bank money market accounts, a primary competitor of the money funds, dropped to a yield of 4.74 percent, from 4.78 percent a week earlier, according to The Bank Rate Monitor.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Maturities" show average days to maturity of securities held in money market mutual fund portfolios from Nov. 1990-Nov. 1991. (Source: Donoghue's Money Fund Report); "Consumer Money Rates" shows Donoghue's MoneyFund seven-day compounded average yield and the Bank Rate Monitor national index of money-market accounts from Aug.-Nov. 1991. (Sources: Bank Rate Monitor; IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report)
 
Table: "Regional Rates Table"
 Following are average annual effective yields, in percent, on money-market accounts and C.D.'s offered on March 13, 1991, by the 10 largest banks and savings institutions in each of the 10 largest metropolitan areas.

 	 	 		Money	6-Mo.		Mkt.	C.D.	 	 	 	New York	4.57	4.74	Los Angeles	4.76	4.89	Chicago	4.71	4.95	San Francisco	4.69	4.87	Philadelphia	4.64	4.85	Detroit	4.73	4.87	Boston	4.71	4.90	Houston	4.81	4.82	Dallas	4.87	4.87	Washington	4.89	5.42	Bank Rate Monitor Index*	4.74	4.92	
 
* Annual effective yields offered by 100 large institutions in the 10 largest U.S. markets.
 
(Source: Bank Rate Monitor, N. Palm Beach, 33408)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); CONNECTICUT, USA (85%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); DETROIT, MI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BONDS (79%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: FOWLER, ELIZABETH M

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



719 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Reports of Soviet Food Aid Send Wheat Prices Soaring

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Wheat prices soared today on reports that the Bush Administration would offer the Soviet Union a food assistance package that would include large amounts of American wheat.
After the close of trading, the White House announced a smaller-than-expected $1.25 billion package of credit guarantees for the Soviets, to be used primarily to buy grains for cattle. 
 Nevertheless, analysts were moderately positive about the long-awaited deal, although it failed to meet traders' hopes that the grant would be worth at least $1.5 billion. The Soviet Government had requested $3.5 billion in aid.
"I think the credit package will continually feed the market with demand, and there is no fundamental reason to sell," said Bill Biedermann, an analyst at Allendale Inc.,
Wheat prices, already buoyed by China's bids for a million metric tons of American wheat this week, shot up 13 cents in the December contract to close at $3.67 a bushel at the Chicago Board of Trade.
Meanwhile, January soybeans inched up 1.75 cents, to $5.64 1/2 a bushel, and December corn rose 2 cents, to $2.41 3/4 a bushel.
At the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, beef and pork prices rose, with the cattle market firmer following the Government's monthly report on herd size.
Traders pointed to the Agriculture Department's estimate that during October a smaller number of cattle were placed on feedlots to be fattened. The figure caused February live cattle to rise 0.350 of a cent, to 75.10 cents a pound. November feeder cattle gained 0.375 of a cent, to 84.375 cents a pound.
A storm approaching the Great Plains helped drive up hog and belly prices, on the belief that it will be more difficult to bring animals to market. December live hogs gained 0.725 cent, to 42.525 cents a pound, and February pork bellies firmed at 0.250 cent, to 40.40 cents a pound.
An encouraging housing starts report, which showed October starts up a surprising 7.3 percent, lifted lumber prices at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. January lumber closed $1.40 higher at $205.10 for a thousand board feet.
Oil prices rebounded from their sharp downturn earlier this week on the New York Mercantile Exchange. December crude oil, in its last day of trading before the contract expires, rose 22 cents, to $22.22 a barrel.
"We may be in the midst of a rally that could last a day or two," said Peter Beutel, energy analyst at Pegasus Econometric Inc. "But, long term, what we've seen this week is an indication the market wants to go lower."
December unleaded gasoline gained 0.83 cent, to 63.45 cents a gallon, helped by the American Petroleum Institute's report that inventories had fallen last week.
Higher domestic inventories of heating oil burdened that market, and December dropped 0.70 of a cent, to 63.73 cents a gallon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (90%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GRAIN; PRICES AGRICULTURAL PRICES (96%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BEEF & CATTLE MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); PORK (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GASOLINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); CATTLE FEEDLOTS (76%); MEATS (76%); HEATING OIL (74%); HOUSING STARTS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



720 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up in Light Trading; Gold Prices Mostly Higher

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar advanced on world currency markets yesterday, but trading was light as dealers turned their attention to Wall Street.
Gold prices were mostly higher. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $364.30 a troy ounce, up 40 cents from Tuesday. The Republic National Bank said gold rose 75 cents an ounce, to a late bid price of $363.65. 
 Analysts said trading was dull, with the dollar confined to a relatively narrow range. The currency's seesaw moves essentially tracked the stock market.
"When the stock market moved up, the dollar rose; when it was weakening, the dollar sold off," said Marc Chandler, an analyst with the financial advisory firm IDEA.
The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial issues lost less than 2 points on the day but had been slightly higher for much of the session.
A better-than-expected 7.3 percent jump in housing starts last month failed to reverse the currency market's bearish psychology.
"The data that's been coming out recently has been pretty weak and dismal for the economy," said Kevin Lawrie, director of foreign exchange at the Bank of Boston. Despite the favorable housing starts report, "people are waiting to jump on the bandwagon to sell the dollar," he said.
Traders said the Canadian dollar came under severe pressure, and the Bank of Canada entered the market to shore up the flagging currency by purchasing it. There were rumors that a number of large institutional investors were selling their Canadian dollars despite the high interest rates available there.
In Tokyo, the dollar fell 0.08 yen, to a closing 129.40 yen. Later in London, it was quoted at 129.75 yen. In New York the dollar settled at 129.80 yen, unchanged from Tuesday.
In London, the British pound fell to $1.7945, from $1.7965 late Tuesday. In New York it cost $1.7977 to buy one pound, less expensive than Tuesday's $1.8000.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.6000 German marks, up from 1.5965; 1.4200 Swiss francs, up from 1.4165; 5.4658 French francs, up from 5.4125; 1,208.00 Italian lire, up from 1,207.00, and 1.1355 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1288.
Other late dollar rates in Europe, compared with late Tuesday's rates, included: 1.6025 German marks, up from 1.6020; 1.4223 Swiss francs, up from 1.4195; 5.4758 French francs, up from 5.4710; 1.8055 Dutch guilders, up from 1.8045; 1,210.25 Italian lire, down from 1,211.15, and 1.1360 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1287.
Gold fell in London to a late bid price of $362.85 a troy ounce, from $363.25 bid late Tuesday. In Zurich, it fell to a closing bid of $362.60 from $363.10. Earlier in Hong Kong, gold rose $1.95 to close at a bid $362.52.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); JAPAN (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); SWITZERLAND (70%); UNITED KINGDOM (68%); JAPAN (54%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); ZURICH (70%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; PRICES; GOLD CURRENCIES (95%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); HOUSING STARTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (69%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



721 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
New York City Sale Goes Well

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
A $1.27 billion offering of New York City bonds was warmly received by investors yesterday, but the securities were sold at higher interest rates than had been anticipated late last week.
The negotiated sale produced yields that range from 4.50 percent on securities maturing in 1992, 7 percent on bonds maturing in 1996, 7.60 percent in 2001 and 7 7/8 percent on securities maturing from 2010 through 2015. 
 The maximum yield was well under the 8.10 percent generated at the last city bond sale in early August. But municipal bond market participants said late last week that they expected the maximum yield on the city securities sold yesterday would probably not exceed 7.75 percent.
News on Tuesday from New York State budget officials that the gap in the coming state budget may be twice what was estimated during the summer is almost certainly the reason why the city was forced to pay higher rates for the securities, analysts said.
The budget news created turmoil in outstanding New York State debt issues on Tuesday, and yesterday the market reaction pursuaded syndicate managers to reprice an issue of $423 million worth of securities for the Metropolitan Transit Authority.
Those securities, which are payable solely from and are secured by payments from New York State, were initially offered to investors last week.
The underwriting syndicate, led by Goldman, Sachs & Company, raised yields by anywhere from 5 basis points, or five one-hundredths of a percentage point, to 15 basis points on securities maturing in 1995 through 2006.
"We repriced them because we believed that the market was no longer reflective of where it had been relative to the M.T.A.," said David C. Clapp, a general partner at Goldman, Sachs.
 
City Bond Issue Proceeds
 Proceeds from the city bond issue will be used for the nullifaction, or defeasance, of outstanding bonds backed by insurance companies or commercial letters of credit.
Defeasance is a process by which interest and principal payments will come from a pool of Treasury securities rather than from the city. The process will allow insurers to provide more guarantees for coming city debt issues, which will result in lower borrowing costs.
"We still have to do our final calculations, but it looks like this will save the city around $120 million in borrowing costs, $87 million of which will come in the current fiscal year, " said Eric H. Altman, a managing director at J. P. Morgan Securities Inc., lead manager on the New York City underwriting.
Mr. Altman said that demand for the securities was well in excess of the amount sold. The issue is rated Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service and A- by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Developments in the tax-exempt municipal bond market overshadowed activity in the Government securities market yesterday.
A report showing that housing starts posted an unexpectedly robust 7.3 percent increase in October helped to push down prices of Treasury securities early in the session. But those declines were reversed as the session wore on, and prices were generally higher than late Tuesday as traders headed home.
 
Encouraged by Housing Report
 After a spate of dismal economic reports, analysts said they were encouraged by the housing report. But they cautioned against reading too much into one upbeat statistic.
"It is good news, and it is conceivable we may be seeing a reaction to lower mortgage interest rates," said Lyle E. Gramley, chief economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association in Washington.
"But I don't think we are seeing enough here to say that the recovery is staying afloat. We need more good numbers to be able to do that. And the recent statistics have been quite discouraging."
By late yesterday, the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 101 6/32, up 1/4 point, to yield 7.89 percent, compared with 7.91 percent late Tuesday.
Among outstanding Treasury note issues, the 7 3/4 percent 10-year notes were offered at 101, up 1/32, to yield 7.35 percent.
Yesterday the Treasury announced it will sell $13.5 billion worth of two-year notes on Monday and $9 billion worth of five-year notes on Tuesday.
In when-issued trading after the announcement, the two-year notes were offered at a price to yield 5.50 percent, while the five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 6.55 percent.
The auctions, which are normally held later in the week, have been moved up this month because of Thanksgiving.
The Treasury also announced that the deadline for noncompetitive bids at the two-year note sale will be moved up one hour, to 11 A.M., and that competitive bids at that sale must be submitted by noon.
No reason was given for the change, but analysts said the move seemed clearly aimed at avoiding a conflict with announcement of results from the Treasury's weekly bill sale, which will also be held on Monday.
Rates on outstanding Treasury bills moved lower yesterday.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.47 percent late yesterday, down 5 basis points. Six-month bill rates fell by 2 basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.53 percent.
A number of other issuers besides New York City offered new securities in the tax-exempt municipal bond market.
Among the other states and localities that priced new debt was the State of Florida's Board of Education, which sold $250 million worth of securities at competitive bid.
A bid from a group led by Dillon, Read & Company won the offering, which consists of serial and term bonds.
Yields on the serial bonds range from 4.60 percent on bonds maturing in 1993 to 6.60 percent on securities maturing in 2011.
Term bonds maturing in 2022 were priced to yield 6.72 percent.
The issue is rated AA by both Moody's and Standard & Poor's.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" shows average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates from Aug.-Nov. 1991. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (60%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; STOCKS AND BONDS BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BOND ISSUES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (75%); INSURANCE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (73%); LETTERS OF CREDIT (73%); CITIES (73%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (62%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



722 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Chemical and Hanover Reach Accord With Community Group

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT

 BODY:
The Chemical Bank and the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company have agreed with a New York community group to increase local lending. In return, the group promised not to file a protest that could have delayed the planned year-end merger of the two banks.
Under the agreement with Acorn, as the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now is known, the merged bank, which will operate under the Chemical name, would lend $750 million over the next five years. Carol Parry, managing director at Manufacturers Hanover, said the $750 million would be "a significant increase over what the two banks have been lending." 
 The $750 million program is similar to one announced by the banks in late October, but is much less than a $10 billion lending commitment over 10 years that Acorn sought earlier in the month. The lending will mostly consist of mortgage loans for low- and moderate-income families but will also include loans for small businesses and multifamily housing.
The biggest change toward more lenient credit standards will be in a $10 million mortgage program. The banks will hold the loans themselves, rather than sell them to investors who require tougher credit standards.
For those mortgages, the bank will lend up to 95 percent of a home's value; recognize some nontraditional forms of income, like Government assistance, rent from boarders and food stamps; waive the $250 application fee, and eliminate the one-point mortgage fee if mortgage rates rise to 10 percent or higher.
Related fees for the city's mortgage tax, title search and insurance, lawyers and appraisals would be reduced to an unspecified level. Home buyers would still be required to pay for private mortgage insurance, "if we can find it at a reasonable cost," Ms. Parry said.
All applicants for the $10 million program must attend credit counseling programs conducted by Acorn or other groups.
"Once Chemical and Manufacturers Hanover see the success of their low- and middle-income lending, we think other banks will want to do the same thing, and there could be a significant increase in that kind of lending in New York City," said John L. Kest, chief organizer in New York City for Acorn.
The agreement helps clear the way for a possible approval of the merger by the Dec. 31 target date. If the Federal Reserve approves the deal before the end of this month, the Justice Department will have the 30 days it requires to study any antitrust and competitive aspects of the merger before the end of the year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CHEMICAL BANK (NYC); MANUFACTURERS HANOVER TRUST CO (NYC); ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR REFORM NOW JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); CHEMICAL BANK (58%); ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR REFORM NOW (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHEMICAL BANK (NYC); MANUFACTURERS HANOVER TRUST CO (NYC); ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR REFORM NOW ASSOCIATION OF COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR REFORM NOW (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); MERGERS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CHEMISTRY (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); FAMILY (73%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (63%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



723 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: U.S. May Study, Not Cap, Rates

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Abandoning the idea of a cap on credit card interest rates, House leaders agreed tonight on a measure that would force a Government study to determine whether the rates are too high.
If any measure on credit cards becomes law this year, it is likely to this one. 
 The legislation was worked out primarily by two senior Democrats on the House Banking Committee, Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn and Esteban E. Torres of California, the chairman of the consumer affairs subcommittee. The subcommittee plans to meet Friday to draft the bill.
House leaders rejected the idea of a 14 percent ceiling on credit-card rates, which was approved by the Senate last week. Representatives said they feared the effect of such a cap on shaky banks, on the stock market and on the economy. Many credit card interest rates are now between 18 and 20 percent.
The Schumer-Torres proposal would require a nine- month study by the General Accounting Office, the Government's auditors, to determine whether rates are excessive.
If too little competition is found, the President would have authority to impose a cap 10 percentage points above the six-month average for six- month Treasury bills. At current rates, that would mean credit card interest could be no higher than 15.5 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; INTEREST (MONEY) CREDIT CARDS (94%); LEGISLATION (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); APPROVALS (73%); BANK FAILURES (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); ACCOUNTING (67%); 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



724 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Cascade International's board met in an emergency session and stunned its big investors by announcing that its chairman and chief executive, Victor G. Incendy, had vanished -- leaving investors with red ink and red faces all along Wall Street. [Page A1.] 
 At Coca-Cola, the process of going global is now so extreme and rapid that its business in the U.S. has become secondary. [D1.]
McDonnell Douglas's agreement to sell a large interest in its commercial jetliner business to Taiwan will help the company survive, but it has already revived fears in Congress and elsewhere that the U.S. aerospace industry is mortgaging its future to budding Asian rivals. [D1.] For Boeing, the agreement raises the threat that both of the Seattle aircraft builder's competitors would be government subsidized. [D4.]
Texas Instruments and Hitachi will combine efforts over the next 10 years to design advanced computer memory chips. [D4.]
Chemical Bank and Manufacturers Hanover have agreed with a New York community group to increase local lending. In return, the group promised not to file a protest that could have delayed the planned merger of the two banks. [D3.]
California will open hearings today to develop standards for cleaner-burning gasoline. Unsurprisingly, most oil companies hate the idea. But one, ARCO, is arguing vigorously that the standards state engineers have proposed are too lax. [D6.]
Straight Arrow Publishers is starting a magazine for men that will emphasize adventure, travel and participatory sports. [D19.]
 
The Economy
Builders broke ground for new homes last month at the fastest pace in nearly a year and 7.3 percent above that of September. [D1.]
President Bush sought to strike a cautious new balance in his remarks about the economy, calling it "sluggish," but declining to dwell on its best or worst aspects. [A22.]
The Congressional logjam over banking legislation appeared close to breaking, as members of the House confidently predicted passage of a stripped-down measure. [D1.]
 
International
The Swiss Bank is demanding repayment of a $98.8 million loan to a private company controlled by Robert Maxwell's family. [D1.]
A German telecommunications manufacturer has sold high-speed fiber optic cable to the Soviet Union by using a loophole in Western trade restrictions, industry executives said. [D2.]
The Bush Administration will send about $1.5 billion worth of food aid to the Soviet Union. [A18.]
 
Markets
Stock prices closed mixed. The Dow ended the day down 1.56 points, at 2,930.01. [D10.]
A $1.27 billion offering of New York City bonds was warmly received by investors but the securities were sold at higher interest rates than had been anticipated late last week. [D16.] Yields on both tax-exempt and taxable money market funds fell. [D9.]
The dollar advanced on world currency markets but trading was light as dealers turned their attention to Wall Street. [D17.]
Wheat prices soared on reports that the Bush Administration would offer the Soviet Union a food assistance package that would include large amounts of American wheat. [D17.]
 
Today's Columns
B.C.C.I.'s fall has prompted a global effort to try to limit losses suffered by depositors and the man in charge, Brian Smouha of Touche Ross, is a veteran asset hunter. Business and the Law. [D2.]
Investors have been rewared by companies that distribute chips and other electronic components. Market Place. [D10.]
McCaffrey & McCall in New York is losing its top creative executive to Earle Palmer Brown. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (58%); BOEING CO (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (56%); CHEMICAL BANK (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); AIRCRAFT MFG (76%); REAL ESTATE (76%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (74%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); MERGERS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (73%); CHEMICALS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); COMPUTER CHIPS (68%); BANKING LAW (67%); MEN (64%); CURRENCIES (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); MEMORY CHIPS (53%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (53%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (51%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



725 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-18
 
WINTER STRAINS SOVIET BUDGET
President Mikhail S. Gorbachev appealed to a shrunken Soviet Parliament to spend money it does not have to get through the winter. The Russian republic refused. Page A1
 
The United States promised Moscow $1.5 billion worth of food aid. A18
 

GRISLY SCENE IN CROATIAN CITY
After 86 days of fighting, the Yugoslav city of Vukovar is a wasteland of gutted homes and churches, burning storefronts and bullet-riddled bodies. Victorious Serbs take aim at windows and pigeons. A1
 
U.S. TO COMPENSATE IRAN
The United States is nearing an agreement to pay $275 million to Iran, State Department officials said. The money is compensation for undelivered American-made military equipment dating from before Iran's 1979 revolution. A1
 
DISPUTE ON BOMBING CULPRIT
Israeli officials say their analysts are convinced that Palestinian terrorists based in Syria -- and not Libyan agents, as asserted by the United States -- bear primary responsibility for the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. A14
 
U.S. official insists no evidence links Iran or Syria to the bombing. A14
 
A freed American hostage offers new details about his captivity. A14
 
An Islamic faction says Israel's prisoners are a separate issue. A14
 
U.S. SHIFTS FLEEING HAITIANS
Citing humanitarian concerns, the Coast Guard began transferring hundreds of Haitian refugees from cutters to a big troop ship. A3
 
TOUGH TACTICS WITH QUEBEC
Canada's Prime Minister is trying a blunt approach with Quebec, warning that if it goes its own way, the rest of the country would insure that it suffers economically. A3
 
U.S. WARNS NORTH KOREA
American and South Korean defense officials met for high-level talks and warned North Korea that its "nuclear arms program must be stopped in advance without fail." A6
 
CAMBODIAN PRINCE IS PRESIDENT
Prince Norodom Sihanouk was declared Cambodia's President in a move that was clearly intended to foil the Khmer Rouge in its hopes of returning to power. A12
 
Poland's largest political bloc: frustrated people who don't vote. A11
 
In salty language, U.S. Ambassador to Kenya assails abuses. A9
 
NATIONAL A20-24, B14, D21-23
 
NEW TURN ON RIGHTS BILL
In signing the recently passed civil rights bill today, President Bush is also expected to direct all Federal agencies to phase out regulations authorizing the use of racial preferences in hiring and promotions. The order will reverse Federal regulatory policies dating from 1965. A1
 
BUSH AND THE ABORTION ISSUE
News analysis: The President won another fight on abortion this week, but in the coming year that issue will pose many tests for him. A22
 
Buchanan said the White House was trying to link him to Duke. A22
 
Bush sought a cautious new balance in talking of the economy. A22
 
Housing starts soared in October, the Government reported. D1
 
'DEEP REMORSE' BY CRANSTON
Alan Cranston rose before his colleagues on the Senate floor and accepted the Senate Ethics Committee's rebuke for his aid to the savings and loan executive Charles H. Keating Jr. But he insisted that his conduct had been little different from that of most lawmakers. A1
 
CONGRESS PUSHES ON
Lawmakers continued to struggle toward their goal of a pre-Thanksgiving adjournment, acting further on unemployment benefits and preparing for battles on F.D.I.C. financing and the savings and loan bailout. D23
 
The Senate confirmed William Barr as Attorney General. D23
 
COMPANY CHAIRMAN DISAPPEARS
Cascade International, a fast-growing chain of women's clothing shops, stunned its major investors by announcing that its chairman and chief executive, Victor G. Incendy, had vanished. A1
 
FETUS-TO-FETUS TRANSPLANT
Tissue from an aborted fetus has been transplanted to a live fetus and appears to have relieved a deadly genetic defect, researchers said. The technique may have wide application for genetic disorders. B14
 
A TRAIL OF DRUGS
A former leader of the Medellin drug cartel testified at the Noriega trial that top Cuban and Nicaraguan officials helped smuggle cocaine into the United States in the 1980's. A20
 
American Jews are increasingly at odds with Shamir. D23
 
Dr. Kevorkian lost his medical license for assisting in suicides. D22
 
METROPOLITAN Digest, B1
 
CONVICTIONS IN 'GAY BASHING'
In a case that galvanized homosexuals in New York City, a Queens jury convicted two young men of murder in the killing of a man who was beaten with a hammer and stabbed with a knife because, prosecutors said, he was gay. The prosecutors had called it a savage "gay bashing" spree. A1
 
BUSINESS DIGEST D1
 
The Home Section
From kitchen waste springs garden gold. C1
At a London exhibition, all rooms are a stage. C1
The Malibu house that starred in a car commercial. C1
 
Arts/Entertainment
National Book Awards winners announced. C15 Masur, as just plain Kurt, meets the public. C15
Dance: New Peter Martins work.C15
 
Sports B16-23
DESIGNER BOOT CAMP
Tennis camps are costly, physically demanding, and often separate a child from his family. But they have become the preferred route to success and stardom in the sport, and children as young as 10 years old are flocking to them from all over the country. Page A1
Baseball: Pendleton wins M.V.P. B17
Basketball: Knicks beat Mavericks. B17
 
Obituaries D24
Cedric Sandiford, a victim of racial attack in Howard Beach
Jacob I. Hartstein, a leader of Yeshiva's expansion
 
Editorials/Op-Ed
Editorials A26
Too hasty, harsh on Haitians.
 A parody of banking reform.
Tears for East Timor.
The Keating One Hundred.
Letters A26
Tom Wicker: Another such victory. A27
William Safire: Absorbing the outsiders. A27
Eston Barak Mbajah: My brother, slain in Kenya. A27
Robert Potts: Who asked a favor? Who wrote the law? A27

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince Sihanouk is declared President of Cambodia. Page A12. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HAITI (92%); CROATIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KENYA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (69%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); CAMBODIA (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); HAITI (92%); CROATIA (92%); SYRIA (92%); CANADA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); KENYA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); POLAND (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (69%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BOMBINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REFUGEES (77%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TERRORISM (73%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); RELIGION (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (64%); ABORTION (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



726 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Transfers Haitians to Base in Cuba

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
The Coast Guard today began transferring hundreds of Haitian refugees from its cutters patrolling the Caribbean onto a large troop ship anchored at the United States Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba.
The shift, made for what the Navy and the Coast Guard called humanitarian reasons, means that up to 800 or so of the nearly 1,800 recently rescued Haitian boat people now crammed into 15 cutters can be kept in more hospitable accommodations. The amphibious landing ship Tortuga is equipped with extensive medical installations and sleeping berths. 
 Earlier today, Rear Adm. William P. Leahy Jr. of the Coast Guard told a Congressional subcommittee that his cutters would be loaded to capacity with fleeing Haitians within the next two days, and would be unable to rescue any more refugees at sea.
 
Timing of Exodus
 Congress has become increasingly uneasy with the Bush Administration's policies on Haiti and its attitude toward political asylum for Haitians fleeing that country after the military coup that overthrew the democratically elected Government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sept. 30.
But the latest wave of refugees fleeing Haiti did not begin in earnest until a month later, and questions about the timing of the new exodus were left unresolved by today's hearing. Speculation in Washington is that many Haitians were waiting to see whether Father Aristide would soon be restored to power, or for the effects of an international economic boycott of Haiti to begin to be felt.
This morning, Immigration and Naturalization Service said at least 2,819 Haitians had been intercepted at sea since October. Of this number, the immigration service said, at least 1,781 refugees remained on Coast Guard cutters. Of 447 Haitians held at the United States Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba, the immigration service said, 350 were flown today to Honduras and Venezuela. The agency said only 53 had been taken to Miami to apply for asylum.
 
20 Picked Up Wednesday
 For the last several day, the Coast Guard has estimated a higher figure, about 3,000, for the number Haitians picked up at sea. Coast Guard officials said tonight that at least 20 Haitians had been intercepted today, compared with nearly 650 on Tuesday, when a Federal judge in Miami ordered a temporary stay of forced repatriation pending a formal hearing on the interdiction policy scheduled for Monday.
The State Department says there have been no reports of retribution or persecution of any of the 538 Haitians returned to Port-au-Prince on Monday and Tuesday before the stay was issued. Human-rights groups challenge that assertion by questioning the sources of information on which the United States Embassy in Haiti relies, particularly the Haitian Red Cross, which they describe as unable to defy the military Government.
Admiral Leahy said his 15 cutters, nearly half the East Coast fleet, had to be taken off normal patrol and narcotics-interception duties to pick up refugees in what he described as a humanitarian process that was saving many from drowning. But even with the interdiction policy in force, officials say that as many as half the Haitians who attempt the voyage die at sea.

GRAPHIC: Photo: More than 500 Haitian refugees were returned to Port-au-Prince early this week before a temporary stay of forced repatriation was ordered. Red Cross workers helped a sick refugee from a U.S. Coast Guard cutter. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONDURAS (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: COAST GUARD (USCG) US COAST GUARD (94%); US COAST GUARD (94%); US NAVY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST GUARD (USCG) US COAST GUARD (94%); US COAST GUARD (94%); US NAVY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; GUANTANAMO (CUBA) HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CUBA (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); HONDURAS (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; IMMIGRATION AND EMIGRATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS REFUGEES (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); NAVIES (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); COUPS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); BOYCOTTS (68%); JUDGES (67%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



727 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Roundup;
Lawmakers Pare Agenda for a Push

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Congress continued to struggle tonight toward its goal of a pre-Thanksgiving adjournment, acting on extended unemployment benefits and preparing for crucial battles over continued financing for the depleted bank insurance fund and the savings and loan bailout.
Leaders from both parties met tonight and agreed on a short list of bills they considered essential, and the first test of their list will come on Thursday when the House votes on putting more money into the nearly insolvent bank insurance fund. 
 Congressional aides said they agreed that four other difficult items had to be on the agenda. They included legislation providing new money for the Resolution Trust Corporation, which deals with insolvent savings and loans, and a new version of the $205 billion spending bill for a variety of domestic programs; President Bush vetoed the first version of the bill over a measure on abortion counseling and the veto was sustained on Thursday.
They agreed they had to squeeze an agreement out of a House-Senate conference on the six-year $151 billion budget for transportation, and, if possible, to wring out an agreement on anti-crime legislation that has not yet even gone to conference.
 
Jobless Benefits
 Congress took all but final action on a major bill that had provided Democrats with political ammunition against President Bush since July, the effort to give extended unemployment benefits to workers idled by the recession for more than half a year.
It acted on a $5.4 billion bill that would give those workers either 13 or 20 weeks of benefits. The states where unemployed workers can now get up to 20 weeks of benefits are Alaska, Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, Mississippi, New Jersey, Rhode Island and West Virginia. Workers in the rest of the country would be eligible for up to 13 weeks.
After bitter dispute from Senators saying their states were shortchanged under an earlier version, last Friday the Senate passed the new bill, along with one extending benefits to workers in any state who had exhausted their regular 26 weeks of jobless benefits at any time since March 1.
The Administration backed these provisions, which replaced versions in which workers in 23 states could only get six weeks of benefits and those in 18 states could only get extra benefits if they exhausted their regular benefits after last Sunday. It said the provisions would only cost an additional $380 million, most of which would be offset by shortening the program by three weeks.
There was only brief debate before the House passed the bill today, 407 to 21. Representative Bill Archer, Republican of Texas, complained that the new bill would provide too much aid in states where "jobs are readily available on every corner."
Representative Thomas J. Downey, the Suffolk Democrat who was the chief advocate of the legislation for several months, said of the repeated attempts to pass the bill, which President Bush killed twice, "We had to do it four times to get it right."
The bill was sent to the Senate, and a very quick House-Senate conference on differing details was expected.
 
Trade Benefits
 A measure to provide enhanced trade status for two East European nations and the former Baltic states was passed, with hardly any debate, as part of the unemployment bill.
The measure, also endorsed by the Administration, would provide Most Favored Nation Status for Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and would reduce tariffs on imports from those nations. It was accompanied by another bill that would award that status to the Soviet Union, which acknowledged the independence of the Baltic states from it last summer.
The House vote on favored trade status for the Soviet Union was 350 to 78. No serious opposition is expected in the Senate.
 
Pentagon Spending
 Two major spending bills are still on the calendar, but the House today passed one of them, providing $270 billion for the Department of Defense. There was little debate over the bill, which closely resembled the Pentagon budget passed earlier in the week in imposing severe limits on spending for the B-2, or Stealth bomber. The bill passed on a voice vote and was sent to the Senate.
But some question remained about how the House would deal with the $205 billion spending bill for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. President Bush vetoed the bill because it sought to void an Adminsitration regulation barring family planning clinics that receive Federal funds from discussing abortion with patients.
The veto was sustained Tuesday, but advocates of abortion rights today delayed any effort to bring up a new bill without that provision. Even so, Representative William H. Natcher, the Kentucky Democrat who is chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee, which handled the measure, said he would advance a bill that did not includethe provision. "We're just waiting for the leaders to tell us when," he said in an interview.
 
Intelligence Programs
 Both houses passed legislation establishing intelligence programs for the current year, calling for future disclosure of the overall spending levels on intelligence.
But in the bill that was sent to President Bush tonight the spending limits in various programs remained classified, with lawmakers saying only that they were slightly below the levels requested by the Administration.
The bill also set up several hurdles before the Central Intelligence Agency could move certain operations from Virginia to West Virginia, a shift favored by Senator Robert C. Byrd, the West Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee, but opposed by lawmakers from Virginia.
Before a move could take place, the C.I.A. would have to report to the House and Senate Intelligence Committees on alternative sites, and describe how the shift would affect its personnel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INTELLIGENCE SERVICES; FINANCES UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (75%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); ABORTION (53%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM GEORGE W BUSH (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



728 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Planning $1.5 Billion in Food Aid To Soviet Peoples Through Moscow

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Amid rising concern about possible hunger and civil unrest in the Soviet Union this winter, the Bush Administration announced today that it would send about $1.5 billion worth of food aid, most of which would be channeled through the central Government in Moscow.
The announcement, which followed weeks of delay, included the first large-scale American shipments of free food to the Soviet Union in seven decades. 
 The action is part of a broadening Western effort to help the Soviet Union. The United States has already given $2.5 billion worth of food credits in the last 11 months, almost all of which has been delivered. Japan, the European Community and individual Western European countries have made separate pledges of aid in recent months, but so far have delivered very little.
All of these aid efforts are driven by concerns of food shortages and the possible collapse of new democratic institutions in the Soviet Union this winter. But these efforts are complicated by weakening economies and growing government budget deficits across much of the industrialized world, particularly in the United States.
 
Farm States Back Aid
 The aid package announced today is distinct from discussions in Congress over whether to use $1 billion from the military budget to help the Soviet Union. The announcement today is linked only indirectly to negotiations in Moscow concerning ways to help the Soviet Union with its foreign debt, variously estimated at $60 billion to $100 billion.
Congressional reaction today was divided on regional rather than party lines, with legislators from farm states favoring more aid and other legislators tending to worry that existing aid may already be excessive.
Representative David R. Nagle, an Iowa Democrat on the Agriculture Committee, said in a telephone interview that the Administration's aid plan today was "too little, too late" and added, "We haven't given them enough to get through a couple weeks."
But Representative Charles E. Bennett, the Florida Democrat who is vice chairman of the Armed Services Committee, criticized the deal for not requiring the Soviet Union to barter or sell oil or other natural resources in exchange for food. "The U.S. taxpayer shouldn't have to give a charitable gift if the Russians have the wherewithal," to buy the grain, Mr. Bennett said in a telephone interview.
 
Rationing in St. Petersburg
 In another indication of Soviet food shortages, Anatoly Sobchak, the Mayor of St. Petersburg, announced today that all types of food would be rationed beginning on Dec. 15 because the city has been receiving only half the food it needs, Reuters reported from Moscow, citing local journalists. Some American officials have worried for weeks that urban areas will suffer first from hunger this winter because farmers are refusing to sell their crops for rapidly devaluing rubles.
Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan told reporters at the White House today that the United States would guarantee $1.25 billion worth of commercial bank loans for the purchase of American grain, and would provide $165 million worth of free food, mainly through private voluntary organizations.
The Agriculture Department is negotiating with the United Way, CARE, World Vision Relief and the Seventh-day Adventists to distribute the food, said a department official who insisted on anonymity.
In addition, a much smaller but still undetermined amount of money will be used to build a model farm in the St. Petersburg area, construct model wholesale food markets near Moscow and Kiev, send American agricultural extension workers and provide credit guarantees for loans to private Soviet-American ventures in Soviet food processing and distribution, Mr. Madigan said.
 
Helping U.S. Farmers
 The program will help American farmers and "is aimed at alleviating food shortages and other dire humanitarian consequences in the Soviet Union this winter," Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said. Only the food grants and technical aid projects will result in direct outlays by the Federal Government, he pointed out.
All of the credit guarantees will go to Vneshekonombank, the Soviet central bank for foreign trade. But each of the 12 remaining Soviet republics has also accepted responsibility for the debt's repayment if the central Government or the other republics are unable to do so, Mr. Madigan said.
A detailed plan has been worked out for the amounts of food each republic will actually receive, Mr. Madigan added. The plan was intended to reassure conservatives who have warned that the central Government is not credit worthy and will use the threat of withholding food as a lever to compel the obedience from republics.
These arrangements did not initially satisfy some conservative critics.
"This appears to be a thinly disguised scheme to continue U.S. taxpayer loan guarantees to a discredited Moscow center that is totally uncredit-worthy," said Roger W. Robinson Jr., who was the National Security Council's senior director for international economic affairs from 1982 to 1985.
 
Issue of Credit Worthiness
 Federal law bars agricultural loan guarantees to countries that are not credit worthy. Mr. Madigan said that this rule was met by the agreement by the Soviet central Government, Vneshekonombank and the 12 republics to take responsibility for repayment.
Some of the credit guarantees will only be available if the Soviet Union makes payments falling due soon on previous loans already guaranteed, Mr. Madigan said.
The program announced today by Mr. Madigan calls for $500 million in credit guarantees to be made available immediately, followed by $250 million aid packages in February, March and April.
A confidential Agriculture Department study has found that while the Soviet transportation system may be clogged with deliveries of European food in January and February, very little grain has been committed for delivery in December.
 
Grain Shipment Scheduled
 The last grain from the most recent American assistance program, $1.5 billion in credit guarantees granted in June, is scheduled for shipment at the beginning of next month. If a new aid package had not been approved this week, some of this transportation capacity might have been wasted.
Franklyn D. Holzman, professor emeritus of economics at Tufts University, said the Soviet Union had paid a small percentage of the cost of the food it received from the United States during World War II. The announcement today represents the first time that the United States Government has given free food to the Soviet Union since Herbert Hoover oversaw a $20 million program right after World War I, Mr. Holzman said.
The bread lines and panic buying of food in the Soviet Union are the result of both production and distribution problems there, American officials say.
 
Grain Production Drops
 The Agriculture Secretary said for the first time in Congressional testimony on Oct. 30 that while food distribution in the Soviet Union is a serious problem, a decline in grain production this year has also become a crucial factor in a substantial Soviet need for food imports this winter.
Nearly two weeks later, on Nov. 12, the Agriculture Department reduced its estimate of this year's Soviet grain harvest to just 175 million metric tons. Last month the department estimated a crop of 185 million metric tons, and in August and September the prediction was 190 million metric tons.
Soviet crops in recent years have been close to 200 million metric tons, while last year's near-record crop totaled 235 million metric tons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FOOD; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AGRICULTURE (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); CITIES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (64%); WRITERS (60%); DEVALUATION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) EDWARD R MADIGAN (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



729 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Rebounding From Criticism on Economy, Bush Seeks More Stable Ground

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
President Bush sought today to strike a cautious new balance in his public remarks about the economy, apparently mindful of recent statements that experts say helped send a key barometer of the stock market skidding by more than 160 points in two sessions of trading over the last five days.
In a brief interview with reporters for six NBC-owned television stations, the President called the economy "sluggish," but declined to emphasize either its best or worst aspects. 
 "I think more than anyone else in the country, obviously, that if the President misspeaks or sounds euphorically optimistic or overly pessimistic, you send the wrong signals to a skittish market and to the people," Mr. Bush said. "So I'm trying to say, 'Look, we're in tough times; they're going to get better.' "
 
Placing Blame on Congress
 Mr. Bush repeated an accusation from his recent political speeches around the country: that Congress's refusal to enact his legislative program of banking overhaul and a capital gains tax cut was responsible for the stubbornness of the economic downturn. He picked up again on those themes in an appearance here tonight at a $1,000-a-plate fund-raising banquet that pushed his 1992 campaign chest up $1.2 million, to more than $5 million.
During the interview with the television reporters Mr. Bush placed blame for the recession on Democratic Administrations and Congresses of more than two decades ago. He asserted that the enactment of "well-intentioned" legislation in the 1960's had helped to create the "extraordinarily high deficits" that he said were now crippling the economy. The reference was apparently to the social welfare programs that were central to President Lyndon B. Johnson's "Great Society."
Mr. Bush's comments were the latest effort to find stable political ground on the economy, whose weakness has thrown the White House and the President's unannounced re-election campaign off stride.
Mr. Bush's reticence about solutions for the downturn underscores his difficulty in finding a strong campaign theme in economic hard times. Instead of taking advantage of his role as an incumbent President, Mr. Bush has appeared to be hemmed in by it lately.
The Dow Jones industrial average plummeted 120.31 points last Friday, some said because Congress had taken a cue from Mr. Bush and moved toward passing legislation that would limit interest rates on consumer credit cards, a major source of banks' income. At the last minute, the President had inserted language into a New York political speech and called on credit-card issuers to lower their rates. But the White House later said he opposed mandatory ceilings on such rates.
After steadying itself on Monday, the Dow, the most closely watched barometer of market activity, dropped again on Tuesday, by 41.15 points, after Mr. Bush said that the economy was basically sound and that he planned no legislative initiatives that would seek to alter existing policies "radically." Analysts later said the President's remarks had dismayed investors, who were looking for a stronger response to the downturn.
 
Little Comment on Debate
 Mr. Bush has declined to comment as blame was being fixed on him in the two declines. But he has noted that he was given little credit when stock prices rose to record levels earlier this year.
Mr. Bush's advisers have waged a continuing debate over whether he should try to look more Presidential, pressing his own solutions for the economy at the risk of having a Democratic Congress reject them, or whether he should simply allow Congress to dither and then blame it for the economic sluggishness. So far, Mr. Bush appears to be following the latter course.
In today's interview, the President said repeatedly that he knew some people were suffering economically and that he was not complacent about finding new ways to stimulate growth. But he also said that he did not plan to propose any significant new economic programs before his State of the Union Message in mid-January.
Nor will Mr. Bush seek to hold Congress in session past its scheduled adjournment next week to try to force votes on more of the six legislative proposals in the White House's economic program, his spokesman, Marlin Fitzwater, said today.
"They don't need the President to hold them in to get them to do something," Mr. Fitzwater said. "It's not a schoolhouse full of kids up there. If they're going to act, they ought to act."
Mr. Bush and Mr. Fitzwater also denounced as "crazy" and "foolish" a number of news reports, including one published today in The New York Times, that have described the President's re-election campaign as being in a state of political limbo while internal arguments rage over the economy and leadership of the 1992 effort.
Those reports said that Mr. Bush had failed to contact important political advisers about taking jobs on his re-election staff and that some of those advisers were becoming increasingly reluctant to serve in a campaign that may be controlled by the White House's brusque chief of staff, John H. Sununu. Today, the President twice expressed his support for Mr. Sununu, and Mr. Fitzwater denied that any advisers were considering bowing out of the campaign.
The President also said that he would not debate any Republicans who seek to challenge him in the Presidential primaries this spring. Two Republicans on Mr. Bush's right have indicated that they may contest his renomination: the political commentator Patrick J. Buchanan and David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard who lost a runoff last Saturday for Louisiana governor.
The White House also said that Mr. Bush had rescheduled a 10-day trip to four Pacific nations that was postponed after this month's elections. He plans to visit Australia, Singapore, South Korea and Japan from Dec. 30 to Jan. 10, Mr. Fitzwater said.
The President insisted then that he had postponed the visits only because Congress appeared likely to remain in session for part of the time he was to be away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (51%); DOW JONES & CO INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CREDIT CARDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); NETWORK TELEVISION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); CONSUMER LENDING (67%); FUNDRAISING (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (60%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (52%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



730 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: 7 More Patients Accuse Doctor of Botching Their Abortions

BYLINE: By LISA BELKIN

 BODY:
The Lower East Side doctor who the police say severed the right arm of a fetus while performing an illegal abortion was accused by seven patients yesterday of botching their abortions, authorities said.
In addition, the obstetrician, Dr. Abu Hayat, was the subject of a civil malpractice suit earlier this year in which a judgment was found against him. The other seven cases were reported by women who called a police hot line after they heard of Dr. Hayat's arrest on Tuesday, the police said. 
 Dr. Hayat, 61 years old, of Manhattan, was released without bond late yesterday afternoon after being charged with performing an illegal third trimester abortion on 20-year-old Rosa Rodriguez.
 
'Danger to Public Health'
 Peter Slocum, a spokesman for the New York State Health Department, said the agency was investigating Dr. Hayat and has the authority to suspend his license if officials "determine that the physician poses an imminent danger to public health."
The investigation could take several weeks, Mr. Slocum said. Until it is complete, he said, Dr. Hayat "could go back to work tomorrow."
Dr. Hayat did not return telephone calls to his office and his home. His Women's Medical Clinic at 9 Avenue A was closed yesterday.
A lawyer involved in the malpractice suit said Dr. Hayat had filed for bankruptcy on Monday. He also said that Dr. Hayat did not have malpractice insurance.
At a news conference yesterday afternoon, Miss Rodriguez described the events that brought her to that clinic on Oct. 25 and that led to the mutilation of her daughter, Ana Rosa, who was born alive but missing her arm. The baby, who weighed three pounds one ounce at birth, is in critical condition at New York University Hospital.
 
A Calm Voice
 Miss Rodriguez spoke in Spanish, in a soft, calm voice, and her remarks were translated by a legal assistant at the law firm of Trolman & Glaser, where the news conference was held and which is representing her at no charge. A small woman, about five feet tall, she said she did not look pregnant when she went to Dr. Hayat's clinic and she thought she was only three to four months into her pregnancy.
Miss Rodriguez is unemployed and the unmarried mother of a 2-year-old daughter, and she lives with her mother in Queens. She sought the abortion, she said, because she did not feel she could support a second child.
She said she found Dr. Hayat's telephone number in an advertisement in the Spanish-language newspaper El Diario, an advertisement that continued to appear yesterday. She chose his clinic, she said, because it had a Queens area code and she wanted to remain close to home, but when she made an appointment and arrived at the address she had been given, there was no clinic. Instead, she was taken by taxi to Dr. Hayat's office in Manhattan. She did not say who called the taxi.
Once she arrived at the clinic, she said Dr. Hayat performed no tests to determine how far along she was in her pregnancy. After an internal pelvic examination, she said, Dr. Hayat told her she was correct in her estimate that she was between her 12th and 16th week of pregnancy.
Doctors now estimate she was in her 32d or 34th week, her lawyer, Jeffrey Lichtman, said.
New York State law prohibits abortions after the 24th week of pregnancy unless the health of the mother is threatened or the fetus has congenital defects that mean it will not survive. Under the law, a woman is not responsible for having an illegal abortion; the doctor bears sole responsibility.
No sonogram test was done to confirm the fetus's age, Miss Rodriguez said. In fact, she said, she did not see any machines in the office. An officer present at the arrest of Dr. Hayat described the clinic as "filthy" and said there was no sonogram equipment.
Dr. Hakin Elahi, medical director for the Margaret Sanger Center, which is the Manhattan clinic for Planned Parenthood of New York City, said yesterday that "accepted medical practice requires a sonogram after 12 weeks."
After the examination, Miss Rodriguez said, Dr. Hayat told her to return the next day and he would perform the abortion.
When she returned, Miss Rodriguez said, she was having second thoughts about whether to have the abortion. She had felt the baby moving inside her, she said, and wondered whether to go through with her pregnancy. But, she said, Dr. Hayat pressured her to have the procedure.
 
$1,500 for the Abortion
 Mr. Lichtman said his client was charged $1,500 for the abortion. He said she paid $1,000 in cash and gave her passport, green card and some jewelry as collateral for the other $500. Planned Parenthood typically charges from $300 to $500 for an abortion.
Miss Rodriguez said Dr. Hayat gave her an anesthetic and she awoke later to find blood on her leg. Dr. Hayat, she said, told her there was nothing to worry about. Mr. Lichtman said that Dr. Hayat told his client that the abortion was incomplete and instructed her to go home and return the next day. Miss Rodriguez said the doctor told her that if she felt pain that evening she should not go to the hospital or seek other help but should instead call his assistant, who he said was a registered nurse.
Miss Rodriguez said she did feel pain that evening and called the assistant. The assistant said she would call Dr. Hayat. The assistant called back, saying she had spoken to Dr. Hayat and said the pains were normal and would subside, Miss Rodriquez said.
Later that evening, when Miss Rodriguez's mother, Ana, came home, her daughter told her about the pain. The two women went to Jamaica Hospital by taxi. Five hours later, the baby, Ana Rosa, was born, her arm severed below her right shoulder.
The Manhattan District Attorney's office is also investigating charges that Dr. Hayat fondled a patient during an examination. That sexual-abuse investigation is being conducted by Linda Fairstein, chief of the District Attorney's sex crimes unit. She will also handle the investigation of the Rodriguez case.
 
Investigating Complaints
 Ms. Fairstein said her office is encouraging women who believe they were mistreated by Dr. Hayat to come forward. "We will investigate any complaints against him," she said.
Law-enforcement officials would not give specifics about the accusations of the seven women who came forward yesterday. But they said that all the complaints could be documented because all the women sought other medical help after seeing Dr. Hayat.
The eighth woman, Clara Robles-Veliz, has gone public with her accusations. Last year she filed a malpractice suit against Dr. Hayat saying he perforated her uterus and cervix during an incomplete abortion during her 12th week of pregnancy in 1988. Dr. Hayat never responded to the suit, according to her lawyer, Irv Gertel, and was found guilty by default. Dr. Hayat challenged the default finding, Mr. Gertel said, but the New York State Supreme Court ruled that the finding should stand.
A settlement hearing was scheduled for this spring, Mr. Gertel said, but before the hearing Dr. Hayat declared Chapter 11 bankruptcy, asking for a rescheduling of his debts. On Monday of this week, Mr. Gertel said, Dr. Hayat filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, asking that all his debts be discharged.
Mr. Gertel said the expected settlement in a case would be "hundreds of thousand of dollars."
Mr. Gertel and Mr. Lichtman said Dr. Hayat does not have malpractice insurance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rosa Rodriguez at news conference yesterday as she described the attempted abortion procedure at the Women's Medical Clinic that, she said, led to her giving birth to a baby whose arm was missing. With her was her lawyer, Jeffrey Lichtman. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; MALPRACTICE; MALPRACTICE INSURANCE ABORTION (92%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (78%); WOMEN (78%); LAWYERS (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (62%); SINGLE PARENTS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: HAYAT, ABU (DR); BELKIN, LISA; RODRIGUEZ, ANA ROSA; RODRIGUEZ, ROSA

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



731 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1439 words

HEADLINE: Former Smuggler Ties Top Officials Of Cuba and Nicaragua to Drug Ring

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Senior Cuban and Nicaraguan officials, including the brother of Fidel Castro, helped the Medellin cartel smuggle cocaine into the United States during the mid-1980's, a founding member of the Colombian drug group testified here today.
In his second day of testimony at the Federal Court trial of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega, the witness, Carlos Lehder Rivas, said he met twice in Havana with Gen. Raul Castro, Cuba's Minister of Defense, to gain permission for cocaine shipments to fly over Cuban territory on their way to Florida. 
 Later, Mr. Lehder also said, the cartel organized a cocaine smuggling route out of Nicaragua with the approval of Sandinista leaders and the assistance of Cuba's top intelligence operative in Managua.
For at least a decade, there have been reports that Cuban and Sandinista officials were working with the cartel, and the Reagan and Bush Administrations have said so in arguing that the two Latin American governments should be isolated. But until Mr. Lehder took the stand today, no leader of the Medellin cartel had ever made such assertions publicly. It is difficult to determine how the jury will assess Mr. Lehder's credibility. No documentary evidence was introduced to corroborate his assertions.
 
'Cubans Were in Charge'
 "The Cubans were in charge of that cocaine conspiracy in Nicaragua," Mr. Lehder testified, in English. He said he attended several meetings in Managua in his role as head of the cartel's transportation operations. "It was not the Sandinista Government, it was the Cubans" who were in charge of organizing and running the cocaine smuggling network from Nicaragua to the United States, he said.
As a result of discussions with the Cuban and Nicaraguan governments, the cartel "did fly cocaine through Nicaragua" in 1984, Mr. Lehder testified. He said the cartel was required to pay both governments, but he did not specify the amount paid and did not say whether payments were made to the national treasury of each country or to individuals.
Mr. Lehder said the cartel turned to Nicaragua as an alternative to General Noriega, who he said had become increasingly greedy and demanding.
Mr. Lehder's politically explosive account of the Medellin cartel's dealings with the two Latin American governments that were most hostile to the United States in the 1980's came during questioning about the drug-related activities of General Noriega, the former Panamanian dictator who is being tried here on 10 counts of cocaine trafficking, money laundering and racketeering, and it had an immediate impact. At the conclusion of Mr. Lehder's questioning by an assistant United States attorney, Guy Lewis, just before noon, Judge William M. Hoeveler ordered a recess until Thursday.
Judge Hoeveler took that unexpected action after a private conference requested by Frank A. Rubino, chief counsel for General Noriega. Mr. Rubino was not available this afternoon for comment on the delay, but the timing made it clear that the recess had been granted at his request and that he was not prepared for cross-examination.
Mr. Lehder, one of nine founding members of the Medellin cartel, was captured by the Colombian authorities in a raid on his jungle stronghold in February 1987 and was immediately handed over to the United States, where he was wanted on 11 counts of cocaine trafficking and racketeering. After a 1988 trial in Jacksonville, Fla., he was found guilty and sentenced to life plus 135 years in prison.
Since then, Mr. Lehder, who is now 42, has been kept in solitary confinement in the maximum security wing of the Federal Penitentiary in Marion, Ill. In August, however, he agreed to testify against General Noriega in hope of receiving a reduced sentence and a transfer to a less harsh prison.
Mr. Lehder said today that he was, in fact, moved out of Marion after signing a plea agreement with prosecutors one week before General Noriega's trial began. He also acknowledged that eight members of his family had been flown to the United States, apparently to protect them from possible vengeance by professional assassins in the pay of the Medellin cartel.
 
Tumbled From Power
 Previous witnesses in this trial have described Mr. Lehder as a man given to violent outbursts of irrational behavior, and Colombian Government officials have said he was a heavy user of cocaine during most of the 1980's.
At the peak of his power, Mr. Lehder was reputed to be a billionaire and commanded both a private army and a neo-Nazi political party that called for the extermination of Communists.
Asked to respond to Mr. Lehder's testimony, Ariel Ricardo, a spokesman for the Cuban Interests Section in Washington, this afternoon dismissed the case against General Noriega as "more a political show than a real trial."
"If I was Carlos Lehder and I received the same sweet deal from the prosecutors that he received, I could say practically anything, too," Mr. Ricardo said.
Sandinista leaders, whose party lost the Presidential election in 1990, did not respond to a telephone call to party headquarters in Managua.
 
'Several Visits' Recalled
 Mr. Lehder said he made "several visits" to Cuba in 1981 and 1982, a time when he was managing a cocaine trafficking route in the Bahamas. In Havana, he said, he met with Raul Castro and Col. Antonio de la Guardia Font, a Ministry of the Interior official in charge of operations to circumvent the United States economic embargo of Cuba, and reached an agreement allowing cartel aircraft to pass through Cuban air space "if necessary."
In May 1984, Mr. Lehder said, he and four other top leaders of the cartel fled to Nicaragua after being implicated in the assassination of Colombia's Minister of Justice. The cartel leaders were able to take refuge there, he said, "because of our Managua connection," whom he named as Federico Vaughn, an aide to Tomas Borge Martinez, a founder of the Sandinista National Liberation Front who was then Nicaragua's Minister of the Interior.
But "the coordinator" of the cocaine trafficking operation that was soon set up in Nicaragua, Mr. Lehder said, was Manuel Pineiro Losada, a senior Cuban intelligence official. "The Nicaraguans wouldn't move a finger without his cooperation," he said.
Officially, Mr. Pineiro is head of the Americas Department of the Central Committee of the Cuban Communist Party. But officials of United States and Latin American intelligence agencies have identified him as the top spymaster in the Western Hemisphere for the D.G.I., which Mr. Lehder described as "the Cuban K.G.B."
Mr. Lehder said the cocaine trafficking route from Nicaragua was needed because cartel leaders were quarreling with General Noriega, whom they regarded as greedy and treacherous. "Noriega wanted to become more a participant and beneficiary in cartel business," Mr. Lehder said, and was demanding "a bigger piece of the pie" for allowing the cartel to manufacture and ship cocaine from Panama.
When Mr. Pineiro learned of the dispute, Mr. Lehder testified, "he emphatically said violence should be avoided" and offered Cuban assistance in mediating the matter. Eventually, Mr. Lehder said, the disagreement was settled in Havana, with Fidel Castro "acting on behalf of Officer Manuel Noriega" and a former President of Colombia, Alfonso Lopez Michelsen, representing the interests of the cartel.
By mentioning both of the Castro brothers, Mr. Lehder's account cast new light on the 1989 Havana show trial of Gen. Arnaldo Ochoa Sanchez, a former commander of Cuban troops in Angola who was then emerging as a lightning rod for military dissatisfaction with Mr. Castro's rule. Accused of running a drug smuggling operation, General Ochoa, along with Colonel de la Guardia and two others, was convicted by a military tribunal and executed by a firing squad.
The Cuban Government has repeatedly described General Ochoa as a renegade who smuggled six tons of cocaine and laundered money for his own enrichment and without the knowledge or authorization of his superiors. Mr. Lehder's contention that he discussed cocaine trafficking with Raul Castro undermines that argument and suggests that Fidel Castro himself approved drug operations in order to acquire much-needed hard currency.
Last month, General Ochoa's widow told the Havana correspondent of the Madrid newspaper El Mundo that "Fidel and Raul Castro were always aware of that traffic, and they encouraged it as a fair way to get financial resources for the revolution." She also said, "My husband's only crime was to tell Fidel and his brother Raul that the war in Angola was senseless."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Guy Lewis, an assistant United States attorney, leaving court yesterday in Miami after questioning Carlos Lehder Rivas, who had testified in the trial of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega. (Associated Press); Carlos Rivas; Raul Castro; Thomas Borge Martinez
 
Chart: "Pointing a Finger"
 Carlos Lehder Rivas testified yesterday at the drug trial of Gen. Manuel Antonio Noriega that several Communist leaders in Latin America were instrumental in the shipment of drugs to the United States. Following are sketches of Mr. Lehder and dome of the people he mentioned.
 CARLOS LEHDER RIVAS: One of the nine leaders of the Medellin drug cartel who started out as a car thief and small-time marijuana smuggler. Extradited to the United States in early 1987, convicted of conspiring to smuggle 3.3 tons of cocaine into the United States and is now serving a life sentence. Born in Armenia, 100 miles south of Medellin. Ran for political office on neo-Nazi party ticket in Colombia while being tried in the United States on drug charges.
 MANUEL PINEIRO LOSADA: Close confidant of Cuban President Fidel Castro. Chief of the Americas Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party. Nicknamed Barba Roja, or Red Beard. Worked with President Castro on strategy sessions with Sandinista and Salvadoran commanders.
 RAUL CASTRO: Minister of the Armed Forces and brother of President Castro. Evidence presented at the 1989 smuggling trial of Gen. Arnaldo Ochoa suggests that Raul may have been aware of the trafficking.
 ANTONIO DE LA GUARDIA FONT: Executed in mid-1989 in Havana for his part in drug smuggling operation. Former chief of the special smuggling section within the Interior Ministry of Cuba. Former member of President Castro's inner circle.
 TOMAS BORGE MARTINEZ: Last surviving founder of the Sandinista Front, who was Interior Minister and head of the secret police during the years in power.
 FEDERICO VAUGHN: In 1986 President Reagan once called him "a top aide to one of the nine commandantes who ruled Nicaragua" after pictures were released showing Mr. Vaughn helping to load a plane with cocaine. Former junior aide in the Nicaraguan Interior Ministry, accused of assisting in the establishment of cocaine laboratories in that country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NICARAGUA (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PANAMA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;COLOMBIA; MEDELLIN (COLOMBIA); CUBA; NICARAGUA NICARAGUA (99%); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); COLOMBIA (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PANAMA (79%); ARMENIA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; TRIALS; COCAINE CARTELS (93%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (93%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (93%); COCAINE (92%); SMUGGLING (92%); WITNESSES (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (89%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); APPROVALS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (65%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; NORIEGA, MANUEL ANTONIO (GEN); LEHDER RIVAS, CARLOS; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); CASTRO, RAUL (CMDR) RAUL CASTRO (94%); FIDEL CASTRO (92%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



732 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1471 words

HEADLINE: Dodd Navigates Political Shoals

BYLINE: By LINDSEY GRUSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn.

 BODY:
When Senator Christopher J. Dodd came here in October to talk to high school students, he was peppered with questions about the new state income tax. Recent dinners have been little more than quick bites between more angry questions.
"You couldn't get out of your car without people coming up," he says. "If you said 'I'm a U.S. Senator and have no view on this,' they would have torn your head off." 
 So after months of ducking the issue, he bowed to the political gale. He recently stopped talking about the state's need to raise more money and stabilize revenues and began to criticize the income tax as an unfair burden on the poor.
"Inequitable," he now says.
"I would not have voted for that package," he adds, mentioning what he calls a "primal scream," a dangerous loss of faith in the political system. "People have a tremendous lack of confidence in their own future, their children's future, their employer's, their town's, the state's. I've never seen anything like it."
For the first time in years there is also doubt about the 48-year-old Senator's future. Already, one Republican has announced his candidacy against Mr. Dodd, who just months ago was presumed to have lifetime tenure. But in the wake of the tax maelstrom, polls show he is vulnerable in the 1992 election.
"Six years ago, it would have taken a miracle to beat him," said G. Donald Ferree Jr., assistant director of the Institute for Social Inquiry, an independent polling group at the University of Connecticut. "Not any more. Over the last few years, Dodd has lost some of his luster. There are a large number of people out there ready to look at a challenger."
Republican political advisers see the race as an echo of last year's Senate campaign in New Jersey, where rage over Gov. Jim Florio's tax and education changes led to probably the biggest surprise of the 1990 elections: the near defeat of Senator Bill Bradley, then considered Presidential timber. The backlash continued on Nov. 5 of this year, when Republicans not only won control of both houses of the New Jersey Legislature for the first time in 20 years, but also won veto-proof majorities.
"Weicker has done for Connecticut what Florio did for New Jersey," said a Republican pollster who asked not to be identified because he works for a colleague of Dodd's. "Any time you hang the Governor in effigy in front of the State Capitol, you have a full-blown revolt going on. Incumbents had better watch out."
The Senate race here is being watched around the country as a barometer of antipathy to incumbents. Analysts say it should also provide a sign of whether pent-up demand for social services has caught up to the antitax fervor that defined American politics in the 1980's.
"It's a weather vane for all of us," one Democrat said.
While Mr. Bradley's campaign ignored the tax debate until the end, the Connecticut Senator's handling of the issue has been vintage Dodd, demonstrating his ability to combine seemingly conflicting trends.
Mr. Dodd went to Washington as a 30-year-old Watergate baby, one of the Young Turks elected in the wake of President Nixon's resignation, and he made his mark in the Senate by opposing the Reagan Administration's policies in Central America. But as the son of the famously conservative Senator Thomas J. Dodd of Connecticut, he has always been comfortable with the Old Bulls, as he calls the older Congressional leaders. A divorced bachelor without children, his domestic focus has been on family and children's legislation.
"He was politically trained with one foot in the front door, the progressive room, and one foot in the back door, the smoke-filled rooms," says Ken Crerar, a former legislative assistant who is the executive vice president for the National Association of Casualty and Surety Agents. "He can bridge the old and the new."
The training nearly came to naught. Seared by his father's censure in 1967 for misappropriating $116,000 in campaign funds, he foreswore politics. His father died in 1971. But friends say a need to atone helped persuade him to run for the House of Representatives in 1974. While Senator Dodd says he had no need to make amends, he celebrated his swearing-in to the Senate in 1981 by wearing his father's watch fob and sitting in his old chair.
But while remaining loyal, he has consistently opposed positions that defined his father. During America's crusade against Communist expansionism, the elder Dodd was immortalized by Phil Ochs in "Draft Dodger Rag." "I'm just a typical American boy from a typical American town," the anti-establishment folk singer sang. "I believe in God and Senator Dodd and keeping old Castro down."
But the current Senator Dodd is more attuned to views that blame the United States for Latin American ills and define one of the most important tasks in American foreign policy as withholding support from right-wing dictators. That led Senator Dodd to push a measure through Congress in 1981 that barred military aid to El Salvador unless the President certified improvement in its abysmal human-rights record. It was the first major foreign policy defeat for the Reagan Administration.
He also overcame lobbying by the Bush Administration to force cutbacks in military aid to El Salvador. As chairman of the Latin American subcommittee of the Foreign Relations Committee, he provided the support needed to overcome Republican opposition to the so-called Arias Plan, which led to negotiations to end Central America's civil wars.
 
A Difference in Style
 Although criticized as "soft on Communism," Mr. Dodd says his style is the only thing that is different from his father's approach. "He was a strong anti-Communist and he was dead right," the Senator says. "I agree with him. But we have different ways of dealing with it."
Senator Dodd says he learned that approach in the Dominican Republic, where he served for two years as a Peace Corps volunteer. "Other than my family, it was the single most important event in my life," he says, explaining that he went as a lost middle-class boy and "came back as a wide-eyed idealist."
While the Senator earned a national reputation opposing the Reagan Administration, most ratings show his record has never been as liberal as is assumed. Over all, it is similar to that of the state's junior Senator, Joseph I. Lieberman, who is perceived as the more conservative. Mr. Dodd has been a steadfast supporter of the country's military buildup, including the antimissile shield and the B-2 Stealth bomber.
"He's not ideological," says Stanley Greenberg, the Senator's pollster. Although Mr. Dodd voted against the Persian Gulf war, he has enraged many liberals by supporting President Alfredo Cristiani of El Salvador, whose pragmatism has belied the extremist past of his rightist party.
"What happened to you?" he is often asked.
"The world changed," he responds.
Still, State Representative Chris Burnham, a Stamford Republican and Persian Gulf war veteran who is the first Republican to enter the race against the Senator, says Mr. Dodd has failed to evolve.
"Chris Dodd is irrevocably locked in a 1970's mentality," Mr. Burnham says. The Senator, the representative adds, has been "insulated," "escaped scrutiny" and "for 17 years has done nothing."
"Finally, a realization has permeated the populace: This man has failed us," he said.
That criticism, a mantra among likely challengers in this recession-racked state, comes despite the Senator's success in obtaining defense contracts and his two greatest domestic triumphs: the ABC Child Care bill, which was approved last year and was the first national child-care subsidy program since World War II, and the so-called family leave bill, passed this year. It requires many employers to grant up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for family emergencies.
The Senator's success in the back rooms has made it something of a cliche that he would have been more comfortable in the gentlemanly club that was the Senate 20 years ago. A silver-tongued off-the-cuff speaker, he is regarded as one of the finest workers of the Capitol's corridors, a consummate insider who combines a salesman's love for backslapping with a psychiatrist's ability to listen.
"He loves the interplay and likes the fight," says his best friend, Michael (Goose) McAdams.
He is also considered a consummate campaigner. Visiting the New Britain Senior Center during its annual picnic recently, he stopped at all 49 tables, talked to all 325 diners and even danced with a few. That's when Rose Maclosky snapped a few pictures. But, the Senator noticed, she was too far away for her wide-angle lens. So he chased her down, looped an arm over her shoulder and had an aide take the picture.
"One on one, the guy is the best I've ever seen," Mr. McAdams says.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); VETO (70%); 

PERSON: GRUSON, LINDSEY; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN) CHRISTOPHER DODD (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



733 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Mulroney Warns Quebec on Division

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TORONTO, Nov. 20

 BODY:
When Prime Minister Brian Mulroney visited rural Quebec last week he appeared to be testing out a new, blunter approach to the challenge of Quebec separatism, one that many prominent Canadians say may be necessary to stem pressure in the French-speaking province for a vote on independence as early as the fall of 1992.
In place of past efforts to placate and even strike alliances with leaders of the independence movement, Mr. Mulroney chose a visit to his home region of Charlevoix, east of Quebec City, to align himself with what an increasing number of prominent figures elsewhere in Canada have been telling Quebec: that if it chooses to separate, the rest of Canada would insure that the divorce would inflict serious economic and other losses. 
 Mr. Mulroney mocked assurances offered by Jacques Parizeau, leader of the Parti Quebecois, the group that leads the independence movement, that the costs to Quebec's 6.9 million people would be modest.
The assurances have been part of Parti Quebecois strategy to garner support from Quebecers -- around half of all those supporting independence, according to some recent polls -- who say they favor a break with Canada if it is accomplished on the basis of "sovereignty association," meaning the maintenance of existing economic, trade and other links.
 
No 'Part-Time Canadian'
 "They say, 'Canada is unacceptable, but by the way, don't say anything, we'll take your passport,' " Mr. Mulroney said. "They say, 'Canada is unacceptable, but we'll take the benefits of economic union.' "
"Well, the hell with you," the Canadian leader said. "If Canada is unacceptable, it's unacceptable completely. You can't be a part-time Canadian. You don't get it both ways. You can't walk about like a cafeteria, taking the best parts of Canada, saying, 'I'm going to take these, and I'm going to leave you with the rest.' "
Mr. Mulroney's message was aimed in part at English-speaking regions of Canada, where support for Mr. Mulroney and his ruling Progressive Conservative party has been below 20 percent in opinion polls for months. But as much, the tougher line on Quebec appeared to stem from a new sense, increasingly widely shared in English-speaking Canada and among French-speaking Quebecers who oppose independence, that Quebecers are in danger of sliding toward independence on the basis of misapprehensions about what would be involved.
Leading bankers, businessmen, economists, historians, native Indian leaders and retired military figures have joined in, warning that Quebec's independence, if it comes, could bring bitter recriminations that would preclude any early renewal of economic and trade links. Some have warned of a slump in the Quebec economy of as much as 10 percent, and even of civil strife and rioting over issues like the division of federal assets and debts, the welfare of Quebec's English-speaking minority of 800,000 people, and the loyalty and control of troops and military bases in the province.
 
The Issue of Land
 Potentially the most contentious issue is land, and there have been a spate of warnings that Quebec cannot expect Canada to allow it to secede with all its territory, roughly two and a half times the size of Texas. Some English-speaking Quebecers have questioned Quebec's right to a broad wedge of land lying between the St. Lawrence River and the United States border, a region of strong English-speaking settlement. Cree and Eskimo leaders have said that as much as two-thirds of the province, including its entire northern region, should remain part of Canada since it was ceded to Quebec only after the Canadian confederation was founded in 1867.
The stridency has been prompted in part by the deadline set by Quebec. The province's legislature voted in June to set Oct. 26, 1992, as the last day for a referendum on sovereignty, with the provision that Quebec should "acquire the status of a sovereign state one year to the day" from the vote if a break was approved. The statute established two parliamentary committees, one to examine the details of a move to statehood, the other to assess "any offer of a new constitutional partnership" made by the federal government and the nine other provinces.
This reflected flexibility on the part of Premier Robert Bourassa, the Quebec leader, who has said he favors Quebec's remaining within Canada so long as Ottawa agrees to surrender a wide range of economic, social and other powers. Mr. Bourassa, who studied postgraduate economics at Harvard, has said that his government will take no risks with the "economic security" of its citizens, encouraging many in Canada to believe that he will ultimately opt for more modest constitutional gains.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: QUEBEC, CANADA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; QUEBEC PROVINCE (CANADA) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (96%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS SEPARATISM & SECESSION (94%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); HISTORY (71%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; MULRONEY, BRIAN (PRIME MIN) BRIAN MULRONEY (94%); JACQUES PARIZEAU (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



734 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Ros Muc Journal;
On Europe's Edge, Irish Fear Being Left to Drift

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ROS MUC, Ireland

 BODY:
The people in this wind-whipped village on the bleak western rim of Europe are used to the hard life. They wrestle existence out of a place where big rocks seem to grow overnight in the fields and the soil is thin and poor, the sheep scrawny. A few miles out along an inlet, the Atlantic Ocean yields seaweed and mackerel for the few who have boats.
Until the last year or so, things seemed to be improving. Emigrants sent back money from Britain and the United States, the Government dole provided about $75 a week, the European Community sent millions in subsidies to farmers in western Ireland, and an increase in industry in nearby cities absorbed many of the people leaving rural areas like Ros Muc. 
 But now the recession in the outside world is reaching the 600 or so people of Ros Muc. They wonder what will be in it for them when the politicians and bureaucrats meet in December 500 miles east of here in Maastricht, the Netherlands, to shape the New Europe they hear about on television.
In many ways the people here reflect the concerns of western and rural Ireland about the New Europe and political and monetary unification. And to some extent, they have the same fears as the other have-nots of the community, in Greece, Spain, Portugal and southern Italy.
They are afraid, generally, that the New Europe will forget them if the recession continues to pinch the richer countries, and the poor countries of Eastern Europe continue to compete for aid. They fear too that as these countries get stronger they will compete directly with the Irish in markets for beef, lamb, wool, fish, cheese and butter.
 
'Huge Lack of Confidence'
 "There's a huge lack of confidence among the young people here," said Thomas O'Malley, who keeps a large shop in Ros Muc. "They feel that if anybody tries to haul himself up, he'll always be beaten back down again."
In the village, unemployment is at about 65 percent and the population is declining each year. Mr. O'Malley said he had to go to the next parish to get enough men for a football team of 20. The team has a 1-7 record.
Christo Walsh, who runs a shop and a pub, knows his market by making informal door-to-door surveys himself every few years. He estimates that 200 people have left in the last 10 years, putting the population at about 575. "When I was a boy," the 38-year-old merchant said, "we would have to line up 90 pints in advance along the bar every Sunday morning to handle the rush after Mass. Now maybe a half-dozen if we're lucky come in after Mass." The school he went to had 180 pupils, he said, but now has only 44.
"Of course the families are smaller now," he said. "Then they had 8 or 10. The priest says that there are 25 funerals a year. Five or 6 births. Last year 2 weddings. One year I sold no Pampers at all. It is becoming an area of very young and very old.
"I know an old fellow, 80 years old, an invalid and his wife too. But he won't let his nephew have any land. So he stays in London. The old people have their claws into the land and they won't let go."
Late last year one of Ros Muc's few industries, a German factory that made fiber-glass tubs, closed, putting 18 people on the dole. A small factory that makes woolen sweaters still employs eight people and business is growing. But the owner, Margaret Conroy, said she did not qualify for European Community help to expand. She started the business, which sold $30,000 worth of sweaters in the United States this year, with a Government loan through its Gaelic-Speaking Authority, as Ros Muc is in an area where most of the people speak Irish as their first language. Local banks, she said, are refusing her an expansion loan.
Seosamh O'Cuaig, a producer at the national Gaelic-language radio station a few miles away, said part of the unemployment problem was the Government policy of deducting from the public assistance dole any income made by a person. "If he takes his dole and buys a bottle of poteen and drinks himself to sleep, he's legal. But if he goes and cuts some seaweed to make a little extra, he's illegal."
But Mr. O'Cuaig, who is also a member of the Gaelic-language authority, said part of the problem might be the Irish mentality. "Some say it's a habit we formed, of a colonial people, always turning to the big power for help."
He said the farmers here needed to specialize, to start breeding free-range lambs for a quality market instead of lining up each year looking for a subsidy from Europe for their sheep and wool, which lost money because of world prices."
Some 20 miles away inland, in Galway City, the Roman Catholic bishops of western Ireland were holding a conference on what to do to save the area. The academics and the politicians agreed with the people of Ros Muc that the future was unclear, at best, for the outer edge of Ireland and Europe.
What happens in Maastricht in December is crucial to Ireland. As one of the poorer community countries, Ireland qualifies for $5.2 billion in community subsidies from 1989 to 1993. But will the community's rich members, Germany and France, continue such levels of help if their own economies falter and demands from Eastern Europe grow?
There is a legend along the west coast of Ireland that in 1492 Christopher Columbus spent the night here and attended Mass before embarking on the voyage that many felt would plunge him off the edge of the earth. As the momentous events at Maastricht approach, Western Ireland is conscious again that it is near the edge.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The world recession has begun to reach the already impoverished town of Ros Muc in western Ireland. Christo Walsh, center, who runs a shop and a pub and makes informal door-to-door surveys himself every few years to learn about his market, estimates that 200 people have left in the last 10 years. He and his 11-year-old daughter, Molly, watched Eddie Faherty dig a ditch for a gas line into their house. (James F. Clarity for The New York Times)
 
Map of Ireland highlighting Ros Muc

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (98%); IRELAND (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GREECE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;IRELAND; ROS MUC (IRELAND) EUROPE (98%); IRELAND (94%); NETHERLANDS (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); GREECE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (75%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (71%); BEEF (69%); DRINKING PLACES (64%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



735 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1085 words

HEADLINE: Abortion Tearing Bush;
Battle Looms Over Party's Stand on an Issue That Will Test Ability to Hold Both Sides

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20

 BODY:
President Bush won a victory this week on abortion, but it was only the beginning of a season of political conflict on an issue that clearly torments him.
He faces a battle over the Republican platform next summer that will test the White House's theory that it can finesse the issue's divisive effect by declaring the party a "big tent" where both sides can feel at home, although the President remains firmly anti-abortion. 
 He faces a general election campaign against Democrats who are no longer timid about highlighting his anti-abortion stance, convinced that support for abortion rights is now a plus among voters of the baby boom.
 
Suspicion on Both Sides
 He faces constant suspicion from activists on both sides of the debate -- the supporters of abortion rights who have never forgiven him for becoming more anti-abortion over the years, and the opponents of legalized abortion who watch him for the slightest suggestion that he will again shift his position.
All these issues were foreshadowed in this week's struggle over legislation that would have allowed doctors and counselors in federally financed family planning clinics to discuss abortion with pregnant women. Mr. Bush vetoed the legislation, and the House failed by 12 votes to override him.
Some of the most impassioned voices against the President's position in the House this week were those of Republicans, reflecting the party's deep division over the issue.
"A lot of Republicans, including this one, are very disenchanted with where we are on issues like the gag rule, where it seems to me our party's principles are clearly in favor of doctor-patient confidentiality," said Representative John Porter, Republican of Illinois.
Already, Republicans on both sides are quietly organizing for the coming struggle over the party's platform, which now calls for a constitutional amendment outlawing abortions and for the appointment of judges "who recognize the sanctity of human life."
 
Warning From Abortion Foes
 Phyllis Schlafly, who heads the Republican National Coalition for Life, contends that any weakening of the abortion plank would antagonize a core Republican constituency -- the anti-abortion movement -- and gain the party nothing.
"You can't kick away your own constituency and win," Mrs. Schlafly said. "There are some pro-choice Republican women but they really don't have any place to go. I cannot believe that a pro-choice Republican woman is going to vote for a Dukakis or a Cuomo or any of these leftists that Democrats will put up."
Party leaders have generally tried to follow the approach pioneered by Lee Atwater, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee with a keen sensitivity to younger voters whose economic interests might lead them to the Republicans while their position on social issues aligned them with the Democrats.
In 1989, when the abortion rights movement was galvanized by the Supreme Court decision giving states new power to restrict abortion, Mr. Atwater began talking about the party as a "big tent."
Mr. Bush was opposed to abortion but the party was big enough for those who disagreed, Mr. Atwater emphasized in a deft strategic straddle. In the past few months, some Republicans, including Vice President Dan Quayle, have floated the idea of putting the "big tent" philosophy in the platform's preamble, presumably leaving the strict anti-abortion language elsewhere in the platform intact.
 
Counting on Party Unity
 In general, Mr. Bush's advisers are counting on party unity, personal loyalty and political pragmatism to avert a damaging fight at the party's convention in Houston. "The principle motivation for 99 percent of our delegates is to win the Presidential campaign," said Charles Black, a top Republican adviser. "And if they are told that a certain issue or policy is important to the President, most of them will support the President."
Republicans do have a history of party discipline that puts the Democrats to shame. But the discontent among Republicans who support abortion rights has grown in the past few years, as it seems more and more likely that the Supreme Court will overturn, or at least severely restrict, constitutional protection for abortion rights. And for all the talk of a "big tent," many of these Republicans saw the President's stance this week as a sign that the right was very much in the center ring when it came to abortion.
The expected challenge for the party nomination from Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator, will probably only feed the President's wariness about antagonizing his right flank. Moreover, many political professionals argue that it is dangerous for elected officials to shift their position on abortion, and Mr. Bush already has a record of such shifts.
Mr. Black acknowledged this week that the President's position on the counseling ban might not be the most favorable political ground. But, he argued: "It's critically important that the President be consistent on this issue. And he is and he doesn't hesitate to be."
 
'Out of the Mainstream'
 "Any Democratic nominee will be able to paint George Bush into a right-wing corner on this," said Frank Greer, who has worked in abortion rights campaigns and is now the media consultant to Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas. "He is out of the mainstream on this."
In contrast, Democrats often seemed reluctant to press the abortion issue in 1988, when the anti-abortion forces were fully mobilized but the supporters of abortion rights were not.
This time, the recent actions of the Supreme Court, and the possibility that even before the election it could deliver another major ruling restricting the constitutional right to abortion, will keep the issue alive. If nothing else, the organized groups are determined to make it so.
"It's not going to be like 1988," said Kate Michelman, the head of the National Abortion Rights Action League. "Dukakis didn't make it an issue, certainly Bush didn't make it an issue, and the only time it became an issue was in the debates when a reporter would ask about it."
There are many in politics who argue that abortion will remain, however, an issue of primary concern only to 10 to 15 percent of the voters on either side. Most voters, they say, will make a decision -- particularly a Presidential decision -- on other issues. Few in politics predict that the abortion issue is a silver bullet.
Still, for Mr. Bush, it is an issue that must be managed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (86%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (86%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992 ABORTION (96%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); VETO (79%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (78%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); JUDGES (70%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (68%); PATIENT PRIVACY (66%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



736 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, Budget Troubles Linked to Years of 'One Shots'

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 20

 BODY:
On paper, there is a simple explanation for why New York State, for the third year in a row, is staring at a huge gap in its budget: the economy is in even worse shape than policy makers here thought it would be when the budget was approved. Tax collections are down, demands for social services are up, and the budget is no longer in balance.
But aside from the obvious argument that Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and legislative leaders erred on the side of optimism, there is perhaps an even more fundamental problem at work, many analysts say, and that has to do with how the budgets have been put together to begin with. 
 Too many years of holding the budget together with "one shots" -- nonrecurring revenues, the rough fiscal equivalent of spit and glue -- have insured that a large potential deficit will show up at the start of successive years. And those problems have simply become so large that, absent a drastic round of spending cuts, it may have become all but impossible to pass a balanced budget.
Nearly every state has relied on one-shot measures to get them through hard times in the last few years. But, said Vladimir Stadnyk, managing director for Standard & Poor's, a major Wall Street rating agency, "in New York, they've done it for longer and they've done it in greater magnitude -- And that's a major part of the problem here."
It was also, he added, a major cause of the drop last year in New York's credit rating to the lowest of all but two other states in the nation, Louisiana and Massachusetts.
New York City has also relied on one shots, like borrowing from reserve funds, but it has done so to a much lesser degree than the state -- largely because of control that state leaders have themselves imposed on the city.
"That's the irony of it," said State Comptroller Edward V. Regan, who has persistently criticized the state's one-shot measures. "It's like Congress telling General Motors to obey the civil rights law, and then exempting itself."
In the last fiscal year's state budget, there were $2.7 billion in one shots, an all-time record, according to the Comptroller's office, and a figure that represented nearly 10 percent of all the spending in the budget.
Included were a speed-up of certain tax payments, an unpopular "lag payroll" plan that withheld a week's worth of state workers' wages until they retire or die, and, arguably the most infamous one shot of all, $200 million the state managed to "produce" by selling the state-owned Attica prison to itself. New Yorkers will pay the interest, $290 million in all, over the next generation.
This $2.7 billion showed up as part of the $6 billion gap that the Governor and the Legislature labored to close last spring when they put together this year's $30 billion budget, which has already fallen out of balance by at least $689 million.
Meanwhile, this year's budget itself had $1.4 billion in one-shot measures. That figure, in essence, now shows up as part of the potential deficit in the 1992-93 budget, which the State Budget Director, Patrick J. Bulgaro, said on Tuesday could rise as high as $3.6 billion.
 
Putting Off Problems
 "Basically one shots are used to pay for something that couldn't be afforded in the first place," said Raymond B. Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a Manhattan-based watchdog group. "It's a question of putting off today's problem until tomorrow."
Governor Cuomo has quarreled with Mr. Regan's definition of one shots and maintained the actual amount is hundreds of millions of dollars less than the Comptroller's account, but no one denies they have been a major part of balancing the budget in the last three years.
Mr. Cuomo has defended the "intelligent use" of these nonrecurring revenues, arguing they have helped avert damaging tax increases or even more painful spending cuts at a time that reductions have already caused considerable cries of anguish from New Yorkers.
And although the Governor has often borne the brunt of blame for one shots, he has by no means been their most vigorous proponent. State Senate Republicans, for all their talk about fiscal responsibility, last spring proposed an even larger menu of one shots than the Governor did, including the sale to private operators of state-owned buildings.
 
Covering Potential Hole
 Had the economy taken a postive turn rather than remaining stalled for the last few years, there would probably be far less criticism of the practice. That is because the upturn would have helped cover some of the potential hole caused by the one-shot measures in the first place.
But because the reverse is true, the one shots have now become all the more severe a villain.
"By using one shots, you are creating potential structural imbalances," said Mr. Stadnyk at Standard & Poor's. "And if the economy continues to nosedive, that becomes an almost permanent part of your problem. It gets pushed over from year to year, so that a year from today, you and I will probably sit here and say, 'Geez, we've got another problem.' "
 
'Many Problems'
 The estimates about the economy were indeed off, although both Mr. Cuomo and legislative leaders point out that they were largely based on what many economic experts were predicting and were, in any event, still more conservative than the projections they would have used had they accepted Bush Administration assurances that the economy would be in a recovery by now.
"There are many problems with the budget process here," said Daniel B. Walsh, the president of the New York State Business Council. "But it is also fair to say that the recession is a lot deeper than almost anyone predicted it to be. The only exact science in this town is hindsight."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "BALANCE SHEET; Albany's One-Shot Budget Fixes" shows percentage of New York's total general fund receipts that were nonrecurring, or one-shot, budget measures each fiscal year, from '82-'92 (Estimate) (Source: New York State Comptroller's Office) (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); APPROVALS (72%); CREDIT BUREAUS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); CIVIL RIGHTS (50%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; REGAN, EDWARD V (COMPTROLLER)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



737 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 626 words

HEADLINE: Council Speaker Attacks The Mayor's Shelter Plan

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

 BODY:
Mayor David N. Dinkins yesterday passionately defended his embattled plan to place 24 homeless shelters in middle-class neighborhoods, even as City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone told the Mayor's commission on the homeless that the plan ignored "a fundamental part of the American dream, the right to a stable neighborhood."
Citing the packed meetings of angry neighborhood residents who oppose the shelters, Mr. Vallone declared: "It is nothing short of outrageous to brand all these people as heartless, or racist, or simply Nimby." 
 But at a news conference, Mr. Dinkins said it was "inhumane" to continue to house the homeless in barracks and vast armories. "The question is what we are going to do with our homeless people," he said. "They are God's children, too."
Mr. Dinkins said Mr. Vallone and others shouting "not in my back yard" have not offered alternative sites so that the homeless can be housed in smaller shelters that can treat their problems.
 
For Nonprofit Developers
 As the two principal political players -- the Mayor and the Speaker -- raised the volume of their disagreement, Andrew Cuomo, chairman of the Mayor's commission, began to sketch out an alternative way of carrying out the Mayor's plan that would have nonprofit groups, rather than the city, develop shelters for the homeless.
Mr. Cuomo, who said last week that the Mayor's plan was "dead on arrival," was more diplomatic yesterday.
In his opening remarks at the hearing, he praised the Mayor's goal of building smaller shelters that are geared to treating the problems of different segments of the homeless population -- those afflicted with drug addiction, alcoholism and mental illness.
But he continued to question whether the city should build the shelters, and whether they should be called "shelters" at all; he prefers "treatment centers."
Mr. Cuomo, who heads a nonprofit group that shelters about 500 homeless families in the city, suggested that nonprofit groups with proven track records are better equipped to develop the programs than the city.
The Mayor has called for the city to build 24 shelters to house 2,500 homeless men and women. The city would then contract with nonprofit groups to run the shelters.
Jeffrey L. Carples, an executive deputy commissioner in the Human Resources Administration, said the Dinkins administration decided the city should build the shelters to insure that the job would get done. Nonprofit groups also have a difficult time convincing neighborhoods to approve sites for shelters, he said.
For moral as well as legal reasons, the city must make progress in opening smaller shelters, he said.
State law requires that no city shelter house more than 200 people. The city has routinely obtained waivers from the state to allow the city to retain armory shelters where as many as 900 to 1,000 men sleep on a single sprawling drill floor.
"It would have been politically dishonest to put the onus on the non-profits," Mr. Carples said. "We felt we had to commit the city to developing the sites."
 
Concern for Security
 Borough President Fernando Ferrer of the Bronx testified against the Mayor's plan, saying that the city might withdraw the services needed to operate the new shelters securely. He said the city had done so in the past.
He praised programs developed and run by nonprofit groups, like those of Mr. Cuomo's group, H.E.L.P. (Housing Enterprise for the Less Privileged), as aiding homeless families to rebuild their lives and winning the support of the surrounding communities.
Mr. Cuomo asked Mr. Ferrer if he supported a strategy that referred the homeless "to experienced, proven not-for-profit providers."
"That's the right way to approach it," Mr. Ferrer replied.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "What They Say: On Shelter for the Homeless"
 
BARBARA FIFE, Deputy Mayor
 "There may be better locations for shelters. We want to work with communities to identify sites. So far it has been a disappointment that such responsible interaction has been missing. Communities' fears have been fanned."
 
FERNANDO FERRER, Bronx Borough President
"It seems far easier for the Bronx to acquire 100 percent of the city's new prison construction, more than half its sludge treatment capacity or seven additional sites for the homeless, than it is to get any of the projects needed to put Bronx residents back to work, or educate youth, or uplift the Borough's economy."
 
PETER F. VALLONE, City Council Speaker
"I agree with those who contend that the best sites for treatment facilities are in mixed use commercial or manufacturing areas near jobs, social services and transportation."
 
STEVEN BANKS, Coordinating attorney, Homeless Family Rights Project, Legal Aid Society
"While the events of the past year have caused irreparable harm to homeless families, the current crisis can be solved by greater homelessness prevention efforts, providing adequate alternative housing, and allocating sufficient permanent housing."
 
RICHARD SURLES, Commissioner, State Office of Mental Health
"It is estimated that one in four homeless persons has a serious mental illness. Studies done by New York State Psychiatric Institute have shown that approximately 24 percent of single homeless adults using the shelter sustem have a diagnosis of serious mental illness."
 
ANDREW CUOMO, Chairman, Mayoral Commission on the Homeless
"The mayor's plan has broken new ground in homeless policy. The plan is premised on the fact that bigger is not always better and in fact smaller shelters are preferable to larger shelters. Public comments on the plan have tended not to dispute the mayor's policy, but rather the specific mechanisms to best implement that policy."

Photos of Barbara Fife, Fernando Ferrer, Peter F. Vallone, Steven Banks, Richard Surles and Andrew Cuomo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMILY (78%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); APPROVALS (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (63%); 

PERSON: DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR); VALLONE, PETER F (COUNCILMAN); CUOMO, ANDREW M; DUGGER, CELIA W ANDREW CUOMO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



738 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Walkout By Teachers Leaves Rift

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: LITTLE FERRY, N.J., Nov. 15

 BODY:
Illegal walkouts by public schoolteachers often leave behind bitter feelings. But here in Little Ferry, a working-class borough of 10,000 residents, a strike has produced more than bitterness. The school superintendent wants to dismiss 37 teachers on the ground that their two-week strike in September has made them unfit to instruct children.
But a state judge has barred the Little Ferry School Board from acting on the case until June, when clasess end for the summer. 
 The superintendent of the two-school district that includes 53 teachers and about 700 pupils is Stacy J. Holmes. He asserts that because the teachers defied two court orders to return to work, they served as poor models for pupils and should therefore be dismissed. "It could very well be that children should not receive their instruction from someone who has broken the law," Mr. Holmes said.
 
'Vendetta' Is Charged
 State education officials say Mr. Holmes is the first superintendent in New Jersey to seek the dismissal of public schoolteachers for striking.
Elaine Shields, the president of the teachers' union in Little Ferry, said Mr. Holmes was conducting a "war" against the faculty. James P. Connerton, executive director of the New Jersey Education Association, the statewide teachers' union, accused the superintendent of conducting a "personal vendetta."
"I don't know if it's personal pride or he's trying to make a reputation as union buster," Mr. Connerton said. He said the union would demand full individual hearings for all 37 teachers if the case ever reached the State Commissioner of Education. Mr. Holmes is not taking action against the district's 16 other teachers because they do not have tenure or did not take part in the strike, which was prompted by a dispute over wages.
Statewide representatives of superintendents and school boards insist that Mr. Holmes is acting alone, without their official blessing. But they stopped short of criticizing him because they have never drafted a policy on the position he has taken.
 
Walkout Ruled Illegal
 Nationally, only a handful of school boards have dismissed teachers for striking in recent years. In 1974, the Timberlane School District, which serves four towns in New Hampshire, dismissed 94 teachers, and Hortenville, Wis., dismissed 84. In 1981, 53 teachers in Mariemont, Ohio, were dismissed after a 95-day strike.
Until recently, when Judge Kevin M. O'Halloran of New Jersey Superior Court stalled the dismissal effort, Mr. Holmes had won two important rulings.
When the walkout started on Sept. 6, Judge O'Halloran declared it illegal and issued the first of two back-to-work orders. Such rulings are customarily issued during teachers' strikes in New Jersey. And striking teachers routinely ignore them, as did they in Little Ferry.
In response, Judge O'Halloran issued two rare decisions. He fined each teacher 1 percent of his or her gross pay for each day of the walkout. Ultimately, $94,000 was collected. He also ruled that the teachers would lose their jobs if they failed to return to classes by Sept. 20. They went back to work that day without a contract.
 
'Cooling Off' Period Needed
 In the sour aftermath of the strike, negotiations have yet to resume between the teachers, whose annual salaries range from $19,000 to $50,000, and the school district, which has angered them by reducing its wage offer three times since March.
In his latest decision, Judge O'Halloran said a "cooling off" period was needed for renewed negotiations and calm in Little Ferry's two elementary schools, Memorial and Washington.
After that ruling, about 1,000 teachers, many from out of town, descended on Little Ferry, snarled traffic and demonstrated outside the two schools for about two hours, the police said.
Were the board to uphold Mr. Holmes's charges, it could suspend the 37 teachers with or without pay. The case would then go to the State Education Commissioner, John Ellis. He is the only official under New Jersey's teacher-tenure law with the authority to dismiss teachers for other than economic reasons.
Mr. Holmes said the teachers' defiance of the court orders constitutes "conduct unbecoming" a teacher. The Commissioner has final discretion in determining "conduct unbecoming," which is grounds for dismissal under the tenure law.
 
Many Contracts Unsettled
 The Little Ferry case has occurred at a time of tense and snail-paced bargaining on new teachers' contracts throughout New Jersey against a backdrop of recession. Contracts remain unsettled in about 115 of the 256 districts whose agreementsexpired in June, the New Jersey School Boards Association said.
Mr. Holmes said he was not seeking vengeance or attempting to bust the union. But in a letter to residents on Nov. 6, he accused teachers and union officials of harassing the district.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); NEW JERSEY EDUCATION ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;LITTLE FERRY (NJ) UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STRIKES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS TEACHING & TEACHERS (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (92%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (91%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); STRIKES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LITIGATION (79%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); JUDGES (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STACY J; O'HALLORAN, KEVIN M (JUDGE); HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



739 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: At 20, a Nonprofit Theater That Has Endured

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
It may be remarkable for any nonprofit theater company to survive to its 20th anniversary, but it is positively a miracle when two of the founders are still speaking to each another. Yet there they were, Curt Dempster and Arthur Giron, sitting amid the comfortable clutter of the Ensemble Studio Theater in Manhattan, hammering out the production of the play that will be inaugurating "In Pursuit of America," the Ensemble's 50-event, yearlong celebration of its 2 decades of existence.
"Here's what I think," said Mr. Dempster, the theater company's artistic director, preparing to impart his insights about "A Dream of Wealth," Mr. Giron's play, which opens today in the Ensemble Mainstage at 549 West 52d Street. "I was up all night thinking about it." 
 "Oh, that's good!" interrupted Mr. Giron, raising a laugh from Melia Bensussen, the play's director. "You know how much sleep I've lost revising it."
Mr. Dempster glanced sidelong at a visitor. "For 20 years we've talked like this, 20 years," he said. "I guess it's one reason we're still going strong."
 
Against the Current
 Going strong, indeed: the Ensemble persists despite Federal, state and city cutbacks in financial support, despite an economic recession that has stunted nightlife in the city, and despite a growing stay-at-home impulse that has drained audiences from developmental theater venues in favor of video-store bargains and cable-television hors-d'oeuvres.
"In Pursuit of America" is more than just the Ensemble's salute to itself and the 500th anniversary of Columbus's voyage to the American continent. It is a six-month festival of plays that are historical, political, polemical, pastoral, comical, tragical and just plain theatrical in the company's home to the East of De Witt Clinton Park at 11th Avenue.
The festival has been in preparation for more than a year and a half by the Ensemble's membership, which is composed of playwrights, directors, actors, designers and technicians. The 300 members include writers like Horton Foote, Christopher Durang, Frank D. Gilroy and John Patrick Shanley, and such performers as Ellen Barkin, Danny DeVito and Christine Lahti.
"Many of our members expressed concern that our society exists in an undertow of erosion, and we hoped we could deal with that in theatrical ways," said the 55-year-old Mr. Dempster. "It's as if the country were in a strange state of denial, unable to acknowledge just how bad the reality is. Maybe we'll help the reality to surface."
 
What Else Is Planned
 The other works in the current Ensemble series are "Deposing the White House," a dramatization by Dan Isaac of declassified Iran-contra materials that opens on Saturday; "Big Frame Shakin'," a one-man show written and performed by Jim Macdonald, who appeared in "The Heidi Chronicles" on Broadway, and "Stars 'n' Bars," a late-night cabaret of music, satire and political commentary with Lew Black and Rusty Magee serving as hosts. The last two presentations begin previews on Nov. 29.
The mission of the Ensemble is "to rescue a certain kind of theater from oblivion, to create an artistic sanctuary here and permit our members to work, to teach, and to have a life in the theater," said Mr. Dempster. "Increasingly, theater is becoming an endangered language, and we feel beholden to pass it along."
It does so by creating more than 200 new projects a year. Many are readings, some are workshops and the lucky few are theatrical productions, "because we can't afford to put everything up on its feet," said Mr. Dempster.
The theater company has developed more than 5,000 new plays in 20 years, and is best known for the events that begin and end its seasonal calendar. The first is the Octoberfest, in which the Ensemble presents as many as 75 theater pieces in three and a half weeks. Recent contributors have included Arthur Miller, Shel Silverstein, Harry Kondoleon and Mr. Foote. "We set out to revivify the art of the one-act play, which had been a much-neglected form," said Mr. Dempster. The finale of the Ensemble season is the Marathon of New One-Act Plays, beginning in April, in which 12 works are presented in 6 weeks.
 
Making Do With Less
 As the recession has cut down on the company's revenues, "we've learned how to make do with less," said Mr. Dempster. "We're sharing adversity with the rest of the country, and perhaps that's made us pull together more."
About 20 percent of the company's $850,000 annual budget comes from ticket sales to 15,000 theatergoers a year (the Ensemble charges from $5 to $22.50 for a seat) and revenues from the Institute for Professional Training, a school that teaches 300 students a year the skills of play writing, directing and acting. The rest comes from gifts donated by individuals, foundations, corporations and various government entities.
But government aid is shrinking. Mr. Dempster said financing reductions included a cut of $45,000, to $23,000, by the New York State Council on the Arts; a cut of $2,200, to $7,300, by New York City, and a cut of $1,600, to $11,900, by the National Endowment for the Arts.
Such government cutbacks for arts institutions are evidence "of a silent war against the arts in this country," Mr. Dempster said. "We are an expression of the most humane aspect of society, and yet, somehow, they see us as enemies."
 
The Secret: Low Overhead
 The Ensemble has a 99-seat theater, the Mainstage, and a 50-seat studio space. "Low overhead is the secret of our survival," Mr. Dempster said of the nonprofit company's 10,000 square feet of rented space. The company has two floors of a New York City-owned former furniture warehouse in a decidedly non-yuppified neighborhood.
"Ingenuity is our other secret," he said. Indeed, pressed for space while mounting a recent Eduardo Machado play, the creative team brought up the cavernous, 8,000-pound-capacity freight elevator, locked it level with the sixth-floor studio theater nearby, and used the elevator as part of the performance space.
Throughout its 20 years, the Ensemble "has tried to encourage younger talents, women and minorities," said Mr. Dempster. "Nonprofit theater should reflect the society that supports it." As part of the company's "New Voices" series, the Ensemble holds readings of new plays, many of them chosen from more than 1,200 yearly submissions of unsolicited manuscripts to the company's Literary Department.
Among those who have written for, performed in or directed Ensemble productions are Richard Dreyfuss, Jill Eikenberry, Teri Garr, David Mamet, Joyce Carol Oates and Jerry Zaks as well as Matthew Cowles and John Seitz, who are appearing in "A Dream of Wealth."
"We've all seen each other grow, through the years," Mr. Giron said during a break in rehearsals. "We trust each other. And it's a pretty big family."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Curt Dempster, left, and Arthur Giron, two of the founders of the Ensemble Studio Theater, conferring on its opening production. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ENSEMBLE STUDIO THEATER

ORGANIZATION: ENSEMBLE STUDIO THEATER

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (92%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CITY LIFE (70%); WRITERS (60%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN; DEMPSTER, CURT; GIRON, ARTHUR HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



740 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 15; Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Masur, as Just Plain Kurt, Gives His Audience Some Answers

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
"I want to be presented not as a kind of a star, but as just a citizen, like you are," Kurt Masur told the 600 listeners who turned up for the first Philharmonic Forum at Avery Fisher Hall on Tuesday evening. And for nearly an hour, Mr. Masur responded to questions, complaints, suggestions and observations, and showed how accessible and genial the music director of one of the world's great orchestras could be.
Ever since he accepted the directorship of the Philharmonic, Mr. Masur has sought ways to make connections with his New York audience, much as he has done in Leipzig, Germany, where he directs the Gewandhaus Orchestra. An approach that occurred to him early on was to hold occasional town meetings, at which he could answer his audience's questions, and perhaps pose a few of his own. Tuesday's Forum was his first attempt to do that, and seems to have been the first such meeting in the Philharmonic's 149-year history. 
 With Mr. Masur was Deborah Borda, the orchestra's new managing director, who began the discussion by telling the listeners, "What we want to hear tonight is what's important to you, what will enhance the concertgoing experience for you."
The audience was not shy. Although only a dozen people were able to ask questions -- and several asked more than one -- another dozen questioners were waiting their turns at the microphones when the 50-minute session ended at 7 o'clock. Ms. Borda said that a second Philharmonic Forum was scheduled for April 30. Tuesday's session is to be broadcast by WNYC-FM (93.9) on Saturday at 4 P.M.
Dressed casually, in a brown jacket, gray pants and the string tie that has become his offstage sartorial trademark, Mr. Masur seemed entirely at ease as the subject of a public interview. "We are not here hunting for an audience," he said pointedly in his opening remarks. "We want you to tell us what you have in mind." He added that he had felt lost when he arrived in New York, but that "the New York public made my life very quickly easygoing."
He said he believed that the Philharmonic's musical explorations were a journey that the musicians and the public could share more comfortably if he found ways to make listeners more at ease with the orchestra's repertory, particularly with contemporary works.
Actually, the audience's repertory complaints tended not to be about contemporary music. One questioner criticized Mr. Masur's choice of the Bruckner Seventh Symphony as the centerpiece of his opening program. Another said he disliked programs that included works for a scaled-down orchestra (Mozart symphonies, for example) or vocal soloists.
Mr. Masur deflected these criticism gently, pointing out, as he had in the telecast of the opening concert, that he saw the Bruckner as a bridge between the Gewandhaus Orchestra of Leipzig and the New York Philharmonic. And he said that in a program including, for example, Mozart and Mahler, the refinement of the Mozart work would make the Mahler sound even more grandly scaled than it would if he paired it with another large Romantic work.
 
Mirror, Mirror on the Stage
 Some of the suggestions had novel touches. One man wondered whether, instead of having the audience see only the conductor's back, the Philharmonic might install a large mirror at the back of the stage so that Mr. Masur's facial expressions could be seen. Mr. Masur did not think so.
"When I conduct Beethoven," he said, "I wouldn't like to replace Beethoven. He should be in your mind, not me."
Someone else asked whether the tuning at the beginning of concerts was a gimmick, a necessity or a tradition, and Mr. Masur said that it was necessary, but that he had been trying to find ways to dissaude the orchestra from warming up on the themes of the evening's works so that when the program began the themes would sound fresh. To another listener, he explained that he had put the basses on risers at the back of the orchestra to try to improve the sound.
There was an impassioned complaint from a listener who identified himself as unemployed and disabled, and who said that although most other musical organizations in New York offered inexpensive seats, the Philharmonic's minimum of $25 made it impossible for him to attend its concerts. He said he had written to the Philharmonic about this, and had received a letter saying that he was right, but that there was nothing they could do about it. Ms. Borda's response was essentially the same.
Others complained that the orchestra's program notes seemed too technical and seemed to be written for people who already understood musical form and therefore did not need the notes. Mr. Masur agreed, and said that he was seeking a new approach that would try to describe the music's spirit rather than just its structure. And two questioners asked that something be done about audience decorum, which, they said, was worse every year.
 
Decorum in the Audience
 Mr. Masur and Ms. Borda said that they were not sure what they could do about decorum, but that noise was a problem, particularly now that the orchestra's concerts are being recorded for release by Teldec Records. Mr. Masur said that it cost $100,000 each time the orchestra had to hold a recording session in order to remake sections marred by coughing.
None of the questions touched upon the Philharmonic's labor negotiations or the possibility that the musicians might go on strike in December. But the topic could not have been far from the listener's minds, since musicians in concert dress stood at the escalators, staircases and doors distributing leaflets that outlined their desires for better salaries and working conditions.
One or two of the questioners, though, sought to lure Mr. Masur into comparisons that, as a consummate diplomat, he deftly avoided. Asked to compare the Philharmonic with the Gewandhaus orchestra, for example, he said: "I will answer you honestly: I like them both." He also noted that the two orchestras came from very different traditions.
And to a questioner who asked the conductor which instrumental sections from the world's great orchestras he would draw on if given an opportunity to create an ideal ensemble, Mr. Masur smiled and said: "I'm not inexperienced enough to answer that question."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kurt Masur, director of the New York Philharmonic, and Deborah Borda, managing director, at a forum. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LEIPZIG, GERMANY (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (57%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LEIPZIG, GERMANY (57%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MUSIC (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); 

PERSON: MASUR, KURT; KOZINN, ALLAN KURT MASUR (94%); AVERY FISHER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



741 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 17; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Magic, Quayle and A Message

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW

 BODY:
WHEN Vice President Dan Quayle recently criticized Magic Johnson for advocating "safe sex" as the primary way to help beat the AIDS epidemic, and suggested instead "abstinence" for unmarried couples, he met with numerous critics, including Dr. Janet Taylor.
"He's off his rocker if he thinks most people would really abstain," she said. Taylor is a psychiatrist and could certainly have found a more medically applicable metaphor than "off his rocker," but it expressed aptly, if colloquially, what she had in mind. 
 As for "safe sex," the people whom Johnson said he was particularly trying to reach, young people in the embattled inner cities, won't respond to that, either, said Taylor. "Let's be realistic," she said. "Many of those kids have zero self-esteem, and they often have so little guidance in their homes that a life, even their own, seems to have little meaning or value. Those are the kids that'll kill you for a dime. It's survival of the fittest out there. They're getting wilder and wilder. Wear condoms? Forget it!"
Taylor's perspective in the Magic Johnson issue is an unusual one, since she works with AIDS patients, and pre-teen-agers and young adults, and since she is the wife of Stu Jackson, the former head coach of the Knicks who is currently director of basketball operations for the National Basketball Association.
Like the Vice President, and even like Magic Johnson, there are many who have no touch, never had touch, or who might have lost touch, with what lives are like away from the executive mansion, or a Hollywood home. Quayle grew up moneyed. Johnson grew up middle class. Taylor sees the other side.
Taylor works with AIDS patients in the Westchester County Medical Center, just outside of New York City, and she works with youngsters, many from impoverished backgrounds, in the hospital as well as those in the Westchester County jail.
Taylor was among the last to see Johnson play a game in person, when she accompanied her husband last month to Paris with a contingent from the N.B.A. office to watch the Lakers play two European teams in preseason games.
She believes it was courageous of Johnson to speak out about his illness, and commends his intentions to do whatever he can to inform others about the AIDS virus, and to seek a cure, a cure that if found soon, would not only save millions of lives, but Johnson's life, too.
Would seeing the possible physical decline of Johnson over the next several years have an impact among the youth she works with? "I doubt it," Taylor said. "They've seen close up their fathers, their mothers, their cousins, their aunts and uncles, their close friends, waste away from AIDS, and yet that population continues to have terrible problems.
"It reminds me of when Len Bias died from a cocaine overdose. People said, 'Oh, too bad,' and began snorting and smoking again. Maybe Magic will have an impact for a short while, and he may have an impact in the middle-class communities, but I don't see it happening among the poor.
"Quayle and Magic both suggested a change in life style, in effect. But that must come with moral responsibility. And that takes in a deeper problem, even, than sex or the use of intravenous needles for drugs. Kids from the age of one and two years old aren't taught the difference between right and wrong.
"There is a breakdown in the family structure. The parents are in their 20's and 30's and they are doing the wrong things, even though they may tell their kids that they shouldn't do them. But the kids are watching. And the church and the schools have lost their power. So the kids are out there virtually alone."
Taylor says the problem goes even beyond the inner cities. According to national statistics, more than 50 percent of all girls are sexually active by the time they are 16, and it's nearly 70 percent for boys. But it is in the inner cities where Taylor believes change is hardest.
"I even see boys 10 and 11 years old who are sexually active now," Taylor said. "They have almost no concept of pregnancy, or venereal disease, or anything else, except for sex being a macho thing to do."
Change will come, she said, when family and community structures are regained.
"Our political leaders have to face this," said Taylor. "They've got to improve the economy and the school systems there. The case of Magic has illuminated problems. Now they have to really go past the tip of the iceberg, to understand the sense of hopelessness out there. But I think it's going to get worse, until Bush gets mugged, or something. Until it hits home like that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Janet Taylor (Alan Zale for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ORLANDO MAGIC (86%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORLANDO MAGIC (86%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); BASKETBALL AIDS & HIV (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MARRIAGE (77%); CHILDREN (73%); VIRUSES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SPORTS BUSINESS (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CITIES (69%); 

PERSON: BERKOW, IRA; JOHNSON, EARVIN (MAGIC) EARVIN 'MAGIC' JOHNSON (94%); JAMES DANFORTH 'DAN' QUAYLE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



742 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 20; Column 3; Cultural Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Books of The Times;
First a Murder, Then a Playful Sort of Metaphysics

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT

 BODY:

Murther and Walking Spirits
By Robertson Davies
357 pages. Viking. $21.95.
In the first paragraph of this novel, the protagonist describes how he was murdered. 
 That's right. At the opening of Robertson Davies's amusing "Murther and Walking Spirits," Connor Gilmartin, the entertainment editor of a Toronto newspaper called The Colonial Advocate, catches his wife, Esme Baron, in bed with his theater critic, Randal Allard Going. When Gil, as he is called, exclaims, "My God, Esme, not the Sniffer?" -- a nickname referring to Allard Going's habit of writing, "Do we sniff an influence from Pinter (or Ayckbourn, or Ionesco, or even Chekhov) in this latest work of Mr. Whoever-it-is?" -- Allard Going leaps up and strikes Gil down with a bludgeon that he keeps concealed in his cane.
Then how can Gil be the protagonist of the novel?
Because he is a ghost, obviously enough.
He has been "roughly translated" into a ghost so that Mr. Davies can pursue certain metaphysical questions. This should come as small surprise to readers of this prolific Canadian writer's earlier works, which include his well-known Deptford Trilogy ("Fifth Business," "The Manticore" and "World of Wonders") and the succeeding Cornish Trilogy ("The Rebel Angels," "What's Bred in the Bone" and "The Lyre of Orpheus") Mr. Davies loves to build his playful plots out of intellectual arcana.
But in "Murther and Walking Spirits" -- the phrase comes from Samuel Butler's observation that "where Murthers and Walking Spirits meet, there is no other narrative can come near it" -- the metaphysics take a surprising turn. After watching his own funeral, at which the newspaper's publisher acknowledges his existence for the first time, Gil decides to attend a local film festival, partly to keep an eye on his murderer and partly because he loves the movies.
While the regular audience sees Robert Goldstein's controversial, anti-British film, "The Spirit of '76," Sergei Eisenstein's "Battleship Potemkin," Sergei Paradzhanov's "Shadows of Our Forgotten Ancestors," Tancred Ibsen's film version of his grandfather's "Master Builder" and Ingmar Bergman's "Scenes From a Marriage," the ghost of Gilmartin is shown his own private film festival involving scenes from the lives of his own forgotten ancestors.
These episodes are absorbingly narrated and relate thematically to what the regular audience is viewing. In one, Gil sees how a relative who lived in New York during the American Revolution decided to canoe her family up the Hudson to Canada because she remained loyal to the British. In another, he learns about Methodist ancestors who emigrated from Wales to Canada. In still another, he watches scenes from the marriage of his paternal grandparents. What is striking about each of the episodes is that the people in them are rather ordinary -- extremely human mixtures of enterprise and fecklessness.
At first you suspect that Mr. Davies has simply found an excessively tricky way to write a family history. After all, there needs no ghost gone to the movies to tell us about economic depression in Wales or that insufficient capital can lead to bankruptcy. Bit by bit, however, you see that there's more than quaint family history being told.
By exploring Gil's after-death experience, the author, in his usual half-playful, half-serious manner, is tracing his ghost's passage from the here and now to eternity. On the way, Gil encounters film, which he considers a medium capable of showing him his dream life, and film shows him how his ancestors did not just live in some distant past but, from their own vantage points at least, lived lives as immediate and vibrant as Gil's.
Moreover, he learns that although his ancestors weren't heroes, they engaged in what he has learned to call the Hero Struggle. As a philosophical friend of his once told him: "You're that dangerous class of fool, a trivializer, Gilmartin! To the human creature nothing that gets strongly to him is trivial. It is all on the heroic scale, so far as he can grasp it. . . . And women -- our towns and villages are jammed with Medeas and Persephones and Antigones and God knows who not, pushing their wire carts in the supermarkets unrecognized by anyone but themselves, and then probably only in their dreams. All engaged in the Hero Struggle!"
You may still think, as I did, that Mr. Davies has gone to excessively tricky lengths to make these points. But then we come to the novel's concluding section, which returns to the story's present time and takes up the matter of the crime and its punishment. Here the narrative voice waxes cynical once again, describing how Esme plans to cash in on her widowhood by writing a book, and how Allard Going, having murdered Gil, now tries to accede to his editorship.
The contrast in tones does more than all of Gil's philosophizing can to make his ancestors' lives seem worthwhile and substantial. At the conclusion of his film festival he reflects: "My parents . . . were both -- are both, I should say, for they live and I am dead as the world thinks of death -- of Puritan strain. My father, a highly educated man and, like so many highly educated men of our time, still an undeveloped child in matters of the spirit, is nevertheless unswervingly honorable and the Methodist strain in him persists as a strong, if desiccated and almost wizened, morality; he is a man with a powerful sense of what he calls 'the decent thing,' and he can always be depended on to do it, even when it costs him dear. My mother, brought up a Catholic in the harsh Irish tradition, is at root much the same sort of creature. They abandoned religion, the comfort and joys of religion as well as its night-terrors and absurdities, but its morality lives on without any emollient faith."
The question remains, can the vestige of this morality exert any power after Connor Gilmartin's death? Read "Murther and Walking Spirits" to learn the answer, and a whole lot more.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robertson Davies (Jerry Bauer/Viking)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: MURTHER & WALKING SPIRITS (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (77%); CANADA (73%); WALES (52%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (77%); CANADA (73%); WALES (52%); UNITED STATES (50%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (89%); WRITERS (78%); FESTIVALS (77%); MARRIAGE (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (71%); THEATER REVIEWS (71%); THEATER (56%); 

PERSON: DAVIES, ROBERTSON; LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER WILLIAM ROBERTSON 'ROBERTSON' DAVIES (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



743 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 21; Column 5; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Review/Music;
Looking for the Center In Gilbert and Sullivan

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND

 BODY:
Gilbert and Sullivan grows with difficulty in New York City, but not for lack of gardeners. There are always people like Albert Bergeret to cast, direct, conduct, raise money and generally create productions out of thin air. There is an audience, full and faithful. Singers -- from aspiring or marginal professionals to after-work amateurs -- clamor for parts.
But the money and the center have never been there. Gilbert and Sullivan companies rise and fall, occasionally triumph or else creak through jerry-built productions. The ranks have been particularly thinned in the last few years, but "Princess Ida" and "Patience" have seen the light of day at different ends of town. 
 The first was by Mr. Bergeret's New York Gilbert and Sullivan Players on Nov. 10 at Symphony Space. Its concert format -- black tie and long dresses, singers and orchestra onstage together -- bespoke frugality, but economic necessity may have been pointing the way toward good sense. Then, on Saturday night, the Village Light Opera Group began a series of performances of "Patience" that will run through Sunday at the Fashion Institute Theater, 227 West 27th Street, Manhattan.
The latter had all the accouterments: credible sets and costumes, choreographed staging, a good-sized pit orchestra. But it was also a far looser affair. Ensemble was vague and blurred, with musicians in and out of tune and the production in general offering a let's-see-what-happens approach to stagecraft. The strong presences of Richard Lissemore (Archibald) and William J. Brooke (Bunthorne) and the competence of Kim Stengel (Patience) never quite atoned for the hesitant, sometimes stumbling dialogue passed back and forth within this unusually large cast.
Musical theater involves so many things that must go right and offers so many opportunities for things to go wrong that small, occasional companies are necessarily overwhelmed by detail. Maybe Mr. Bergeret has hit on a better way, given the considerations of rehearsal time and production expense. Listeners at "Princess Ida" saw a little less, but they also had the more concentrated musical experience, and in the end the more theatrical one.
In "Princess Ida," John Rubinstein's King Gama promised much. Mr. Rubinstein has the ear, the comic talent and the easy elocution. (In "Patience," Nathan Hull's Colonel Calverly articulated syllables, but rarely did they turn into comprehensible words.) As the afternoon progressed, however, Mr. Rubinstein lapsed into a star-turn sensibility. Pointless routines were added, presumably to give him more time onstage. His later moments edged toward a parody of a parody. Thus, a small but delicious part came close to being overrun.
As Hilarion, Paul Tomasko and his hard-working tenor never really let the ear relax, but Philip Reilly, Richard Slade, Richard Holmes, Del-Bourree Bach, Samuel Shaw and Michael Collins were poised and pleasurable. Ironically, in this 19th-century feminist tract, the women of Sunday's cast were put in a less happy light. Men performed from memory; at one time or another, almost all the women could be seen walking the stage with scores in hand. As Princess Ida, Linda Milani offered a powerful, almost amazonian soprano, but her glacial acting frequently stopped action in its tracks. Joy Hermalyn, Kate Egan, Jan Holland, Susan Case, Helen Breen and Jane Hamilton were usually bright and engaging performers.
Mr. Bergeret was working with a good orchestra and chorus, and his informed enthusiasm made the number "Jump for Joy" emblematic of that Sunday's high and happy spirits. At the Fashion Institute, Richard W. Noll's more casual conducting had a paternal indulgence to it. Gilbert and Sullivan deserves better.
The director for "Patience" was Bill Fabris. Sets were by Kaem Coughlin and Kis Knecht. Nancy L. Johnson designed the costumes. Susan Weinman played Lady Jane, Tom Staggs the Duke.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PRINCESS IDA (OPERETTA); PATIENCE (OPERETTA)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS; VILLAGE LIGHT OPERA GROUP

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GILBERT AND SULLIVAN PLAYERS; VILLAGE LIGHT OPERA GROUP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: OPERA; REVIEWS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER (89%); MUSIC REVIEWS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); 

PERSON: HOLLAND, BERNARD

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



744 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 21; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
It's Still a Scramble For Bucs' Testaverde To Fulfill Potential

BYLINE: By MALCOLM MORAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla.

 BODY:
Could there still be a place for Vinny Testaverde in Canton, Ohio?
A more pressing question: Is there still be a place for him in Tampa Bay? 
 Testaverde is five seasons into a professional career, a time when the accomplishments of quarterbacks begin to reach an evaluation that leads to Cantonization or unemployment. At the age of 28, he is a football lifetime removed from draft day in 1987, the No. 1 choice with the size, arm, Heisman Trophy and University of Miami pedigree to make the Tampa Bay Buccaneers a winner and go directly to the Professional Football Hall of Fame.
Instead, he has become a symbol of Tampa Bay's frustration, part victim and part cause of its failures.
Going into the game here on Sunday against the Giants, the Buccaneers have a record of 18-45 since Testaverde became a starter with four games to play in the 1987 season. In 58 games, Testaverde has thrown 58 touchdown passes. He has been intercepted 90 times and has been sacked 150 times.
 
Lost and Found the Job
 This year, a 2-9 season in which he has lost and regained his starting job, Testaverde has had just three touchdown passes. He once said that while people might laugh, he still wanted to become a quarterback worthy of the Hall of Fame. But even that discussion has all but disappeared.
"I don't know if it's possible to happen," Testaverde said. "When you talk about Hall of Fame players you're talking about great players. That's what I want to be. Everyone who plays wants to be a great player.
"I guess that's all I'm really saying, just to be considered in that category. I don't think it's so much being named something as much as it is, 'You tried your hardest.' I'm going to try my best to be the best player, regardless of the situation."
The situation is this: Testaverde is in the next-to-last year of the $8.2 million contract signed all those hopes ago. That was before the questions about his ability to lead, to remain durable and to make the quick decisions the position demands.
 
Lots of Changes
 Testaverde's professional uncertainty comes at a time of change all around: His marriage to Mitzi Smith earlier this year, the exhilaration that came with the arrival of a daughter, Alicia Marie, in October, and his dismissal of his agent, Bob Woolf.
His contract length matches that of Coach Richard Williamson, who succeeded the dismissed Ray Perkins last December, and whose overall record dropped to 3-11 with the 43-7 loss to Atlanta last Sunday.
Testaverde understands that if a new coach arrives next year, he would likely want to start with a new quarterback. That is just one reason why this season has been considered a time Testaverde's professional career could be defined.
"I think as we went into the season he knew that," said Phil Krueger, the general manager since last February. "If he's going to achieve fame in the league, in the fifth year the pressure is on a guy by that time to have done something."
 
'A Lot of Disappointment'
 Krueger, an assistant coach under John McKay for the original Bucs in 1976, likened the attitude in the stands toward Testaverde to the early years of Doug Williams's career.
"I think what you face here is a lot of disappointment," Krueger said, "because this guy was so sensational in college, had such a national name. The anticipation of this guy being the Messiah -- I don't know if any guy could have come in and did what the people here expected."
"Everybody wants to say it's Vinny's fault," said linebacker Broderick Thomas. "Vinny wasn't getting any time. We've got a young team. He's a young quarterback. Vinny's been taking the rips and hard knocks since he's been here. It ain't his fault."
A reminder of the possibilities rests at home, on the mantel above his fireplace. Testaverde's Heisman Trophy became a reward for his ability to respond to difficult times early in his college career. After coming to Miami as a little-known prospect from Elmont, L.I., he resisted the temptation of transfering while playing behind Jim Kelly and Bernie Kosar before finally becoming a starter in his junior season.
"Sometimes people come in and say, 'Oh, that's it, huh?' " Testaverde said.
"Yeah, that's it.
"I'll pull it down, let them hold it."
That's when they find out how heavy the Heisman can be.
Testaverde was intercepted nine times in his final season at Miami, but five times in the confrontational Fiesta Bowl defeat to Penn State. No one could have known, but the disappointment and scrutiny made that game the emotional start of his professional career.
 
Take the Sack?
 There were 35 interceptions in 1988, his second Tampa Bay season, some of which took place when he was trying to avoid a sack. The frustrations shaped an opinion that conflicts with the coaching staff.
"I'm trying to get rid of the ball and I'm getting hit," Testaverde said. "I'm trying to throw the ball incomplete, and a lot of the results were bad. So now they're telling me, 'Get rid of the ball. Don't take a sack.' And I've been through it before, and I know the end result. It's not going to help our team win. I'd rather take a sack and tuck the ball away and let them go 80 yards instead of 20."
He does not dwell on the past. The only positive aspect of this season was the stability that came with the departure of quarterback Chris Chandler. The future is all that remains.
"I'm a fairly young quarterback," he said. "I really haven't had any major injuries. I'm healthy. I feel that I'm still in my prime, and I think I can get better. I haven't reached my peak yet."
"The guy could emerge from the cocoon and be a fantastic quarterback," Krueger said. "I'd be the last guy to say his career is done or anything like that. I think it would be foolish for anybody to say that. But the product should be emerging from the cocoon soon."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tampa Bay quarterback Vinny Testaverde scrambling away from the Jets' pass rush earlier this season. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (94%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (94%); TAMPA BAY BUCCANEERS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); 

PERSON: TESTAVERDE, VINNY VINNY TESTAVERDE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



745 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 443 words

HEADLINE: A Parody of Banking Reform

 BODY:
Sadly, the only question remaining is how irresponsible the Congressional effort to reform the banking system will become. Committees in both houses have rejected the Administration's wise plan. Now they are littering flawed bills with one ugly amendment after another.
The best outcome would be for Congress to stop the farce. That means passing a simple bill pumping $150 billion into funds that pay off depositors at failed savings and loans and commercial banks -- and leaving comprehensive reform as the first order of business next year. 
 The Administration submitted a farsighted bank reform bill last winter. It would have allowed banks to tap new sources of profit, at lower risk, by permitting them to open branches anywhere in the country and sell securities, insurance and mutual funds. The bill would also have corrected the major flaw in current law by requiring authorities to close failing banks before they went bankrupt, thereby protecting funds backing up insured deposits.
Initially, the House Banking Committee adopted an improved version of the Administration's plan. But then lobbyists for the insurance and securities industries dismantled it piecemeal and Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady did precious little to salvage it. When the misshapen bill failed on the House floor, the committee produced a parody.
It would not allow banks to sell securities or insurance or open interstate branches. The Senate bill wouldn't allow entry into securities either; and it would grant interstate branching only at the price of taking away existing, severely limited rights to sell insurance.
The story gets worse. The Senate would put a cap on interest rates banks can charge on credit cards. The notion that Congress has to regulate prices in an industry with 6,000 competitors would embarrass even the Kremlin; and the cap would destroy a vital revenue source for banks wallowing in losses.
A House bill would rob other programs to replenish the fund backing insured depositors at failed savings and loan institutions. That's galling. A bank bailout is one program that Congress should finance by borrowing. By returning the loan to bank depositors, the money stays in private capital markets, insulating the economy from harm.
Rather than passing deformed reform that will harm the economy for decades, Congress could simply refund the insurance funds and fix the system next year. The U.S. is the only industrial nation, other than Japan, that keeps its banks out of securities and other financial industries. Asking Congress to bring banks into the 21st century might be too much. But why not into the 20th?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (52%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; EDITORIALS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; DEPOSIT INSURANCE BANKING & FINANCE (94%); BANK FAILURES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CREDIT CARDS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



746 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Police Dept. Has Questions to Answer About New 911 Plan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You, like all New Yorkers, are for "enhanced 911, enhanced safety" (editorial, Oct. 27), and you urge the City Council "not to delay a project that would save more lives and control more crime." Although the Police Department has released to the City Council its technical consultant firm's study, completed last March 15, the department has not offered an operating plan for the proposed new police communications system. 
 We believe the City Council's Committee on Public Safety is raising good questions about the proposed new 911 system.
While the Police Department advises that $26 million is required to install the automatic connection, number and location identification, and selective routing provided in the state legislation authorizing the telephone charge, it has decided to seek a much broader communication system, estimated to cost $203 million. An improved, more modern system is a good idea, but it is also appropriate for the City Council, the public and you to ask the Police Department to present a specific overall plan.
The technical consultant's report provides selective information about certain basics (size of the facility and its requirements, alternate sites, details of the equipment to be purchased, alternative equipment choices, information about what the equipment will do, how it will be used, what quantity to purchase).
Specific answers are needed to some questions. While a certain amount of back-up is important, why does the Police Department need a completely redundant system, estimated to cost $57 million, or about 40 percent of the basic system cost? Can the equipment be installed in modular steps, or only all at once, as Commissioner Lee Brown has advised? Why will it take four years for the expanded system to be operational?
What management and monitoring systems will assure completion of this project in the proposed schedule? What is the financing plan? Should it be financed under the capital budget or under this legislation? If financed by a telephone charge, will that begin now or when the equipment is purchased? Will the capital expenditure have a payback measured by cost saving? How will the system coordinate with other city departments, including the Transit Police?
How will this plan affect the operating budget? Should an increasing number of 911 calls and appropriate police responses be assumed, with implications for space selection and communication system personnel?
How will this program help resolve police operating issues of 911 cars and call responses? How will it be integrated with other programs, such as the effort to "demarket" 911 calls? Should there be a 912 number for nonessential calls, as in Los Angeles? What will the impact be on the "safe streets, safe city" program, and will it save personnel, speed implementation and reduce the economic cost?
The chairman of the Public Safety Committee has indicated that, if necessary, the City Council would help pay for consultants to answer these questions. Once the Council has this information, it will be able to evaluate the merits of the Police Department proposal.
 
BUD H. GIBBS
RAYMOND D. HORTON
New York, Nov. 6, 1991
 
The writers are, respectively, chairman, Citizens Budget Commission's municipal services committee, and commission president.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available POLICE FORCES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); TELEPHONE RATES (88%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



747 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: Why We Might Regret Grain Generosity

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 For some time, voices have been raised in the United States favoring massive food aid to the Soviet Union, most notably the voice of Agriculture Secretary Edward R. Madigan. True, Mr. Madigan's voice has been muted lately. But he has a large constituency in favor of massive shipments of wheat, corn and soy beans. The legislation for such is already in existence. 
 To explain: America's largess of grain can be given to any country of the President's choosing at negotiated interest rates, with as long as three years to pay, under the Commodity Credit Corporation Act.
Under this act, President Nixon enabled Soviet grain buyers to wipe out our emergency wheat reserves in the single month of July 1972. A sharp increase in United States food prices followed this grain-on-credit move.
Such dollar-denominated credits are guaranteed by the Commodity Credit Corporation, which gets its funds from the Agriculture Department's annual budget of more than $40 billion, financed by the Treasury. The recipient country may be careful never to default on the loans. But the loans are continuously additive to the Federal budget deficit, at least from one accounting year to the next.
The Soviet Union is the largest importer of corn from the United States. Because of unusual drought conditions in the corn-producing areas of the Midwest, the United States corn harvest this year may be low. A massive offtake of corn and other food grains and feed grains at this time, as under President Nixon in 1972, may cause a sharp increase in food prices at home.
 
BEVERLY KITCHING
Springfield, Ill., Nov. 5, 1991

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT CORP GROUP LTD (57%); CREDIT CORP BRUNEI BHD (57%); CREDIT CORP SINGAPORE LTD (57%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (83%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (83%); COMMODITY CREDIT CORP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; FOREIGN AID COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GRAIN FARMING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GRAIN RESERVES (78%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); CORN FARMING (77%); WHEAT FARMING (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DROUGHT (72%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); NATIONAL DEBT (51%); 

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



748 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Health System Falls Short of Canada's

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Editorial opinion is not obliged to adhere closely to fact, but the sweeping allegations about Canadian health care in "Ringing: The Health Care Alarm" (editorial, Nov. 8) goes well beyond the norm of editorial license. What are the facts? 
 Regarding costs, as the June 1991 report of the United States General Accounting Office has stated, in 1971 both Canada and the United States spent about the same proportion of gross national product on health care, while in 1989 the United States share was 11.6 percent as against 8.9 percent in Canada.
In absolute terms, Canada spends $1,805 per capita while the United States spends $2,354 in United States dollars. This is quite an accomplishment given the cost challenges that are posed by Canada's large geography and relatively small population.
As for freeloading on technology, what precisely does that mean at a time when technology -- medical or otherwise -- knows fewer and fewer boundaries? Are Americans who use insulin, discovered and patented in Canada, "freeloading" on Canada? The Canadian Government funds its share of fundamental medical research, and Canadian researchers continue to make significant breakthroughs. One of the most notable was the discovery of the cystic fibrosis gene in 1990 at the Toronto Hospital for Sick Children.
Concerning the contention that Canadian women must wait months for Pap smears, this is simply untrue. Several years ago there was, for a brief time, a delay in laboratory processing for Pap smears in Newfoundland, but the wait was quickly reduced to a maximum of two or three days. Elsewhere in Canada, Pap smears continue to be done immediately upon request, as has always been the case.
Incidentally, and in a purely personal vein, I sought a regular medical checkup in Washington recently and was advised I would have one nine weeks later. Instead, I went to Ottawa and had one on three days' notice complete with lab tests immediately following the appointment.
You, and Americans generally, are free to decide whatever health care system to choose, avoid or adapt, but the choice is not assisted by opinions unrelated to fact.
 
D. H. BURNEY
Ambassador of Canada
Washington, Nov. 8, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (58%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

COMPANY: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CANADA; UNITED STATES CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); NEWFOUNDLAND & LABRADOR, CANADA (58%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); PATENTS (77%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (68%); CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS (51%); CYSTIC FIBROSIS (51%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: BURNEY, D H (AMB)

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



749 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: In the Nation;
Another Such Victory

BYLINE: By TOM WICKER

 BODY:
"I have a strong conviction that my ideas, these principles that I keep outlining . . . are what the American people want," President Bush told reporters the other day.
It was not readily apparent to some of us that Mr. Bush had any "principles," much less "a strong conviction." But, ever obliging, this kinder, gentler distributor of a thousand points of light quickly demonstrated that he really is a man of principle. To wit: He is absolutely, firmly, unalterably convinced that no doctor working in a federally financed clinic should have the right even to discuss abortion with a woman. 
 To prove it, the first American President to propose a constitutional amendment to limit free speech vetoed a bill that would have guaranteed free speech -- not to mention the usual doctor-patient relationship -- to medical men practicing in clinics that use Federal funds.
It remains to be seen whether this is a principle that "the American people want." Polls do not suggest that it is; it unites pro-choice activists with those who believe in free expression as well as all those who resent and fear political interference with sound medical practice.
Mr. Bush's ostensible "victory," when his veto was sustained in the House, may cause some Republicans to fear, in the words of King Pyrrhus after the battle of Asculum, that "another such victory and we are undone." A two-thirds margin is hard to obtain, and that those who opposed the President's heartless "principle" came within 12 votes of achieving it should be no cause for rejoicing in a White House that already had troubles enough.
The economy shows no sign of responding to Mr. Bush's petulant pleas for a capital gains tax. On the other hand, when he offered the innocent suggestion that credit-card interest rates were too high, the Senate mistakenly thought he must have known what he was talking about, and hastened to approve a rate cap. Before the House could rectify this goof, the bottom nearly fell out of the stock market; whereupon presumptuous reporters actually interrupted the President's golf game to get his opinion that the market plunge was no big deal. Neither, apparently, is 7 percent unemployment.
Mr. Bush's popularity keeps slipping. The deficit keeps rising. Incumbents are in trouble everywhere, and Harris Wofford showed in Pennsylvania that the middle class can be persuaded to go Democratic. Even a foreign policy President can't make Saddam Hussein go away.
The White House itself is divided about John Sununu, the high-flying chief of staff; some dislike him, while others can't stand him. With a re-election campaign coming up, neither James Baker, the Secretary of State, nor Lee Atwater, the late national chairman, will be able this time to provide political brainpower.
Pat Buchanan says he might run against Mr. Bush, putting the President under renewed pressure to prove that he's the right-winger's right-winger. David Duke, a chronic campaigner who styles himself a Republican and who derived national renown from public hysteria and from press and Presidential attention, also is talking about entering primaries vs. Mr. Bush.
On top of all that, there's this abortion thing. Mr. Bush not only vetoed free speech and nonpolitical medicine this week; earlier he refused, via veto, to allow the District of Columbia to use local funds to pay for abortions for poor women; to let a U.S. servicewoman or dependent abroad have an abortion in a military hospital, even if paid for privately; or to provide abortion funds for poor women who were victims of rape or incest. Nor would he sign legislation to allow the U.S. to contribute to other nations' family-planning programs.
And what about the Republican platform, which since 1980 has featured a plank calling for a constitutional amendment to prevent abortion? Next August in Houston, Mr. Bush's party, in the full glare of national television, will have to leave that proposal in its 1992 platform, or take it out. Either action will offend a lot of voters, and not just women.
Supreme Court watchers say it's unlikely Roe v. Wade will come before the Court in time for the Reagan-Bush majority to overturn it before the election. But with a cruel record like his, George Bush doesn't need another Court decision to make abortion a major issue against him in 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1992; VETOES (US); PUBLIC OPINION US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); VETO (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (75%); ABORTION (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (69%); TAX LAW (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (50%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); 

PERSON: WICKER, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); JOHN SUNUNU (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



750 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 21, 1991
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: GORBACHEV SEEKS EMERGENCY FUNDS, BUT RUSSIANS BALK

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 20

 BODY:
Armed with ever-gloomier details about the country's economic situation, President Mikhail S. Gorbachev appealed to a shrunken Soviet Parliament today to spend money it does not have to get through the winter.
But his plea for an emergency three-month appropriation, which would widen the total Soviet deficit to 300 billion rubles, was rejected by the Russian republic, which has already stopped most of its payments to the Kremlin budget as it gets ready to strike off on its own path of economic reform. 
 Mr. Gorbachev said the country as a whole was headed for catastrophe if the republics did not join in common political and economic policies. Already this year, he said, national income has dropped 15 percent, industrial production 7 percent, agriculture 9 percent, exports 31 percent and imports 42 percent.
 
Income Falls Short
 Other reports say that the Government has received about half the income it anticipated this year and that to keep the economy afloat has printed 83 billion rubles, 76 billion more than planned. In November and December alone, 30 billion more rubles are expected to come off Soviet printing presses, the official press agency Tass reported, quoting remarks by Vladimir Rayevsky, a Deputy Finance Minister, at a Government meeting.
The result is a budget deficit of 205 billion rubles, or 300 billion if the republic budgets are included. Calculated at the inflated official rate, that amounts to more than $500 billion.
 
U.S. to Send Food
 The real worth is more difficult to measure since the street value of the ruble is plummeting, but already the deficit has exceeded the most pessimistic predictions of last summer. Mr. Rayevsky put the Soviet Union's internal debt at 974 billion rubles.
[In Washington, amid rising fear of hunger and civil unrest in the Soviet Union this winter, the Bush Administration announced it would send about $1.5 billion worth of food aid, most of which would be channeled through the central Government. It would be the first large-scale American shipments of free food to the Soviet Union in seven decades. Page A18.]
As the deputy finance ministers of the world's leading industrial nations, known as the Group of Seven, meet here to discuss interim loans, credits and deferrals to help cope with foreign debt and to establish some degree of credit-worthiness, the disparate parts of the Soviet Union continue to debate who owes what and who needs whom. As new paradoxes pile onto old ones, the picture that emerges is of politics played at cross-purposes against a background of economic desperation.
 
A Plea for the Center
 Two weeks ago, before the State Council, Mr. Gorbachev warned that politicians had wasted the opportunities handed them in August with the defeat of the hard-line coup attempt. Today, before the Parliament's lower house, Mr. Gorbachev, the tireless prophet of union, again urged the republics to preserve a central state, however confederated.
But his preachings were heard by representatives of only 7 of the present 12 republics of the union, who were gathered in a forum that for most part is already ignored. The Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, is offering to keep some union agencies and institutions, like the Soviet Academy of Sciences, alive with Russian funds, even as he pulls republic funds out of the all-union budget. Last Saturday he issued a package of sweeping decrees on the Russian economy.
So far, eight and possibly nine republics have agreed in meetings with the industrial nations' representatives to shoulder their share of the Soviet debt. This was widely quoted at $68 billion until this week, when a new estimate from the Soviet Foreign Economic Bank put it at $100 billion.
 
Ukraine Demands Details
 Those republics that do not agree to take collective responsibility for the Soviet debts can expect a cold shoulder from the West, warned Grigory A. Yavlinsky, a leading Soviet economist who has been present at the meetings of the industrial powers -- the United States, Japan, Germany, France, Britain, Italy and Canada.
"They will be treated the same as those countries in the world which do not pay their debts," Mr. Yavlinsky said in an interview on Soviet national television tonight.
Vitold Fokin, Prime Minister of the Ukraine, said at the Kiev airport tonight that the Ukraine would withhold its signature on the joint debt agreement until it had been fully informed on the size of the debt and the extent of Soviet assets abroad. Without this information, he said, the document was "shameful" and "nonsense."
The independent news agency Interfax tonight reported that the representatives of the industrial powers, in their talks with republic leaders, discussed rescheduling $3.6 billion in debts and extending new credits worth $1 billion, taking 104 tons of gold as collateral. How much gold the Soviet Union still has in its reserves is a mystery, although Mr. Yavlinsky recnetly cited a figure of 240 tons.
Interfax also quoted Viktor Danilenko, the representative of Byelorussia, as saying that if it were not for a $500 million credit from South Korea, the Soviet Union's Foreign Economic Bank would already be bankrupt.
In their meetings here this week, Western creditors were reportedly pressing hard for uniform reforms and for common links to keep this sprawling land from falling apart under economic, social and nationalist pressures.
Mr. Gorbachev, in his hourlong speech today, argued that the West, fearing the breakup of a nuclear superpower, long ago understood the need for some form of union to survive. "But we do not understand this," said the Soviet President, who warned that unless a new state was formed in the place of the old Soviet Union, economic chaos and border clashes were sure to follow.
"We're already up to our necks with all this inefficiency, lifelessness, immobilization," he said. "The country is simply dying from this."
He argued that unity need not come at the expense of sovereignty, the catchword that first spawned the republics' quest for greater autonomy last year. Referring to the referendum on independence scheduled for Dec. 1 in the Ukraine, Mr. Gorbachev insisted that a yes vote should not mean the end of the union.
"Independence means the freedom to voluntarily take part in a process," he said. "I don't see a vote for independence as a vote for divorce."

CORRECTION-DATE: November 22, 1991, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, a front-page article yesterday about President Mikhail S. Gorbachev's speech to the Soviet Parliament carried an erroneous byline in some editions. It was by Celestine Bohlen.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Mikhail S. Gorbachev as he appealed to the Soviet parliament yesterday for an emergency appropriation. (Associated Press) (pg. A18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; RUSSIAN REPUBLIC (USSR) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); TRENDS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%); COUPS (50%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; GORBACHEV, MIKHAIL S

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1991



751 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Antitrust Play, And an Epilogue

BYLINE: By Leonard Silk

 BODY:
BROADWAY may never get to see it, but Walter Adams, Distinguished University Professor of Economics and former president of Michigan State University, and James Brock, Moeckel Professor of Economics at Miami University in Ohio, have written a play about antitrust policy that could have everybody but economists and lawyers rolling in the aisles.
Once they are past the non-sexy title, "Antitrust Economics on Trial: A Dialogue on the New Laissez-Faire," fans of the theater of the absurd will find themselves on familiar ground. The authors say their play exhibits "an absence of communication -- a terrifying diversity of utterances, with the actors on stage listening only to snatches and fragments of the dialogue, and responding as if they had not listened at all." 
 But if this is a dialogue of the deaf, it is not of the dumb. Characters talk away, using words that "border on the meaningless and lack authentic content."
The setting is a United States district court where a witness is being examined to determine his qualifications to testify as an expert in a merger case. The three characters are the Expert, an economist of the so-called New Learning, New Laissez-Faire, Anti-Antitrust, or Chicago school of economics; the Attorney, representing the Pro-Antitrust school of the University of Chicago of 30 years ago and earlier, and a Judge, of presumed neutrality.
Early in the play, the Attorney asks the Expert to state his area of expertise.
EXPERT: Price theory.
ATTORNEY: Could you define that please?
EXPERT: It is the science explaining rational economic behavior and the operation of markets. ATTORNEY: And what is its relevance to law?
EXPERT: Its relevance is much broader.
ATTORNEY: What do you mean?
EXPERT: In recent years, economists have used price theory more boldly in an effort to explain behavior beyond the narrow confines of the business world, and many noneconomists have followed their example. We have developed economic theories to explain racial discrimination, human fertility, crime, marriage and the family, divorce, suicide, drug addiction, politics, education, etc. The "etc." includes applications of price theory to sleep and murder. Indeed, economic theory is singularly useful for explaining all behavior involving scarce resources, both market and nonmarket, both monetary and nonmonetary.
The Attorney bridles and asks whether F. A. Hayek, a Nobel laureate in economics, has not "criticized your profession for what he calls its 'abuse of reason,' its penchant for engaging in 'scientism,' and its failure to recognize that imperfect knowledge is endemic to the human condition?" Has Hayek not derided economists for "aping the methods of the physical sciences, mindlessly misapplying them to socioeconomic phenomena and reaching absurd conclusions as a result?"
EXPERT: So he has.
"Antitrust on Trial" (Princeton University Press, 1991) remains unresolved at the end. The authors assert: "That is a task for the reader."
Here, then, is one reader's epilogue to the play:
JUDGE: How important is this issue?
EXPERT: Enormously important. With the acceptance of our doctrine by the Reagan Administration and its judicial appointees, we are reducing the role of Government to the bare minimum and taming the monster, antitrust. The virtual triumph of our doctrine has cleared the way for restructuring American industry, to make it more efficient and competitive in the world market.
ATTORNEY: I see it otherwise, Your Honor. The undermining of antitrust helped clear the way for the takeover orgy of the 1980's, put droves of once-sound corporations deeply in debt, many in jeopardy of bankruptcy, in pursuit of quick deals that profited only the deal makers, diverted billions and billions from solid investment in new plant and equipment or research and development, dragged productivity, hurt consumers, damaged America's competitiveness, injured our economy in ways from which it will take years to recover.
The old Chicago doctrine held that Government should stay out of the marketplace except to prevent monopoly and excessive concentration of power. But the new laissez-faire doctrine, in the name of market freedom, accepts monopoly as a lesser evil than Government interference. I plead for the old doctrine of Frank Knight, my revered teacher at Chicago, to whom this play is dedicated.
JUDGE: I declare the old, pro-antitrust doctrine the winner. To best serve the broad public interest, the capitalist system needs both competition and regulation -- competition that is as free and widespread as possible, but regulation and antitrust action when monopoly rears its anticompetitive head and market failure occurs. Witness dismissed.
EXPERT: (sotto voce) Outrageous! Incompetent! I'm going to take this to the Supreme Court.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); THEATER (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (79%); THEATER & DRAMA (79%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EXPERT WITNESSES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); WITNESSES (77%); WRITERS (77%); TESTIMONY (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); DEAFNESS (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); RACE & RACISM (50%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (50%); 

PERSON: ADAMS, WALTER (PROF); BROCK, JAMES (PROF); SILK, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



752 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 636 words

HEADLINE: Dow Posts Gain of 2.68, To 2,932.69

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Stocks edged up in choppy trading, as sellers and buyers ended yesterday's session in a near standoff. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 2.68 points to close at 2,932.69, and that firmness characterized the broad market as well.
Analysts said the market was reaching an oversold condition that could set the stage for a bounce, with investors likely to sell going into a rally. 
 Investors remain skittish about holding large equity stakes or taking on new positions after their rough ride in the last few days, traders said.
 
Advancing Issues Hold Edge
 Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was 196.2 million shares, unchanged from Wednesday. Gaining issues held a slight advantage over declining issues at 842 to 804.
Bernard Spilko, senior vice president of the New York branch of Bank Julius Baer, called yesterday's session a good two-way market with both buyers and sellers seemingly happy. "Those wishing to accumulate value issues, and those selling what they consider overvalued, kept the market moving and fairly even, as evidenced by the ratio of advances to declines, which was almost even," he said. "I think the market is preparing its next move.
"Yesterday, each time the market reared its head, it was knocked down, and it happened a number of times. I think the resistance came from the institutions, which were selling on market upticks. And what that did was take away the market's ability to bounce higher." He said the next possible test might come at the 2,850 level on the Dow. That is the base point that most traders are using as the possible market floor.
In early trading, stocks recovered from a report of an unexpected jump in weekly jobless claims; the market had been expecting a flat number.
The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 1.53, to 380.06, while the New York Stock Exchange composite was up 0.78, to 210.21. Trading on the American Stock Exchange carried the composite up 1.24, to 376.05.
Nasdaq stocks bounced higher yesterday, rising 4.21 points, to 530.33, and the Russell 2,000, a barometer of small stocks, rose 0.61 point, to 178.75.
In afternoon trading, stocks followed a drop in bond prices, as nervousness emerged in the credit markets over the possibility that the Government might enact new fiscal-stimulus measures.
The stock market was also responding to the latest survey by the National Association of Business Economists, which showed its members are less optimistic about the recovery than they had been in August. Fewer than 10 percent of the members participating in the survey expected a "double dip" recession; the rest foresaw a "subdued" recovery, at about half the usual rate of expansion.
 
Campbell Soup Rises
 Company news affected trading in some issues. Campbell Soup rose 4, to 76, as the company raised its quarterly dividend on common stock and declared a 2-for-1 stock split. The dividend went to 35 cents a share on a pre-split basis from 29 cents.
 Traders said Eastman Kodak opened lower on news that a heart-failure treatment made by the company's Sterling Winthrop unit might increase the risk of death. The findings were from a nationwide team of researchers reporting on the drug Milrinone, which is still considered experimental and has not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. STill, the stock closed up 1/8, to 45 5/8.
 Occidental Petroleum's shares fell 1/8, to 19 7/8, as the chairman, Ray Irani, said the company had sold $2.6 billion in assets since January and was on track to complete a $3 billion debt reduction by the end of 1992.
 At an analysts' meeting yesterday, the Coastal Corporation, a natural gas distributor, indicated that its fourth-quarter performance might be below the analysts' estimates. The stock fell 2 3/8 to close at 27 1/2.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); BONDS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%); RECESSION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (63%); BANK BRANCHES (54%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



753 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Another Rise In Filings By Jobless

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
In still another portrayal of economic distress, first-time claims for state jobless benefits climbed for the third straight week, to 493,000, the highest level since April, the Labor Department reported today.
The surge of 39,000 for the week ended Nov. 9 intensified concern about the sustainability of the economy's recovery, even though analysts regard claims figures with considerable suspicion. 
 "They leave no doubt that the United States remains mired in a serious recession," said Lacy H. Hunt, chief economist in this country for the Hongkong Bank Group. "There is every reason to be concerned about prospects for the Christmas selling season."
 
Fears of a Contraction
 While Mr. Hunt is gloomier than most, today's figures did point to the growing possibility that the economy could contract again in the fourth quarter after advancing in the summer with the aid of inventory-building in the automobile industry.
The latest increase in claims, which in part reflected bad weather in the Midwest, pushed the total of newly jobless people back to levels recorded in the spring. The Nov. 9 week was the worst since April 20, when 500,000 people on a seasonally adjusted basis filed initial claims.
The four-week average, which is preferred by analysts, rose by 10,200, to 443,500, well under the peak of 511,500, recorded in the period ended March 23, but above the 403,000 low point, recorded for the four weeks ended July 20.
Today's results, which had been expected to show a small decline in first-time claimants, caused some analysts to lower their expectations for the department's monthly report on the labor market, due Dec. 6.
Ian Borsook, an economist at Merrill Lynch, said he now expects a decline of perhaps 15,000 in payroll jobs for November instead of a small gain. The monthly report is based on surveys conducted during the week that includes the 12th day of the month.
With Congress on the verge of passing legislation extending unemployment benefits to workers out of a job for six months or more, there was less complaint than usual from Capitol Hill about the unemployment level. But both parties scheduled policy statements for Friday on the economy, and the Democrats in particular are expected to renew their criticism of the Bush Administration when the unemployment bill goes to the White House.
The claims report to be published on Wednesday coincides with the monthly survey week but will be hard to interpret, analysts said, because of the Veterans Day holiday, when offices were closed. The figures are adjusted for seasonal variation but not for holidays.
Of the rise of 39,000 in claims in the latest week, 7,421 of the increase came from Minnesota, more than double its previous figure, largely because of a loss of construction jobs during a blizzard. Michigan was the second worst affected, posting an increase of 7,307 substantially related to cutbacks in automobile production.
Pennsylvania and New York had claims increases of 4,538 and 4,073, respectively, while claims in Wisconsin rose 3,192 during the first full week of this month.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Growing Problem" shows the number of unemployment claims filed in the week ended Nov. 9. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CHRISTMAS (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); LEGISLATION (66%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



754 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Off on Jobless Report, Then Regains Some Ground

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar was mixed against other currencies yesterday after a jump in initial claims for unemployment insurance provided further evidence of a weakening economy.
The Labor Department said initial claims for state unemployment insurance surged by 39,000 to just under the half-million mark in early November. Some economists said the news was a further sign that the economic recovery had stalled. 
 The dollar fell in response to the report, which raised the possibility of lower interest rates. Lower yields could depress demand for American investments and, in turn, the dollar.
But the dollar regained some ground in late trading. Kevin Logan, the chief economist with the Swiss Bank Corporation, said the dollar's decline "was no big deal, compared to what could have happened."
He added, "People think it's cheap, so it's not falling out of bed."
In New York yesterday, the dollar fell to 129.60 Japanese yen, from 129.80 yen late Wednesday. Overnight in Tokyo, before the unemployment claims report was released, the dollar rose to 129.55 yen, from 129.40 yen, and in London, it was quoted at 129.50 yen.
The British pound lost ground to the dollar, falling to $1.7915, from $1.7977 in New York late Wednesday. But sterling was up in London, rising to $1.7968, from $1.7945.
Other late rates for the dollar in New York, compared with those of late Wednesday, included: 1.59875 German marks, down from 1.6000; 1.4215 Swiss francs, up from 1.4200; 5.4610 French francs, down from 5.46575; 1,208.00 Italian lire, unchanged, and 1.13655 Canadian dollars, up from 1.13555.
In Europe, the other late dollar rates, compared with those of late Wednesday, included: 1.5960 German marks, down from 1.6025; 1.4180 Swiss francs, down from 1.4223; 5.4515 French francs, down from 5.4758; 1.7998 Dutch guilders, down from 1.8055; 1,206.50 Italian lire, down from 1,210.25, and 1.1355 Canadian dollars, down from 1.1360.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK CORP (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%); TOKYO, JAPAN (54%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BRITISH POUND (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



755 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES/OPTIONS;
Gold Rises to 4-Month High After Deal on Soviet Debt

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Gold prices rose yesterday after Western nations agreed to allow the Soviet Union to defer payments on its foreign debt.
Traders said the repayment delays would ease pressures on the country to sell off part of its big gold supply. 
 The December gold contract rose $3.90, to $368.60 an ounce, on the Commodity Exchange in New York, the highest level in nearly four months.
Analysts said Soviet sales of gold and other precious metals might decline after seven leading industrial nations agreed to the one-year deferral on $3.6 billion in debt payments.
"A move like this was expected, considering the orderly, step-ladder climb the market's been making in the last few weeks," said Marty McNeill, an analyst at the Sinclair Group.
The rally carried December gold to a peak of $370.70, a level not reached since late August.
Questions about Soviet gold holdings have buffeted the metals market since the aborted coup in August as differing reports circulated about the size of the gold reserves and whether the Soviet leadership might sell or stockpile production.
Other factors, including the status of the American economy and the political strife affecting mines in South Africa, have also come into play in the metals, analysts said.
The recent plunge in the American stock market caused investors to bid up metals prices as they sought a "safe haven" for their money.
December silver gained 4.3 cents, to $4.125 an ounce, and January platinum rose $1.10, to $374.30, at the New York Mercantile Exchange.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, grain prices ended mostly lower after traders were left unimpressed by the Bush Administration's offer of $1.25 billion in loan guarantees to the Soviet Union so that it could buy American grain.
January soybeans declined 4.75 cents, to $5.59 3/4 a bushel; December corn slipped half a cent, to $2.41 1/4 a bushel, and December wheat lost 1.5 cents, to $3.65 1/2 a bushel.
On Wednesday, wheat prices soared more than 13 cents a bushel at the Chicago Board of Trade in anticipation of a deal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; GOLD; PRICES; CREDIT GOLD MARKETS (93%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FUTURES (90%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); PLATINUM MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); CORN MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SILVER MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (59%); COUPS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



756 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Security Prices Mixed

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, as short-term issues benefited from an extremely large increase in initial unemployment claims during the week ended Nov. 9.
However, long-term bond traders were unsettled by a report by Market News Service that the Bush Administration has discussed providing tax credits to consumers who buy domestically produced automobiles. The White House subsequently issued a denial, which was published by Reuters. Rumors that Japanese investors were selling long-term zero coupon bonds did not help, either. 
 "If you are using the long bond as a proxy for the market, you are missing the boat," said Joseph Liro, a senior vice president and money market economist at S. G. Warburg & Company. "In truth, this is a bifurcated market. The long end has no friends, whereas the short end remains well bid."
The big increase in unemployment claims, which rose to 493,000 in the week ended Nov. 9, up by 39,000 from the previous week, stunned most analysts, even though some of the increase was probably caused by abnormally cold, snowy weather in the Middle West.
Analysts and traders said the numbers increased the chances that November's employment report, due out in early December, will be weak, and that the Federal Reserve Board will likely ease short-term interest rates once again.
Analysts said the stimulative effects of such a fiscal step would not be terribly great, and would be far outweighed by negative reaction from Japan and other major trading partners.
Nevertheless, some traders preferred to view the report as another trial balloon from an Administration that appears increasingly intent on adopting policies that will foster more rapid growth. And traders continue to believe that stimulative fiscal policy, coupled with a lax monetary policy, will inevitably lead to higher inflation.
That view has pushed yield differentials between two-year notes and 30-year bonds out to more than 250 basis points, or more than 2.50 percentage points.
But some analysts said the market's fears were overstated, and that bonds were a terrific buy.
"Bond investors are being presented with an unbelievable opportunity," said Robert Goodman, a senior vice president at the Putnam Companies, the big Boston money management firm.
"The real risk the economy faces is deflation, not inflation."
That view was not widespread yesterday, as bond yields moved back up toward 8 percent.
By late in the session, the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 100 10/32, down 7/8 point, to yield 7.97 percent, compared with 7.89 percent late Wednesday.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 22/32, down 10/32, to yield 7.40 percent. But prices of the 6 percent two-year notes rose by 2/32, to 100 31/32, to yield 5.46 percent.
Rates on short-term Treasury bills moved lower.
 
3-Months Bill Offering
 Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.41 percent late yesterday, down six basis points, or six one-hundredths of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates fell by four basis points, to a late offered rate of 4.49 percent.
New-issue activity in the tax-exempt municipal bond market continued to be heavy, as underwriters led by Merrill Lynch & Company priced a $1.6 billion offering of New Jersey Turnpike Authority securities.
Proceeds from the negotiated sale will be used to refund securities originally issued in 1985.
Serial bonds offered in the sale were preliminarily priced with yields ranging from 5 percent on serial bonds maturing in 1994 to 6.55 percent in 2006.
The largest part of the issue, $378 million worth of noncallable term bonds, was initially priced to yield 6.75 percent.
Bankers involved in the transaction said that demand for the securities was very strong.
The issue is rated A by Moody's Investors Service and A by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
 
Investment-Grade Bonds
 The investment-grade corporate bond market also absorbed a large number of new debt securities.
Among the issuers was the Republic of Ireland, which offered $200 million worth of 10-year notes through an underwriting group led by Merrill Lynch & Company.
The 7 7/8 percent notes, which mature Dec. 1, 2001, were priced at $99.15, to yield 8 percent, 61 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7 1/2 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated AA-3 by Moody's and AA-minus by Standard & Poor's.
Goldman, Sachs & Company acted as lead manager for a two-part, $300 million offering from ITT Hartford Group Inc.
The issue consisted of $100 million worth of 5-year notes, and $200 million worth of 10-year notes.
 
Five-Year Securities Priced
 The 7.25 percent five-year securities were priced at $99.813, to yield 7.295 percent, 78 basis points over the prevailing when-issued yield on the new five-year Treasury notes to be sold next week.
The 8.30 percent 10-year notes were priced at $99.865, to yield 8.32 percent, 95 basis points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7.50 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing. These securities are noncallable for life. 
Both parts of the issue are rated A-1 by Moody's and AA- by Standard & Poor's.
In other developments, the Federal Reserve Board reported yesterday that all three measures of the nation's money supply rose during the week ended Nov. 11.
The gains were largely in line with analysts' expectations, and the report had little noticeable impact on prices in the credit markets.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds, and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from Aug.-Nov. 1991. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT S G WARBURG & CO LTD (70%); PUTNAM COS INC (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; CREDIT; MONEY SUPPLY (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); BONDS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); MONEY SUPPLY (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DEFLATION (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (73%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



757 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Aid Voted For Deposit Insurance

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Both the House of Representatives and the Senate passed legislation today to shore up the bank deposit insurance fund, prodded by the worry that the failure to act soon could cause severe runs at banks and by weariness at weeks of debate.
But significant differences remain between the measures, and reconciling them will not be easy, lawmakers and lobbyists said. 
 The House bill, which was approved 344 to 84, was stripped of any of the proposals the Bush Administration put forward in February for rolling back more than a half-century of restrictions on the ability of industrial companies to own banks and of banks to enter the securities and insurance industries.
 
Crossing State Lines
 But the Senate measure contains a limited version of the White House's request to give banks greater ability to open branches across state lines. The Senate measure would also tighten existing curbs on banks' ability to enter the insurance business.
"The House has twice rejected a similar bill, so I think it will be a tough conference," said Edward Yingling, senior lobbyist for the American Bankers Association, referring to meetings between House and Senate negotiators that could begin as early as this weekend.
The lawmakers have been hoping to leave for the year by Thanksgiving, but they cannot end the session without acting on the banking legislation because the bank insurance fund is expected to be insolvent by the end of next month. The fund, created during the Depression and run by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has been crippled by the largest number of bank failures in recent years.
 
With Less Fanfare
 The Senate approved its measure shortly after the House had acted, but with significantly less fanfare. Fewer than a dozen senators were on the floor when it was adopted by a voice vote. Treasury officials were smiling in the hallways after the vote, confident that they would be able to prevail in conference.
The Administration has asked for a $70 billion increase in the insurance corporation's credit line with the Treasury, now $5 billion. The Administration says borrowings will be repaid by the banks, with some money coming from the sale of assets from banks seized by the Government.
Twice in the last three weeks, the House rejected legislation that would have provided the fund with the money the Administration says it needs because of differences over other provisions.
Both those bills also had provisions on interstate banking. The first was soundly defeated on Nov. 4, after heavy Administration and industry lobbying. Many lawmakers concluded that the legislation represented a step backward not forward, because of provisions making it harder for banks to enter the securities and insurance industries than it is now.
The second measure, which failed last week, would have given banks some new authority to expand geographically, but would have imposed more severe limits than now exist on their ability to sell insurance or invest in real estate.
The latest version, which the White House said yesterday it supported to "move forward with the legislative process," also gives regulators greater authority to close ailing banks and supervise foreign institutions, restricts the Government policy of bailing out banks considered too big to fail, and limits some banks from entering the insurance business.
The Senate measure also tightens existing regulations by permitting the officials to seize banks before they are insolvent. And like the House bill it would also require bank auditors to inform regulators of any financial wrongdoing they find.
The House bill was approved by 209 Democrats and 135 Republicans and opposed by 54 Democrats, 29 Republicans and the House's sole Independent, Bernard Sanders of Vermont. It was opposed by two powerful interest groups, the American Bankers Association and the Independent Insurance Agents of America, but like the Administration, they did not campaign against it, hoping to prevail in conference.
The House vote had been expected to be considerably closer, but as it became clear that it would pass, a large number of Republicans joined the White House in supporting the bill.
In the Senate, however, even White House support was not enough to overcome lawmakers' qualms that a vote for what might later be seen as a bank bailout that would be damaging at the polls. Senator Dale Bumpers, Democrat of Arkansas, was dissuaded by Senator Donald W. Reigle Jr, the Michigan Democrat who sponsored the legislation, from asking for a roll-call vote, which would have put senators on record.
"An awful lot of people don't want to vote for $70 billion for the bank fund," Mr. Reigle told reporters afterward, commenting on the voice vote. "There is a great concern that might not be enough."
In both houses many lawmakers pointed to the sluggish economy and recent market declines as additional reasons to act promptly.
"A little more than a month from now, when we are in our home districts, the fund that insures the deposits at 12,300 banks across the nation will be insolvent -- dead broke without a penny to pay off depositors," said Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, the Texas Democrat who heads the House Banking Committee.
Senate passage followed the House action by less than an hour. Aides said the Senate moved so swiftly in part because managers of the bill feared some lawmakers might move to drop the broader Senate version for the narrower House measure.
Earlier in the day, two disagreements in the Senate were resolved by splitting the difference. Senator William V. Roth Jr., a Delaware Republican, had opposed a provision that would have prevented his state from serving as the home to affiliates of several large banks, notably Citicorp and Bankers Trust, that sell insurance. Mr. Roth agreed to a provision prohibiting any new banks from entering the business.
And Senator Richard P. Bryan, Democrat of Nevada, agreed to drop a provision that would have extended the time during which shareholders can sue executives and directors of corporations for securities fraud. But the legislation explicitly says the limitations stated in the court case, Lampf v. Gilbertson, will not apply to cases that have already been filed, like the ones brought by investors against Michael R. Milken, the former Drexel executive now serving a 10-year sentence for securities fraud.
The Senate measure also includes a 14 percent cap on the interest that banks can charge credit card customers, but it is not expected to remain in the final legislation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (66%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (66%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DEPOSIT INSURANCE; INSURANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS; BANK BRANCHING LEGISLATION (94%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); DIVESTITURES (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); BONDS (60%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); LABATON, STEPHEN

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



758 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
The House and the Senate passed legislation to replenish the deposit insurance fund. But significant differences remain between the measures and reconciling them will not be easy, lawmakers and lobbyists said. [Page D1.] 
 First-time claims for state jobless benefits climbed for the third straight week, to 493,000, the highest level since April, the Labor Department said. [D1.]
A Federal undercover agent in the case against B.C.C.I. told a Senate subcommittee of his frustration that the investigation did not go further. [D1.]
The pay-as-you go means of providing money for the savings bailout was approved by a House committee but will probably not be permitted to go to the full House because it stands little chance of passage, House Speaker Thomas S. Foley said. [D2.]
The F.C.C. approved broad new pricing policies that will allow local telephone customers to pick and choose among a wide array of new network features. [D2.]
A tentative plan to swiftly restore telephone service when accidents like the breakdowns by A.T.& T. occur was proposed by a panel convened by Mayor David N. Dinkins. [D2.]
 
Companies
The disappearance of Cascade International's chief shareholder and chief executive has business associates wondering about the future of the women's clothing and cosmetics chain. [D1.]
Frank King left Lotus Development. He was the overseer of the company's technological strategy for nearly four years, and the man selected to replace him, John Landry, an executive at Dun & Bradstreet, surprised many analysts. [D1.]
Opponents of incineration as a way to dispose of municipal trash won a victory, when an appeals court ruled incinerator ash must be treated as a hazardous waste if it fails toxicity tests. [D1.]
Pan American World Airways posted a $150.3 million loss in the period, compared with a $29.2 million loss last year. [D3.]
Overseas Shipholding Group signed a letter to form a venture with Kloster Cruise. [D3.]
USG announced a plan to restructure its debt through a proposal that includes a commitment of as much as $300 million of cash from outside investors. But the offer met with quick resistance from senior bank creditors. [D3.]
A group of banks led by National Westminster will meet on Monday with leaders of the Maxwell family's public and private companies, several bankers said. [D5.]
More than $4 billion of investor claims against former financiers like Michael R. Milken could be thrown out unless Congress takes action, the head of the S.E.C. said. [D6.]
 
Markets
Stocks edged up in choppy trading. The Dow rose 2.68 points, to close at 2,932.69. [D6.] Short interest rose 43.3 million shares in the month ended Nov. 15, to 762.4 million shares on the Big Board. [D4.]
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed as short-term issues benefited from an extremely large increase in initial unemployment claims during the week ended Nov. 9. [D20.]
The dollar was mixed against other currencies after a jump in initial claims for unemployment insurance. [D21.]
Gold prices rose after Western nations agreed to allow the Soviet Union to defer payments on its foreign debt. [D21.]
 
Today's Columns
Two professors have written a play about antitrust policy that could have everybody but economists and lawyers rolling in the aisles. Leonard Silk: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Stock prices of companies that make gambling and slot machines have been doubling and redoubling. Market Place. [D6.]
Consumer-product companies are choosing sides in the battle between two Christmas films. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D23.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OSG (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS483113 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (53%); NAICS483111 DEEP SEA FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4424 DEEP SEA DOMESTIC TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (53%); SIC4412 DEEP SEA FOREIGN TRANSPORTATION OF FREIGHT (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS SHIPHOLDING GROUP INC (53%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (53%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS LEGISLATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); COSMETICS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (62%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (50%); APPEALS (50%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



759 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: Anger Against Governors Reflected in 3-State Poll

BYLINE: By MARIA NEWMAN

 BODY:
Angry about tax increases imposed in troubled economic times, residents of New Jersey and Connecticut are taking out their discontent on their Governors, giving them generally dismal approval ratings in a New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll.
While only a quarter of those polled in the two states said they approved of their Governor's performance, New York's Governor, Mario M. Cuomo, received somewhat stronger support, with a 37 percent approval rating among residents of New York City and six surrounding New York counties. 
 And in contrast to the tax-focused unhappiness in the neighboring states, the New Yorkers offered a variety of complaints about their Governor.
But while New Yorkers' approval of Mr. Cuomo has been slipping for some time, almost half of those interviewed in the three states said they believed that he should run for President.
 
Squeezed by Demands
 The results reflect a national need to put the blame for the problems of the crippled economy on those who lead, as scores of incumbents learned when they were turned out of office on Nov. 5. They also underscore the deep discontent in the region, particularly in New Jersey and Connecticut, where residents feeling squeezed by demands to contribute more to state coffers have taken their anger to the streets and the voting booths.
"I think it has an awful lot to do with governing in a recession and the problems laid down at the door of an executive," said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist College Institute for Public Opinion in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
Conducted from Nov. 2 through Nov. 12, the Times/WCBS-TV News poll is based on telephone interviews with 3,212 adults throughout Connecticut, New Jersey, New York City and the surrounding counties of Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange and Putnam.
The low ratings of the Connecticut Governor, Lowell P. Weicker Jr., and his New Jersey counterpart, Jim Florio, rival those of two recent Presidents in times of crisis. In a Gallup Poll in July 1974, a month before President Richard M. Nixon resigned over the Watergate scandal, his approval rating sank to 24 percent. President Jimmy Carter received a 28 percent approval rating in a July 1979 Gallup Poll.
In Connecticut, where Mr. Weicker suceeded in winning approval of the state's first income tax after a tortuous budget battle, only 23 percent said they approved of the way he was handling his job; 64 percent disapproved.
In New Jersey, where Mr. Florio pushed through a $2.8 billion tax package in his first year in office, 26 percent of those polled said they approved of the way he was handling his job, and 59 percent said they disapproved. Two weeks ago, in what was generally seen as a judgment on the Democratic Governor, the Republicans won veto-proof control of the State Senate and General Assembly.
New York is now heading into another gloomy budget season -- the Cuomo administration announced just this week that the gap in next year's budget might increase to $3.6 billion. But without the burden of sudden and major tax changes, the New Yorkers polled were more split on Mr. Cuomo's performance, with 37 percent saying they approved and 44 percent saying they disapproved.
Those who disapproved of Governor Cuomo offered a variety of criticisms, from personal dislike to general job performance to his opposition to the death penalty. In both Connecticut and New Jersey, 51 percent of those who said they disapproved of their Governors cited taxes as the reason.
 
Support for Presidential Bid
 In spite of lukewarm support for the job Mr. Cuomo is doing, almost half of those interviewed in the New York metropolitan area, Connecticut and New Jersey said they believed he should run for President. The three-term Governor continues to say he has not yet decided whether to enter the race. And 59 percent of the New Yorkers polled said he should resign as Governor if he decided to run.
When they were asked who they would vote for, Mr. Bush or Mr. Cuomo, if the election were held today, 51 percent of New York City residents chose their Governor, and only 31 percent said they would cast their ballot for the incumbent. But the reverse was true in the suburbs, with more of those interviewed saying they would support Mr. Bush.
The Times/WCBS-TV News poll, which was devised to examine the life styles and political viewpoints of residents of the region, did not include any interviews with residents of upstate New York. However, a recent statewide poll of New York by the Marist Institute showed that Mr. Cuomo's approval rating in upstate New York was similar to that in the suburbs surrounding New York City.
The pain of the worsening economy was almost palpable in the voices of some of those polled who agreed to be interviewed afterward.
With one child and another one on the way, Doug Smoot of Stamford, Conn., and his wife want to move to a bigger house. They have had their current home on the market for a year, but have had no luck selling, even though they dropped the price to 20 percent below what they paid in 1986. Mr. Smoot was unequivocal in his disapproval of his Governor.
"Raising taxes is the only thing that Lowell Weicker has done that is of any consequence," Mr. Smoot said. "
In New Jersey, Mark Wileczek of West Deptford, a salesman for a chemical contractor, said higher sales taxes in his state have driven him to do his big-ticket buying in Delaware. Governor Florio has not been good for New Jersey, he said.
The Governors or their aides said that the economy has been their heaviest burden and that constituents were reacting to that frustration in giving them low marks.
At a news conference yesterday in Manhattan, Mr. Cuomo noted that his ratings have declined from an all-time high around the time of his re-election in 1986.
"I'm the same Governor, maybe even smarter, that I was when I set the all-time popularity record in New York State," he said. "I set every record there was in my victory. Now my polls are down there. Why? I'm the same guy. What changed? The news I have to deliver is now bad. And people hold you responsible for it."
Jon Shure, Mr. Florio's director of communications, also said the overall economy had more to do with the results than did the Governor's specific actions.
Mr. Weicker's press secretary, Avice Meehan, said the Governor was not worried by the low ratings in the poll. "As the Governor frequently says, you don't stand up and applaud the bill collector," she said. "The Governor has by circumstances been placed in the role of bill collector."


GRAPHIC: Do you approve or disapprove of the way Mario Cuomo is handling his job as Governor?
 
Approve: 37%
Disapprove: 44%
Don't know or no answer: 19%
 
Do you approve or disapprove of the way Lowell Weicker is handling his job as Governor?
 
Approve: 23%
Disapprove: 64%
Don't know or no answer: 13%
 
Do you approve or disapprove of the way Jim FLorio is handling his job as Governor?
 
Approve: 26%
Disapprove: 59%
Don't know or no answer: 16%
 
Numbers may not add up to 100 percent because of rounding.
 
How the Poll Was Conducted
Chart: "How the Governors Are Doing"
The latest New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted from Nov. 2 to 12 with 3,212 adults across the New York metropolitan region.
A total of 742 interviews were conducted throughout Connecticut, 632 throughout New Jersey, and 1,838 in downstate areas of New York State. The downstate New York sample included 824 interviews in New York City, 442 on Long Island, 429 in Westchester and Rockland Counties, and 143 in Orange and Putnam Counties.
The sample of telephone numbers called was generated by a computer, based on random digit dialing techniques. It was drawn by the Marketing Systems Group of Philadelphia.
Within each household, one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the poll.
The results have been weighted to take account of household size and number of telephone lines into each residence. Within each major geographical area, results have been adjusted for variations relating to race, sex and age. Then each of the samples was weighted on the basis of population size to reflect an accurate balance between geographical areas within the metropolitan region.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than a few percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adults in the respective populations: plus or minus four percentage points both for Connecticut and for New Jersey, three percentage points for New York City, five percentage points both for Long Island and for the Westchester-Rockland area. For the downstate New York area as a whole, with Orange and Putnam Counties also included, it was plus or minus three percentage points.
The potential sampling error for smaller subgroups is larger.
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (90%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES ELECTRONIC MEDIA CO (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CORP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES / MAGAZINE GROUP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES BROADCASTING SERVICE INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES SALES INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES DISTRIBUTION CORP (92%); NEW YORK TIMES SYNDICATION SALES CORP (92%); CBS CORP (90%); CBS NEWS DIVISION (59%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARIST COLLEGE (54%); MARIST COLLEGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; GOVERNORS (US) ; TAXATION POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); VETO (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CITIES (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); 

PERSON: NEWMAN, MARIA; FLORIO, JAMES J (GOV); WEICKER, LOWELL P JR (GOV) ; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) JIMMY CARTER (56%); RICHARD NIXON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



760 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1498 words

HEADLINE: White House Isolation;
An Image of Bush as a Captive of Top Aides Who Make Their Own Sweeping Decisions

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Haunted by the image of Ronald Reagan, George Bush vowed from the beginning of his Presidency that he would never be manipulated, isolated or surprised by his staff.
But in the last few weeks, the President has appeared to Republicans and Democrats alike as a wavering leader, a captive of a few top aides who make sweeping decisions on their own and leave him to try to clean up the mess. 
 "It's just causing distress and dismay among Republicans that's almost like a physical pain," said Eddie Mahe, a Republican consultant with strong ties to the White House. "It's almost schizophrenic, the way the President keeps lunging in different directions. They have to stop the hemorrhaging with this disarray, this lack of planning, this lack of thought, this lack of vision, this lack of coherency. George Bush is hurting himself every time he opens his mouth."
 
An Embarrassing Moment
 In an intensely embarrassing moment that Senator John C. Danforth, the Missouri Republican, likened to a horror movie, the White House today insisted that the President did not know that his legal counsel, C. Boyden Gray, had proposed reversing long-standing civil rights policies without consulting with Mr. Bush or the Cabinet members in charge of those policies.
What had started to become apparent before the Persian Gulf war seems even clearer now: This White House does not have a traditional policy making process or a coherent communications strategy.
 
Lacking Core Philosophy
 Whenever Mr. Bush is forced to concentrate on the domestic policy area where he feels less comfortable, he seems to have no core philosophy to fall back on, and the White House shows no talent for developing a long-range agenda or even for explaining its impromptu decisions to the public.
What is now being portrayed as Mr. Gray's foiled coup on civil rights, in which he took a page from the secretive and ad hoc management style of John H. Sununu, the White House chief of staff, was only the latest of several White House gaffes. First, without widely consulting with top political advisers, Mr. Bush and Mr. Sununu abruptly canceled the President's trip to Asia, giving the appearance of panic over opinion polls showing that Americans think the President spends too much time on foreign policy.
Then, Mr. Bush caused a furor about lower interest rates on credit card purchases by reading two sentences that Mr. Sununu wrote into a speech at the last minute without checking with any economic advisers.
Mr. Sununu has been spreading the word that he would control much of the 1992 re-election campaign from the White House before the President has even had a chance to pick his campaign leadership.
A political intimate of Mr. Bush reported that when he talked to the President last week, Mr. Bush conceded that he knew he had serious problems with his staff, but he had not yet decided how to handle them.
 
Sununu Is Unsettled
 The combative chief of staff, whose distaste for the press, Congress and even government itself is well known, showed that he was rattled today. After the Rose Garden signing ceremony for the Civil Rights Bill, he publicly criticized Ann Devroy, a White House reporter for The Washington Post, who first reported Mr. Sununu's role in the credit card episode.
"Your story today was a lie," he told a surprised Ms. Devroy, in front of others on the lawn, apparently referring to a front page piece about Mr. Sununu's inept orchestration of the credit card interest rates commotion. "Everything you write is a lie."
The article said that in inserting the call for lower rates, Mr. Sununu bypassed the usual procedures for approving Presidential policy statements. The failure to consult with economic policy officials set off a chain of events that some analysts say led to the stock market plunge on Friday, as investors unloaded banking stocks because of fears that the Government would place caps on credit card interest rates.
Even a White House that likes to identify any criticism as being a plot by the Democrats and the press is beginning to hear from fellow Republicans that Bush's top aides are squandering precious political capital as if on a "Thelma and Louise"-style spree.
"It's a critical period," said Edward Rollins, a Republican consultant. "As they start to feel the political heat, it's more important than ever not to mix messages and to look further down the road than what's for lunch tomorrow. If they can't communicate or connect with the voters to make them believe they understand their economic problems, it will give someone else the chance to."
White House officials defend the President's inaction, his insistence on clinging to the status quo when the political and economic ground is shifting fast, by saying that Mr. Bush is convinced that the economy will improve if left alone. But they concede that they have been unable to find a way to turn "just wait" into an attractive message for voters.
 
Carving Up Policy
 As one top Bush aide said: "If the economy comes back in six months, nothing else matters. If it doesn't, nothing else matters."
Mr. Sununu and Richard G. Darman, the budget director, have "carved up the world between them" on domestic policy, as one top Administration official puts it. And now Mr. Bush, who has always avoided the nitty-gritty of domestic policy in favor of the more glamorous foreign policy arena, seems to be guided by a few powerful and secretive aides who fight to get their own views across, in the absence of any controlling ideology on Mr. Bush's part.
Each has pet projects: Mr. Sununu fights to make abortion policy more conservative; Mr. Gray fights to make civil rights law more conservative and Mr. Darman uses the budget to try to make domestic policy.
Mr. Sununu and Mr. Darman, who sit at either end of the table at staff meetings, have formed a de facto alliance in which Mr. Sununu yields to Mr. Darman on a large number of budget and legislative matters and, in return, Mr. Darman does not butt into the management of the White House and the President. The partnership of these two men, both perceived as highly intelligent and imperious, has had a chilling effect on the free and energetic flow of ideas and proposals, said a dozen Administration officials and Bush intimates interviewed on the subject.
 
'There's a Lot of Secrecy'
 "It's hard to debate decisions because there's a lot of secrecy," said one top Administration official. "Sununu maximizes his influence by keeping others in the dark. He doesn't want any alternative sources of power."
Mr. Sununu and Mr. Darman do not want Mr. Bush's speechwriting office to be a place where ideas ferment, for instance, because that would make it an alternative power source, as it was in the Reagan years.
Mr. Sununu has worked so hard to avoid or hold at arm's length the kind of talents that might challenge him on politics or domestic policy that some Bush officials now derisively refer to the White House staff as "John Sununu and a thousand interns."
Even officials who are well thought of in Republican circles, like the press secretary Marlin Fitzwater, the image-maker Sig Rogich and the communications expert Dorrance Smith, have been discouraged in attempts to develop an effective communications strategy.
Worried Republicans have grown increasingly bold about trying to pierce Mr. Sununu's protective wall and get their message of alarm to the President. But even White House officials with impressive titles who have tried to talk to the President to suggest that he might be taking the wrong course politically or economically report their experience afterwards with the same nervous phrase: "Sununu glared at me the whole time."
 
Strong Dislike for Sununu
 Or, as another top Bush aide put it this week: "Sununu just doesn't want anyone else in the mix."
Some Bush officials fear that the dislike of Mr. Sununu has become so intense and widespread that it is serving as a magnifying glass for all the criticism of Mr. Bush.
Echoing the common complaint among Republicans that Mr. Sununu is smart but not street smart on political matters, Mr. Rollins drily noted: "Sununu is living proof that you shouldn't give children their I.Q. test results because then they go through life thinking they're smart."
Eddie Mahe agreed, saying: "I never thought George Bush could ever be isolated. I never thought he'd let John Sununu take his telephone away."
Those who know Mr. Bush point out that while he does not like confrontation and while he always tries to split the difference, he is capable of being ruthless about personnel once he decides he is being damaged.
"He may not come around to focusing on the thing at the exact moment that friends and advisers tell him to, and sometimes it looks like he may be delaying," said Vic Gold, Mr. Bush's former speechwriter and co-author of his biography, "Looking Forward." "But suddenly, very quickly, he strikes."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attending the signing of the Civil Rights bill at the Rose Garden of the White House were, clockwise from top left, John H. Sununu, White House chief of staff, Senators Arlen Specter and Alan K. Simpson, an unidentified woman and C. Boyden Gray, White House counsel. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) (pg. A20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; HIRING AND PROMOTION; DISCRIMINATION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) ; WOMEN; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1991; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES LEGISLATION (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); CONSULTING SERVICES (75%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); RELIGION (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); DESERT STORM (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); HORROR FILMS (52%); INTEREST RATES (50%); COUPS (50%); 

PERSON: DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES); GRAY, C BOYDEN ; GRAY, C BOYDEN GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



761 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: SECURITY COUNCIL SELECTS EGYPTIAN FOR TOP U.N. POST

BYLINE: By PAUL LEWIS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Boutros Ghali, Egypt's 69-year old Deputy Prime Minister, was unanimously recommended to become the next United Nations Secretary General by the 15 members of the Security Council tonight and appeared set to win final approval from the 166-nation General Assembly.
Mr. Ghali would become the first Arab and the first person from Africa to hold the top post at the United Nations. He would replace Javier Perez de Cuellar of Peru, who has said he wants to step down at the end of this year after serving two five-year terms in the post. 
 The Council closed ranks to give Mr. Ghali its unanimous endorsement tonight after 11 members had cast their ballots in his favor on an earlier vote and none of the five members with permanent seats -- the United States, Britain, France, the Soviet Union and China -- used a veto. Four members abstained.
 
Votes for Rivals
 Mr. Ghali's two closest rivals for the $185,000 post, Zimbabwe's Finance Minister, Bernard Chidzero, and Olusegun Obasanjo, a former Nigerian head of state, each got seven votes in this first official Council ballot, or two less than the nine needed to force a runoff against Mr. Ghali.
No General Assembly vote was immediately scheduled, but diplomats said approval is a foregone conclusion in view of the Security Council's unanimous endorsement and the fact that he was one of six official African candidates nominated for the post by the Organization of African Unity and endorsed by the 106-member non-aligned movement.
 
Campaign for African
 African countries had mounted a successful campaign to choose one of their own as the next Secretary General. But during the political maneuvering that led up to tonight's vote, several black African diplomats made clear that they preferred a black African over Mr. Ghali.
"I'm very glad we have a new Secretary General and that no negative votes were cast against him," France's United Nations representative, Jean-Bernard Merimee, said as members left the closed-door meeting.
Britain's representative, Sir David Hannay, described the choice as "excellent" though he declined to say whether Britain voted for him on the first secret ballot.
He said the result showed the Security Council has entered "a new era" because no vetoes were cast during the selection process in 1981 when "the floor was littered with vetoes."
Egypt's United Nations representative, Nabil el-Araby, said it was "a great day for Africa, for the third world and for my own country."
Mr. Ghali, a Coptic Christian, is fluent in French, English and Arabic.
 
Question Raised on Age
 Although the United States and Britain both voted to recommend Mr. Ghali to the General Assembly this evening, American and British officials were saying openly until a few days ago that they felt he was too old for the job and that they would prefer a younger candidate, able to serve two terms.
Mr. Ghali, who is only a year younger than Mr. Perez de Cuellar, has said he is seeking the post for just a single five-year term.
Until recently American and British officials, and to a lesser extent those from the Soviet Union, also appeared opposed to any of the declared African candidates. They complained that none of them had the stature and political experience they felt the next Secretary General needs in the post-cold-war world when the United Nations is playing an increasingly important role in world affairs.
Instead, they said, the Security Council should "head-hunt the world" to find the best qualified man or woman.
But African countries insisted they had qualified candidates for the post and said that one of these should be chosen because Africa is the only major region of the world which has not yet provided a Secretary General.
 
3 Were From Europe
 Of the five previous Secretaries General, three -- Trygve Lie of Norway, Dag Hammarskjold of Sweden and Kurt Waldheim of Austria -- were Europeans, while U Thant of Burma, now Myanmar, came from Asia and Mr. Perez de Cuellar from the Western Hemisphere.
France supported Mr. Ghali from the start, while China made clear that it favored an African candidate.
Faced with this opposition, the United States and Britain appeared to change their attitude in recent days, diplomats say, apparently deciding that they could not prevent the election of an African Secretary General without severely damaging their political relations with the continent and that they could live with Mr. Ghali.
In an informal straw poll on Nov. 11, Mr. Chidzero emerged as the front-runner with 11 votes, followed by Mr. Ghali with 10 and Mr. Obasanjo with 8. But by tonight Mr. Ghali had moved into a decisive lead.
Diplomats suggested that once the United States realized that an African Secretary General was inevitable, it favored Mr. Ghali because he was the most sympathetic to its interests and was only seeking a single term. Although the first ballot was secret, some diplomats also suspect that Britain, perhaps the United States and two or more of the Council's African members were the four that abstained when Mr. Ghali's name was put to the vote.
The Security Council currently has three African members, the Ivory Coast, Zimbabwe and Zaire. In addition to the permanent members, the remaining nations with seats on the Council are Austria, Belgium, Romania, India, Yemen, Cuba and Ecuador.
Mr. Chidzero, a respected technician who sought successfully to dissuade Zimbabwe's white farmers from fleeing black-majority rule at independence, presided over an economy dominated by large Government-owned corporations. Some diplomats suspect the United States was one of the two countries that voted against him tonight, while another six abstained.
Among the other candidates, Kenneth K. S. Dadzie, a United Nations official from Ghana, received 6 votes, with 4 Security Council members voting against him and 5 abstaining; Michel Doo Kingue, a United Nations official from Cameroon, received 6 votes, with 4 against and 5 abstaining; James Jonah, a United Nations official from Sierra Leone, got 5 votes, with 5 against and 5 abstaining, and Msanze Terrence, a former Burundi diplomat, got 4 votes, with 4 against and 7 abstaining.
The leading non-African candidate, Foreign Minister Hans van den Broek of the Netherlands, got only 5 votes, with 7 against and 3 abstaining. Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, the United Nations official in charge of Persian Gulf war relief efforts, received 4 votes, with 7 against and 4 abstaining.
Nguema Francois Owono, a Gabonese official, was supported by 3 members, with 3 against and 9 abstentions.
Norway's Foreign Minister, Thorvald Stoltenberg, got just 2 votes, with 9 against and 4 abstentions, while the country's Prime Minister, Gro Harlem Brundtland, fared even worse, with a single favorable vote, 8 against and 6 abstentions. Poland's Foreign Minister, Krzysztof Skubiszewski, received 2 votes, with 8 against and 5 abstentions.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Deputy Prime Minister Boutros Ghali of Egypt yesterday in Bonn. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NIGERIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); 

CITY: ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (88%); BONN, GERMANY (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (54%); AFRICAN UNION (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (54%); AFRICAN UNION (54%); ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;EGYPT; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS; CHINA EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); NIGERIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT (88%); BONN, GERMANY (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); VETO (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); APPROVALS (77%); BALLOTS (74%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL; GHALI, BOUTROS (DEPUTY PRIME MIN) JAVIER PEREZ DE CUELLAR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



762 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-12
 
EGYPTIAN CHOSEN TO LEAD U.N.
 The Security Council unanimously recommended that Boutros Ghali, Egypt's Deputy Prime Minister, become the next United Nations Secretary General. Page A1
 Man in the News: Boutros Ghali, the first Arab to lead the U.N. A12
 
SOVIETS WIN DEBT DEFERRAL
 Rescuing the Soviet Union from the brink of default, creditor nations agreed to let it defer up to $6 billion in debt payments. A1
 Russian republic's President is warmly greeted in Germany. A10
 
HAITIANS DIE IN SHIPWRECK
 As many as 135 Haitians are believed to have died in a shipwreck while fleeing the country, Cuba's national news agency said. A1
 
WHITHER THE MIDEAST PARLEY?
 With Washington still the likeliest venue, Secretary of State James Baker and Israel's Prime Minister discussed where to hold direct Mideast peace talks. A3
 Israel's Labor Party adopted a more dovish platform. A3
 
FORTIFIED, BRITAIN FACES EUROPE
 The House of Commons gave Prime Minister John Major a vote of confidence for his tough negotiating position on European monetary and political union. A10
 
SOMALI FIGHTING CONTINUES
 Hundreds of people were reported to have been killed as rival factions continued to fight for control of Mogadishu, the capital of Somalia, for a fifth day. A9
 
TALKS SET IN SOUTH AFRICA
 South Africa's ruling party and its two major black organizations agreed to open talks on the country's future next month. A11
 
INDIA PRESSURED ON NUCLEAR ARMS
 A senior Bush Administration official arrived in India to press the Government to sign a nuclear non-proliferation treaty. The odds of success seemed remote. A8
 
TROOP CUTS HALTED IN KOREA
 Acting on reports that North Korea is close to producing weapons-grade plutonium, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney ordered a halt to U.S. troop cuts in South Korea. A7
 France vows to pursue charges that Libya plotted a jet bombing. A5
Salvador government stops aerial attack in response to truce. A6
 Managua Journal: Traffic jams and grapes signal recovery. A4
 
National A14-26
 
THE STORM ON CIVIL RIGHTS
 President Bush signed the civil rights bill but found himself embroiled in a political furor over his legal counsel's continuing effort to put a conservative interpretation on the new law. A1
 Minority-preference programs are an everyday part of the workplace. A20

A STUMBLING WHITE HOUSE
 News analysis: In the last few weeks, the President has appeared to Republicans and Democrats alike to be a wavering leader, a captive of a few leading aides who make sweeping decisions on their own and leave him to try to clean up the mess. A1

QUAYLE UNDER FIRE
 Democrats stepped up their attacks on Vice President Dan Quayle's Council on Competitiveness, and one House committee announced a conflict-of-interest investigation involving his staff. A14
 
ACCORD ON MEDICAID
 The White House and the nation's governors reached a tentative agreement on how to pay for health care for poor people. But the agreement faces stiff opposition from state legislators and hospitals, and it is not clear that Congress will approve it. A22
 
BANKING BILLS PASSED
 Both the House and the Senate approved measures to shore up the bank insurance fund, but big differences remain to be reconciled. D1
8
 
TESTIMONY ON B.C.C.I.
 A Federal undercover agent who helped build a money-laundering case against the Bank of Credit and Commerce International told a Senate panel of his frustration that the inquiry had not gone further. D1
 
WHEN THE WORKER IS BOSS
 Tough economic times face virtually all companies. But companies that are owned by their employees have special incentives to avoid harsh measures like layoffs. A24
 
THE DEALER AND THE ENVOY
 A former Colombian drug dealer said at the Noriega trial that an American diplomat had offered to let him ship drugs into the United States if he would help arm the contras. A16
 A Patriarch acts to heal divisions among American Orthodox. A14
 Washington Talk: The conservatives' dawn on the Supreme Court. A14
 
Law Page A28
 How do divorce lawyers rate a TV show about divorce lawyers?
 A Los Angeles prosecutor tries to keep a judge from judging
 
Metropolitan Digest, B1
 
STREET-REPAIR VIOLATIONS
 A top official in New York City's Transportation Department has been removed from his job amid revelations that city contractors used watered-down concrete and violated safety rules at three major street repair projects. A1
 
GOVERNORS IN DISFAVOR
 The Governors of Connecticut and New Jersey drew generally dismal approval ratings in a New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll. The main reason: tax increases. Governor Cuomo fared slightly better. A1
 
Business Digest, D1
 
Weekend C1-32
 
National Book Awards. C29
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
"Women in Beckett." C17
Film: At the Movies. C12
"The Addams Family." C1
"For the Boys." C12
"My Father Is Coming." C12
Music: A Baroque mix of seduction and devotion. C3
From Bobby (Blue) Bland. C26
Art: "Modernism" antiques show. C26
The Art Market. C26
Word and Image: Critic's Notebook. C1
"The Spyglass Tree," a novel. C29
TV Weekend. C30
 
Obituaries A29
 
Harlon B. Carter, former leader of the National Rifle Association
 
Sports B6-14
 
Baseball: Mets woo Sutcliffe and Murray B7
Basketball: Cavaliers beat Nets B10
Columns: Lipsyte on tennis and tobacco. B7
Tennis: Graf loses, but Navratilova wins B7
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A30-31
 
Editorials A30
Bush defies Congress.
The majority and the gag rule.
Listen to the silence.
 
Letters A30
 
Anthony Lewis: How freedom died. A31
A. M. Rosenthal: White House rap. A31
David Martin: Croatia's borders -- over the edge. A31
Albert V. Casey: A bigger bucket for bailout fund. A31

GRAPHIC: Photo: A meeting of "the new Russia and the new Germany." A10. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); CUBA (56%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SOMALIA (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%); CUBA (56%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); BOMBINGS (66%); LAWYERS (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



763 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: CREDITORS TO LET SOVIETS POSTPONE PAYING PRINCIPAL

BYLINE: By SERGE SCHMEMANN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Nov. 21

 BODY:
The Soviet Union's major creditors agreed today to allow the fragmented Union to defer repayment of principal for up to a year, thus postponing up to $6 billion in payments and rescuing it from the brink of default.
The Soviet Union amassed a foreign debt estimated at $65 billion to $70 billion, and was facing what one Western official described as "an extremely grave liquidity situation" because of the breakdown of central authority since the Kremlin coup in August and a sharp slowdown in oil and gas exports and economic activity in general. 
 The agreement between representatives of the Group of Seven major industrial democracies and the Soviet side -- eight Soviet republics and the Moscow Government -- tied the deferment to tangible progress on far-ranging economic changes worked out with the International Monetary Fund.
 
Russia Institutes Reforms
 These included several of the intentions already announced by the Russian republic, such as reducing budget deficits, curtailing public spending and monetary growth, and liberalizing prices and exchange rates.
The seven industrial nations -- the United States, Canada, Britain, France, Italy, Germany and Japan -- also gave the Soviet side the opportunity to borrow $1 billion against a gold collateral in what is known as a gold-swap facility. But the proposal reportedly ran into resistance from the republics because of disagreement over the ownership and even the amount of Soviet gold reserves.
Not joining today's agreement were 7 of the 15 republics that were in the Soviet Union before the coup -- the three Baltic states, whose independence has been internationally recognized, and four other republics, including the Ukraine. But Western officials expressed confidence that the holdouts would eventually accept their share of Soviet debt service, saying all had been warned that any republic's refusal to shoulder its share would have serious consequences.
 
Lure of New Credits
 "Certain republics were unable to enter in the memorandum of understanding at this time," said David C. Mulford, Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, who represented the United States. "We indicated to them that if they turned their backs on the existing body of debt, they would face a bleak future with regard to attracting new credits."
Beyond its economic significance, the agreement reflected a recognition among the Western powers that they could no longer deal exclusively with President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and his central Government. The communique issued at the end of the talks referred to the republics, for instance, as "sovereign states," and the treaty dealt with the eight signing republics and the center collectively. Those republics taking part in the agreement are Russia, Moldavia, Byelorussia, Armenia, Turkmenia, Kazakhstan and Kirghizia.
Mr. Mulford insisted that throughout the negotiations the industrial democracies' envoys tried not to inject themselves into the grappling between the republics and the center. "But the problem can't wait for a resolution of the constitutional problem and other arrangements between the republics and the center," he said.
The agreement announced today concluded two long negotiating sessions in which representatives of the Group of Seven sought to convince the newly sovereign republics, most led by governments with little knowledge of international financing but considerable suspicion of anything associated with Moscow, that it was in their best interest to assume the Union's debt. After the first round of meetings last month, all 12 remaining republics initialled a "memorandum of understanding" accepting the princple that all were responsible for their former Union's debt.
But when the second round opened on Monday, several republics, led by the Ukraine, raised new objections over the distribution of the debt burden. Elections for a republic president are scheduled for Dec. 1 in the Ukraine, and with all candidates vying to distance themselves from Moscow, the republic has become all but paralyzed in negotiations with other republics and the Moscow Government.
At the other pole, the representative of the Russian republic, Yegor Gaidar, President Boris N. Yeltsin's top economic adviser, repeatedly declared that Russia accepted the memorandum and its obligations without conditions and was further prepared to assume the entire debt.
 
Exasperation Expressed
 The meetings with the seven wealthy nations were closed, but Western negotiators made no attempt to hide their exasperation with the recalcitrant republics. According to Nezavisimaya Gazeta, a Moscow daily, one of several requests from the Soviet side for more time to consult met with this stern reply from the German delegate: "Another 10 days and the patient will die. You have 24 to 28 hours."
At another point, Nezavisimaya Gazeta reported, Mr. Mulford told the Soviet side: "This is amazing. You're in crisis. If the repayments are missed, you will need 10 years to recover your credit-worthiness. All your programs will be stopped, including food aid."
Mr. Mulford explained subsequently that the law in the United States and some other creditor countries demands that if a debtor defaults on a payment, all other credits are automatically halted. This would block, for instance, the $1.5 billion in food credits announced by President Bush on Wednesday.
In the end, the Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Georgia did not sign. Nezavisimaya Gazeta said the Ukraine did not attend the last session at all.
 
'Jointly and Separately'
 Under the memorandum of understanding, the participating republics and the central Government agreed to assume the Soviet debt "jointly and separately." According to the communique, the Soviet signers further agreed to reach an agreement by the end of November allocating responsibility for repayment and servicing of the Soviet foreign debt and to "mobilize" the foreign exchange needed to pay the debt.
The republics also declared that "as a matter of the highest priority" they would work with the International Monetary Fund "to adopt and implement during the first quarter of 1992 comprehensive and ambitious macro-economic and structural adjustment programs."
Essentially, this required all participating republics to institute quickly the sort of economic program that Mr. Yeltsin announced last weekend, when he pledged to open the door to foreign trade, let the ruble float and enact a variety of other changes.
For their part, the industrial powers agreed to defer payments on medium- and long-term debts contracted before Jan. 1, 1991. Mr. Mulford stressed that the agreement applied only to payments of principal, and not of interest, which would continue being paid.
The deferment would be reviewed after three months to see if the republics were fulfilling their pledges.
 
Called a Unique Approach
 "This is an absolutely unique appraoch, one not tried before," Mr. Mulford said. The Soviet debt, he said, was not that heavy when seen against the potential size of the Soviet economy.
"The problem is liquidity, not solvency," he said. "This is an attempt to give them breathing space. They're current in their payments. The idea is to enable them to maintain payments of interest, so that they could continue to receive credits. If there was no such arrangement, there could be an interruption and cutting of external credit."
The industrial democracies further pledged to seek comparable agreements from other countries to which the Soviets owe money.
If payments of principal are deferred over a year, Mr. Mulford, said the Soviets would be spared about $6 billion dollars in repayments, of which $3.6 billion is due the industrial democracies. The Soviet Union's principal creditor is Germany. The United States is owed about $2.8 billion.
The industrial nations also pledged to maintain short-term credits by their export credit agencies.
 
Trying to Print More Money
 A day earlier, Mr. Gorbachev appealed to the central Parliament for authority to print yet more money to cover his Government's expenses through the winter. His plea would push the central deficit to 205 billion rubles, plus another 100 billion for the republics.
The plea met with resistance from the Russian government, which has assumed the cost of some former central institutions and is trying to close many of the remainder.
According to officials, the idea of a formal budget has been largely abandoned. They said that a budget of 600 billion rubles had been planned for the central Government at the start of the year, but that the disintegration of the Union had stopped most transfer of funds from the republics to the center. Since the August coup, the officials said, and especially since the Russian government began absorbing old federal institutions in November, the central Government has been functioning largely hand-to-mouth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (IMF) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BELARUS (79%); JAPAN (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); GERMANY (72%); FRANCE (57%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); EXTERNAL DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (55%); EXCHANGE RATES (52%); 

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



764 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: 135 Feared Lost As Haitian Boat Sinks Off Cuba

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
As many as 135 Haitian refugees are believed to have drowned off the coast of Cuba on Tuesday night, when their sailboat was wrecked in stormy seas, the Cuban press agency reported today.
It was the first such disaster to be reported since a sudden exodus of Haitians from their island began in late October. 
 The Coast Guard's Miami office said that it could not confirm the report of the shipwreck, off Cape Maisi in Guantanamo Province. But a Coast Guard spokesman said that the seas were running 8 feet high with 20 knot winds on Tuesday night, weather too bad for cutters to continue their normal patrols. Two cutters in the area were riding at anchor. The United States Navy base at Guantanamo was apparently also not aware of the shipwreck.
 
Deteriorating Weather
 The Cuban press agency said that 60 survivors and 16 bodies had been found, and that 119 Haitians were missing and thought to have drowned. The bodies discovered were of two children, two men and 12 women, the Cuban agency said. The report could not be independently confirmed.
With weather conditions still deteriorating today, the Coast Guard said that there had been no reports of Haitian refugee boats intercepted since a small craft with 26 people aboard was encountered Wednesday.
Seas were 10 feet high today, and winds registered 30 knots, the Coast Guard said in Miami, raising fears that many Haitians might have perished unnoticed. Many officials said they believed that only half the Haitians who put to sea -- most of them in boats that are ill equipped, overloaded and not seaworthy -- survive the voyage.
Reports of the shipwreck came as a Bush Administration effort to resume the forced return of refugees to Haiti was blocked today by a Federal judge in Miami, who also ruled that lawyers representing the Haitian exiles will be allowed for the first time to witness interviews that determine whether Haitians now in custody will be admitted to the United States.
In a ruling welcomed by human-rights and refugee organizations as a victory for those challenging immigration procedures in asylum cases, Judge C. Clyde Atkins of the United States District Court for Southern Florida upheld a temporary stay order against the involuntary repatriation that began on Monday.
In two days, 538 Haitians picked up at sea were taken back to the island. On Wednesday night, the Justice Department and the United States Attorney's office in Miami asked for the Nov. 19 stay to be vacated so that repatriations could resume.
A hearing on the class-action suit brought by the Haitian Refugee Center in Miami is scheduled to be heard by Judge Atkins on Nov. 27. On Friday the center, an advocacy organization for Haitian exiles, hopes to send a lawyer to at least one Coast Guard cutter and the Navy base at Guantanamo where refugees are being held.
 
Transfers to Base in Cuba
 The forced repatriation of Haitians on the ground that most are economic and not political refugees has provoked protests from human-rights groups and members of Congress who ask why people were being returned to the jurisdiction of a military Government the United States does not recognize as legitimate and against which economic sanctions have been imposed. The Government now in control in Haiti overthrew the elected Government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on Sept. 30.
More than 1,400 of the Haitians who have been picked up by Coast Guard cutters over the last few weeks are now being transfered to the Navy base at Guantanamo, to make room on the ships for new boat people. About 380 people remain on the cutters.
The State Department said today that 858 of the 1,400 were being put aboard the Navy's amphibious landing ship Tortuga and 572 others would go to the base. On Tuesday, several hundred were moved from Guantanamo to temporary havens in Honduras and Venezuela.
Of the 4,409 Haitians intercepted in the Caribbean by the Coast Guard in 1991, under a 10-year-old treaty with Haiti allowing the forcible return of those who do not qualify for political asylum, 2,845 people in 44 boats have been picked up since Oct. 29.
 
Visit to Haiti
 The State Department has raised the question why many Haitians waited nearly a month after the Sept. 30 coup to leave the island when much of the violence unleashed by the takeover occurred in the first few days of October.
In an interview today, one of the Haitians picked up at sea early this month gave his explanation for the delay.
The refugee, Gaston Jolicoeur, a 35-year-old carpenter, said he was in Cap-Haitien when the coup against President Aristide occurred. Mr. Jolicoeur said he had been living in the Miami area for 13 years and was visiting his family in Haiti, where his passport and other vital documents had been stolen and not yet replaced.
He was picked up off the coast of Florida by the Coast Guard on Nov. 7. Because he could remember his Social Security and alien registration number -- and spoke excellent English -- he was among 53 Haitians brought to Miami on Nov. 18 to lodge formal asylum petitions. He spoke by phone from Miami.
Mr. Jolicoeur said that for the first few days after the coup, people were terrified to leave their homes because "all this killing was going on all over." He said a particularly brutal army corps had been posted in Cap-Haitien and the local troops rotated out.
 
'I've Got to Get Out'
 Many people nevertheless continued to believe that President Aristide would be restored. They remembered that there had been a failed coup before his inauguration in February, and they expected that the country could ride out this crisis, also. But instead, the terror continued.
"When I see all the killing -- a young woman dead, young kids getting shot, young woman, young kids gettin killed, dogs eating people -- I said, hey, I got no choice," Mr. Jolicoeur said. "I've got to get out."
Lacking money, it took him more than a week -- it was then nearly mid-October -- to find someone with a boat who was willing to take him on for no fee as an English speaker who could deal with the Coast Guard. His group of 52 refugees finally set sail on Oct. 30. Four days later, they beached on a small island to ask for food and water from local people. Two days later they headed toward Miami, and were picked up on the way.
For four more days, they cruised the Caribbean on a Coast Guard cutter, picking up other refugees, who he said got sick from sleeping on the decks in the rain every night. They were given two meals a day of rice and beans. Then they were put ashore at Guantanamo, and life improved dramatically, with hot showers, sheets and pillows, three meals a day and medical care.
After interviews at Guantanamo, he was flown to Miami on Nov. 18.
"When I'm thinking of those people in Guantanamo, I'm wondering what's going to happen to them," he said. "It really bothers me. It bothers me a lot."

GRAPHIC: Map of Caribbean Sea highlighting Haiti and showing location of Cape Maisi, Cuba (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COAST GUARD (USCG) US COAST GUARD (91%); US COAST GUARD (91%); US NAVY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST GUARD (USCG) US COAST GUARD (91%); US COAST GUARD (91%); US NAVY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI; CUBA HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); CUBA (95%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; BOAT PEOPLE; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY ARMED FORCES (90%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); WEATHER (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); NAVIES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); LAWYERS (68%); JUDGES (68%); WITNESSES (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



765 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: France to Pursue Libyan Link to '89 Bombing

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM

DATELINE: PARIS, Nov. 21

 BODY:
President Francois Mitterrand hardened his tone toward Libya today by pledging to pursue charges that Libyan Government agents planted a bomb on a French airliner that exploded in midair in September 1989, killing 171 people.
"I personally feel strongly that the murders of our compatriots and of other nationals should not go unpunished," Mr. Mitterrand said at a news conference. 
 His comments followed the arrival here a few days ago of Khadaf al-Dam, the reputed head of Libyan intelligence services. Mr. Dam has been trying to persuade French officials of Libya's innocence in the bombing.
There were also reports from Tunis that Libya was trying to rally support in the Arab world by calling for an Arab League meeting to discuss American and British threats of punitive action against Libya over its alleged complicity in the bombing a Pan Am airliner over Scotland in 1988, in which 270 died. Formal indictments against two Libyan Government employees were issued in Britain and the United States last week.
A ranking Arab diplomat here said that there was "little enthusiasm" among Arabs to publicly support Libya's denials of involvement in the two bombings, but that virtually all Arab countries were "adamantly opposed" to any concerted military action against Libya.
The diplomat added, however, that the Arabs would not strongly oppose any other actions.
"If the United States, France and Britain go for economic sanctions, there will not be much that the Arab League could or would do," said the diplomat, who asked for anonymity.
Mr. Mitterrand's assertion that he will push the judicial inquiry "as far as the French judicial system demands"increases the possibility that the European Community will impose broader sanctions against Libya.
France imports little Libyan oil, and Britain is self-sufficient in energy, but according to Ira B. Joseph of Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, four other Community members -- Italy, Greece, Germany and Spain -- together consume about one-half of Libya's oil exports. Oil accounts for about 90 percent of the country's exports. The United States already boycotts Libyan oil.
Mr. Mitterrand did not specify what actions France would take against Libya if it failed to deliver four Libyan officials, including a brother-in-law of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, to the French authorities. Arrest warrants for the four were issued on Oct. 30 in Paris in connection with the 1989 bombing, in which a DC-10 of the French airline U.T.A. exploded over Niger.
The increasingly stern attitude taken by France toward Libya contrasts sharply with the mood of optimism and friendliness that this country tried to foster in the European Community only a few weeks ago, when it advocated the lifting of sanctions that have been in place against Libya.
Three days before the indictments were handed down in Paris, Foreign Minister Roland Dumas said in Algiers that it was time "to turn the page" with Libya and lift economic sanctions imposed by Europe in 1986 for Libya's reported support of terrorism.
Like the United States and Britain, France did not repeat earlier assertions implicating Syria and Iran in the two airplane bombings.
Arab diplomats here say that the three nations appear to have singled out Libya for blame as it is largely isolated in the Arab world today and has been a vociferous critic of the Middle East peace conference that convened last month in Madrid.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Libya Rejects Extradition
 LONDON, (Reuters) -- Libya's Foreign Minister told the British Broadcasting Corporation today that he had rejected a request by Britain to hand over the two men charged with murder and conspiracy in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Scotland.
 In an interview with BBC World Service radio's Arabic service, the official, Ibrahim Mohamed Bashari, repeated denials that Libya was in any way involved with the December 1988 bombing over the town of Lockerbie.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (69%); 

COUNTRY: LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SCOTLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); NIGER (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (55%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

COMPANY: ARAB LEAGUE ; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (69%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ARAB LEAGUE ; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); LEAGUE OF ARAB STATES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;FRANCE; UNITED STATES; NIGER; LIBYA ; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (99%); FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); SCOTLAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); NIGER (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GREECE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SPAIN (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (55%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; TERRORISM ; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) BOMBINGS (91%); AIRLINES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BOYCOTTS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); TERRORISM (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (62%); MURDER (58%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS (PRES); DAM, KHADAF AL- FRANCOIS MAURICE MARIE MITTERRAND (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



766 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

TOUGH TIMES FOR GOVERNORS
Angry about tax increases imposed in troubled economic times, residents of New Jersey and Connecticut are taking out their discontents on their Governors, giving them generally dismal approval ratings in a New York Times/WCBS-TV News poll. While only a quarter of those polled in the two states said they approved of their Governor's performance, New York's Governor, Mario M. Cuomo, received somewhat stronger support, with a 37 percent approval rating. Page A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
STREETS OFFICIAL IS REASSIGNED
New York City's assistant commissioner for street reconstruction has been moved to another job amid revelations that the city may lose tens of millions of dollars in Federal highway funds because city contractors used watered-down concrete and violated safety rules on three major street repair projects. Page A1.
 
DISSENSION IN THE COMMUTER RANKS
In subway stations and at bus stops around the city, the proposed 25-cent fare increase is cause for indignation. Many straphangers and bus riders say that their wallets have already been pinched enough by the recession and that the Transit Authority should not ask them to solve its financial problems. Page B3.
 
S.I. STUDENT SHOOTS 3, KILLING ONE
Pelted by bottles, a high school student retaliated by opening fire on three other students, the police said. One is dead. Page B3.
 
A NEW LIBRARY FOR THE LIBRARY
In an unusual financing arrangement, the New York Public Library has assembled more than $70 million to buy part of the old B. Altman department store on Fifth Avenue to create a new science, industry and business library. Page B2.
City Council offers its own budget plan. Page B3.
Police to tighten standards for misdemeanor tickets. Page B3.
 
REGION
 
PROGRESS OR NO PROGRESS?
While Governor Cuomo and legislative leaders spoke publicly about making significant progress in their negotiations over a multiyear financial plan, their aides painted a picture of confusion and inertia in closed-door budget talks. Page B5.
 
DESEGREGATION CASE: IN WHOSE COURT?
State lawyers state argued that a lawsuit attacking the de facto segregation that divides Hartford from its suburbs raises questions of social policy far too sweeping and complex for a single judge to decide. The case, they said, should first go to the State Supreme Court. Page B5.
 
RETURNING TO 'REPUBLICAN ROOTS'
Connecticut's top Republican legislators, who have spent the year leading a coalition of moderates and conservatives against a tax on wages, said they were returning to their "Republican roots." They presented a plan to replace the three-month-old income tax, with $300 million in spending cuts as its centerpiece. Page B5.
 
PROPERTY TAX RISE VETOED IN SUFFOLK
The Suffolk County Executive vetoed a $51 million property tax increase adopted by the Republican-controlled County Legislature and proposed an alternative plan that he said would avoid a tax increase. Page B5.
Our Towns B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); COUNTIES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (75%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LITIGATION (73%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (73%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%); SHOOTINGS (71%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (71%); LIBRARIES (70%); CITIES (70%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (66%); CONSERVATISM (65%); MISDEMEANORS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (54%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



767 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Affirmative Action Plans Are Now Part of the Normal Corporate Way of Life

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
When the Bush Administration seemed ready to attack programs that give preferences to minority and female job seekers, it was tampering with a bipartisan concept that has become as familiar to American businesses as tally sheets and bottom lines.
Affirmative action plans that are either mandated by Federal law or sanctioned by Supreme Court rulings are so pervasive in the American workplace that a Reagan Administration attempt in 1985 to curtail them was opposed by corporate lobbyists as well as civil rights groups. 
 "Affirmative action programs are so much a part of the way industry operates today that to try to de-establish them would create enormous difficulties," said Alfred W. Blumrosen, a professor at Rutgers University Law School who was an official in the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
 
New Possibilities Open
 Since a company's jettisoning of an affirmative action program could be cited in a court case as evidence of its intent to discriminate, Mr. Blumrosen said, the civil rights bill signed today by President Bush could make companies less willing to get rid of their affirmative action programs even if they wanted to. The new law allows people to collect up to $300,000 in punitive damages if they prove they were intentionally denied a job or promotion on the basis of their race or sex. It is the first time that people would be allowed to collect punitive damages for sex discrimination.
A draft of a directive President Bush was expected to issue at the signing of the new bill gave rise to reports that he would order all Federal agencies to phase out the use of racial preferences and quotas in hiring to underscore his opposition to such measures. But the White House quickly assured civil rights leaders who had been invited to the signing ceremony that the affirmative action regulations would not be wiped out.
Race-based programs stem from 1965, when President Lyndon B. Johnson signed an executive order that required Government contractors to act aggressively, or undertake "affirmative action," to increase the number of blacks on their staffs.
Four years later, after hearings conducted by the Department of Labor uncovered widespread discrimination in the construction industry, the Nixon Administration developed the concept of using "goals and timetables" to measure the progress of construction companies with Federal contracts in increasing the number of blacks on their payrolls.
 
95,000 Companies Covered
 A year later President Nixon extended the use of goals and timetables to all Federal contractors and four years later declared that such affirmative action programs should also cover women.
Today, the program requires any Federal contractor with 50 or more employees or a Federal contract worth more than $50,000 to adopt an affirmative action plan. Labor Department officials say more than 95,000 companies employing 27 million workers and having contracts worth a total of $184 billion are covered by the Federal program.
Under the program companies would strive to make their work force match percentages of qualified minority members and women in the local labor pool.
In addition to Federal contractors, universities, hospitals, day-care centers or other businesses that receive Federal grants may be required to have such hiring and promotion programs.
 
Guidelines Are Explicit
 Several Supreme Court decisions, as well as guidelines issued in 1979 by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, spell out how companies that do not receive Federal financing can voluntarily set up their own affirmative action programs.
The guidelines state that companies should determine if their employment practices have resulted in the exclusion of women or members of minorities. If so, any plan to rectify the situation must be considered reasonable and must include goals and timetables to measure the company's progress.
"The guidelines point out a legitimate way of doing affirmative action," Mr. Blumrosen said. "They also immunize the businesses against financial liability."
While private industry has adapted to the world of affirmative action, it is public employment that has seen the greatest use of the practice, even though there is no policy that requires Federal agencies to have any hiring programs that give preferences to minority members or women. According to figures from the Office of Personnel Management, minorities made up 27.5 percent of the Federal workforce as of Sept. 30, 1990, as against 21.8 percent of the civilian workforce.
 
Major Effort in Public Sector
 "The public sector is the place where there have been the most efforts made in terms of affirmative action," said David Bositis, a senior research associate at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research organization specializing in issues involving blacks. Some researchers theorize that the use of affirmative action, especially in the public sector, is one of the prime reasons for the expansion of the black middle class in the past 20 years.
But if affirmative action has been widely accepted by industry, it remains a tantalizing target for some politicians. Republican candidates as disparate as Gov. Pete Wilson of California, Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and State Representative David Duke of Louisiana have used their opposition to "quotas" as a way to garner votes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (56%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1991; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; HIRING AND PROMOTION; PUBLIC OPINION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WOMEN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (96%); EMPLOYMENT (93%); CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); LITIGATION (76%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (72%); DAMAGES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; REAGAN, RONALD WILSON GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



768 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Cheney, in Korea, Orders Halt to U.S. Pullout

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Responding to new estimates that North Korea will be able to produce weapons-grade plutonium within a year, Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney ordered a halt to long-planned American troop reductions in South Korea today "until the dangers and uncertainties of the North Korean nuclear program have been thoroughly addressed."
Mr. Cheney's announcement, the most concrete move yet to step up pressure on the Government of President Kim Il Sung, came at the end of two days of meetings here in which American and South Korean officials outlined initiatives to force the North to abandon its nuclear ambitions. 
 Among them are the proposed sale to Seoul of several batteries of Patriot missiles and an unusual show of force -- including F-117 Stealth fighters, AWACS early warning aircraft and a variety of anti-missile systems -- as part of a major military exercise here early next year.
At the same time, according to another senior official traveling with Mr. Cheney, the Bush Administration is actively considering a plan to allow international inspectors into American military bases here next year to verify that all nuclear weapons have been removed from South Korea. The United States has never before allowed such an inspection, the official said.
But he said "it would be silly to allow our usual rules to give the North an excuse" to further forestall international inspection of its own bases. North Korea has said in the past that it will never allow nuclear inspectors into the country while American nuclear missiles were deployed in the South and -- in a condition added a few weeks ago -- while Washington keeps South Korea within its nuclear umbrella.
Although Mr. Cheney's action was hardly expected to prompt Pyongyang to abandon its nuclear project, the Americans wanted to send a strong signal that their presence on the Korean Peninsula would not diminish as long as there is a nuclear threat from the north.
Although the United States has never acknowledged storing nuclear weapons in South Korea, it is widely known that it has kept more than 150 at an American air base here. All those weapons are now being withdrawn, American and South Korean officials say, including those not covered by President Bush's decision in September to remove American ship-based and ground-based tactical nuclear weapons. Officials say an agreement has also been reached with South Korea to remove air-launched weapons as well.
The practical effect of the moves will be minimal, however, because North Korea would still be in easy reach of American nuclear submarines.
United States officials told the South Koreans during the talks here that they were willing to sell them Patriot missile systems, but that they would not permanently base an American-owned Patriot battery staffed by Americans here.
The Koreans said it might be a few years before they could buy their own system and train troops to operate it, the American officials said.
Mr. Cheney and military officials took pains today to say that for the time being, they are considering only diplomatic and economic actions to force Mr. Kim's Government to comply with the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which Pyongyang signed in 1985. But they also said that by halting the military reduction here and mounting a much larger military exercise than usual, they wanted to send a clear signal to Mr. Kim.
"If they missed Desert Storm," a high-level American military official said today, "this is a chance to catch a re-run."
Taken together, the series of moves appear to reflect a growing fear in the Administration, based more on new analysis than any surprising new evidence, that North Korea may be far closer to developing a crude nuclear weapon than first believed.
"We are convinced that North Korea is developing the capability to build a nuclear weapon," Mr. Cheney said at a news conference today with his South Korean counterpart, Lee Jong Koo. Until today, the reduction of American forces in South Korea was scheduled to take place in several stages.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (88%); MILITARY BASES (88%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; CHENEY, DICK (SEC) DICK CHENEY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



769 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1866 words

HEADLINE: Scrapping 'Us Versus Them,' Industry Is Giving Workers a Say and a Stake

BYLINE: By PETER T. KILBORN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CANTON, Ohio

 BODY:
In times like these, the typical American company cuts costs by laying people off. It's a quick if brutal way to face a weak economy.
But at Republic Engineered Steels Inc., one of a handful of companies in the nation owned solely by the people who work there, the workers and managers have avoided mass layoffs by collaborating to cut other costs. 
 Without the savings, about 625 workers of the company's 3,980 hourly workers could have been laid off. With the savings, just 105 were.
At the root of the collaboration at Republic is something that labor experts call "empowerment," or giving workers a real place in management. For the past two years, Republic's workers and managers have owned the company outright. Workers, through their union, have as many seats on the board as management. On the shop floor, workers and supervisors sit on production management committees that look for ways to improve quality and cut costs.
Ownership is not essential to giving workers a voice in the operations of their companies. Indeed, many companies, often emulating Japanese techniques, have devised methods in recent years under which workers and managers collaborate to improve performance. But when workers have both a say and a stake in a company, they have an extra incentive to succeed.
The Bush Administration seems to support these arrangements. In September, the Labor Department cited Republic with three more conventionally owned companies, the International Business Machines Corporation, the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and Pepsico, for an award for "designing and managing innovative programs to improve the skills of American workers."
 
Heresy at Many Companies
 Still, Republic's form of collaboration is heresy in much of American industry. Unions and management normally see themselves as adversaries, and most are comfortable with that relationship. Unions keep losing ground, to the point where they now represent about one in eight private industry workers. Rather than contemplating ways to get along with management, most unions have been urging Congress to strengthen their powers to strike and recruit.
Companies generally welcome the unions' decline, and some egg it on by permanently replacing striking workers with nonunion workers -- blunting the utility of a strike and, therefore, of union membership.
But a small minority of companies, of which Republic is among the biggest, see the old us-versus-them relationships as too costly for both sides. Proponents of empowerment argue that both sides must bury the hatchet to survive the competition with foreign industries, many of which adopted empowerment systems years ago.
The current economic downturn has hit the steel industry hard, as orders from big customers like the General Motors Corporation plunged along with steel prices. Since October 1990, 18,000 steel jobs have been lost. Republic lost $31 million from June 1990 through June of this year on sales of $807 million. It has had to delay the start of a $400 million to $500 million modernization plan.
Republic's managers initially reacted to the tough times much like the rest of the industry, secretly considering a plan last summer to lay off 500 workers. And like the unions elsewhere, Republic's union predictably screamed.
But not so predictably, management relented, and Republic's president and chief executive, Russell W. Maier, even apologized. And since July, the two sides have redoubled their efforts to cut costs in more humane ways, achieving $25 million in annual savings through measures like curbing water consumption and recycling scrap.
 
Need for Union's Discipline
 The son of a local barber, Mr. Maier has been with the mill here since 1960, through its transitions from two prior owners. He says he first fought the notion of employee ownership. But now, he says that with the steel industry floundering he needs the union's workplace discipline and organization. To make it work, he said, "you've got to build one ingredient without which you fail." That, he said, is "trust."
C. William Lynn, president of Local 1200 of the United Steelworkers of America, the son and grandson of steelworkers and once a union firebrand, strikes the same chords. In a recent monthly newsletter to union members, he said, "We must build mutual trust between one another so we can all focus on long-range job security."
It was the cost-cutting process that most impressed the Labor Department. Employees are constantly being urged to submit savings proposals, in writing. And with jobs on the line, about 1,000 proposals had been submitted since July. Rather than let them die in a suggestion box, the company gives each proposal a file number, assigns it to a supervisor and requires a response within a week.
Typical was a suggestion in September from Gene Roman, a melter. He wrote that he had a "better way to schedule heats on No. 7 pouring platform." He suggested meeting with two supervisors, Tony Gianini and Bob Lerch, to discuss the proposal. Mr. Gianini wrote back on the form: "If schedule permits, pull Gene off for a day to work with Lerch. Then have Lerch work with Roman. Then work on scheduling."
Two supervisors, Don King and Ray Florey, and two hourly workers, Tony Milini and Moe Adams, proposed a water conservation project at the main plant, in Canton. The savings ranged from little things, like replacing two drinking fountains with coolers, to big things, like recycling rinsing water. Consumption has plunged from more than nine million gallons a month last year to less than two million, resulting in a savings of close to $50,000 a year.
"They pass these sheets around looking for ideas," said Mr. Milini, 39, a 17-year veteran of the Canton plant and an author of the water conservation proposal. "Before, they didn't want to know what I might tell them, so I wouldn't tell them. It makes you care about the product. You actually got a hand in it."
 
What's Different at Republic
 Often through devices known as employee stock ownership plans, millions of workers have acquired stock in the companies that employ them, and in some cases, a majority of the stock. But few have any more say in management than the typical small stockholder. At Republic, by contrast, the employees have both stock and a major role in running the company.
"If the market is going to drag the workers through the mud," said Joseph R. Blasi, a management professor at Rutgers University, "at least they have some influence at the board level over how it is managed."
At Republic four union members sit on the board, the same number that represents management. Five independent directors, selected by the two sides, tip the balance if management and labor divide along their usual lines. At various levels of the company, down to the shop floor, workers and managers meet weekly on company time to talk about ways of making steel better and any other subjects on both sides' minds.
These relationships arose from the two sides' decision to rescue the company two years ago. At that time, most of the company's nearly 4,000 hourly employees and 1,000 managers joined in buying the LTV Corporation's steel bar-making division, the nation's biggest producer of the steel used in making the mechanical guts of automobiles, aircraft and appliances. In a continuing struggle with bankruptcy that began five years ago, LTV decided to sell the division, and the employees feared that the most likely buyers would then sell it for scrap.
To buy the company, managers put up $4,000 each. The workers each put up $4,000, too. They set up a trust to hold the stock and parcel out new shares, the number based on employees' pay. The employees' contributions paid for 10 percent of the company, and the company borrowed $260 million to pay for the rest.
Because Republic is losing money and paying off the enormous debt, no one is collecting dividends. Someday, if the company thrives, it could sell some stock to the public, and the workers could reap big capital gains when they sold their shares. For now, they can only sell their stock back to the company, since it is not publicly traded, and only when they retire. Currently, a retiring owner would get a few hundred dollars more than he paid.
 
More Agreeable Tone
 Many workers speak of a distinctly more agreeable tone at the company. Mike Viront, a 38-year-old crane operator, and Mark Hendrickson, a 36-year-old strand caster, were having their pulses taken and cholesterol counted at a Republic health fair behind the Canton plant, the biggest of eight the company owns in six states.
"With foremen," Mr. Hendrickson said, "I can talk freely now. Before I was afraid it might come back on you."
Mr. Viront said: "They're in it just the same that we are. We're more together.
Speaking of the company's president, Mr. Hendrickson said, "Russ Maier, he comes into the melt plant and talks to us one-on-one."
Mr. Viront said: "Guy from LTV would come in here in a helicopter. He'd land out front and have security all around him. They acted like we were going to assassinate the guy."
The new tone at the company also influences how complaints are handled. Jim Bonsky, 36, a union grievance committeeman and a gauger-inspector at the Canton plant, said, "I got a call at 3 in the morning. The crew of 15 people in the blooming mill were being forced to work overtime" because ingots had arrived in the mill for rolling just as the shift was ending. Management backed down, he said, but it was likely to make such demands again.
So at a plantwide meeting, the union and management appointed a team of workers and foremen, relieved them of their jobs for a week and told them to find out why the ingots were coming in late. The team then wrote scheduling guidelines to assure prompter delivery. "I give management credit," Mr. Bonsky said, "because in the past they would never have sat down to discuss this with us."
Some workers are not yet persuaded that much has changed. They have seen no return on their investment, and some foremen are still hostile, they say. "Conflict still exists," said Ernest Romy, 55, a crane operator. "They're still the boss. You're still the employee." Vince Sama, 56, a heat treater, said: "It's the same old thing. It's us versus them generally. Workers don't believe they actually bought it."
Some foremen are a significant problem, Mr. Maier acknowledged. "You change that by changing the job, the system they work in, and then you have to educate them," he said.
He said it would be five to seven years before the change in the culture became rooted enough to hold on the way the old culture has. Part of the reason, he said, is that workers and management were comfortable with the old divisions.
"We developed a finely tuned system of adversarial relationships," he said.
Mr. Bonsky said, "I liked the old days better when I could go nose-to-nose and not have to worry about it."
Now he does have to worry, for both his job and his investment. "Both sides have a responsibility to make it work," he said, "because we both have a vested interest in the company."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I give management credit," said Jim Bonsky, left, a union grievance committeeman at Republic Engineered Steels in Canton, Ohio, "because in the past they would never have sat down to discuss this with us." Mr. Bonsky spoke with Russell W. Maier, chief executive, outside the plant.; "They pass these sheets around looking for ideas," said Tony Milini, a 17-year veteran at the Canton plant. "Before, they didn't want to know what I might tell them, so I wouldn't tell them. It makes you care about the product. You actually got a hand in it." He moved steel out of the rollers in front of a heat treatment device. (Photographs by Roger Mastroianni for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (66%); IBM (NYSE) (66%); IBM (LSE) (66%); T (NYSE) (55%); PEP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (91%); SIC3325 STEEL FOUNDRIES, NEC (91%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (92%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (56%); AURORA, OH, USA (56%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLIC ENGINEERED STEELS INC (91%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (66%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); AT&T INC (55%); PEPSICO INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); OHIO, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (56%); AURORA, OH, USA (56%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); STRIKES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: KILBORN, PETER T

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



770 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Roundup;
Lawmakers Pare Their 'Must Do' List

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Congress made some progress on two major pieces of legislation today as both chambers passed measures to finance the depleted bank insurance fund and lawmakers agreed on a House-Senate conference committee to handle the much-debated crime bill. 
 The House also set the stage for passing its last major domestic spending bill. But both chambers waited to see how legislation dealing with the savings and loan bailout and with transportation programs would fare before committing themselves on when they would recess and whether they would have to return in December.
 
Deadlock on Crime Bill Ends
A three-week deadlock was broken when Senate leaders today finally agreed to appoint eight members to the House-Senate conference committee that will attempt to iron out differences between the two versions of the crime bill. Senator George Mitchell, the majority leader, said the agreement was "better late than never," but he pointedly reminded members that the committee's ratio of five Democrats to three Republicans was the same the Democratic leadership proposed more than three weeks ago, when the Republicans had contended the ratio was unfair.
One crucial bit of arm-twisting that preceded the agreement was applied by President Bush in a White House meeting with Senator Steve Symms, Republican of Idaho. Mr. Symms had been refusing to consent to a conference because of his opposition to gun control elements in the bill. A Symms aide quoted the Senator as saying "The President asked me to give him a chance to get a good crime bill." He was said to have added, "Who am I to deny the President his chance?"
Though House Speaker Thomas S. Foley and Democratic Senators expressed optimism about the prospects of reaching agreement on the crime bill before the recess, senior aides said it would be extremely difficult for conferees to work out a number of differences, particularly on habeas corpus and the exclusionary rule.
The Democratic aides conceded that the Republicans would be able to block inclusion of a provision, passed by the Senate but soundly defeated by the House, that would ban the sale and manufacture of nine types of assault rifles.
Republicans hope to keep the Senate version of habeas corpus reform, which sets a six-month deadline on a single petition of habeas corpus. It would also allow a Federal judge to dismiss a habeas corpus appeal if he rules that the defendant received an adequate hearing at the state level. The House approved a far narrower reform.
On the exclusionary rule, the House version would expand the legal use of evidence seized by police without a warrant far more than the Senate was willing to do.
 
Deposit Insurance Legislation
On another crucial issue, the House and Senate today passed legislation to shore up the depleted deposit insurance fund, amid fears that Congressional inaction might cause heavy runs on banks.
But important differences separate the two banking measures and lawmakers predicted that ironing them out would be an arduous task.
The House bill was approved 344 to 84, without any of the Bush Administration proposals that would have rolled back limits on the ability of industrial firms to own banks and the banking industry's ability to enter the securities and insurance industries.
In contrast, the Senate measure, adopted in a voice vote with fewer than 12 senators on the floor, included part of the White House proposal, with provisions to allow banks greater flexibility in opening branches across state lines. The Senate measure would also tighten restrictions on the entry of banks into the insurance business.
 
Aid to the Soviet Union
The idea of taking money from the Pentagon budget and using it to aid the Soviet Union, a plan considered dead ten days ago, resurfaced in both the Senate and the House today. Senators Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who heads the Armed Services Committee and Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, a senior Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, and 14 other senators proposed taking about $500 million from the Department of Defense to help the Soviet Union destroy chemical and nuclear weapons.
In the House, three senior Democarts proposed legislation to spend $1 bilion on dismantling nuclear wepaons and on food aid. They were Representatives Les Aspin of Wisconsin, chairman of the Armed Services Committee; Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the majority leader, and Lee H. Hamilton of Indiana, chairman of the Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Europe and the Middle East.
The House also settled the issue of how it would proceed on the $205 billion spending bill for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. President Bush vetoed it because it would have overturned his Administration's ban on abortion counseling in federally financed family- planning clinics, and the veto was sustained in the House on Tuesday.

Delay on Payments to Jobless
Foreign policy provided the latest issue to delay final action on the unemployment compensation benefits bill.
With Administration backing, House Republicans won a battle to include duty-free import provisions for Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru in the $5.5 billion measure to provide either 13 or 20 weeks of extended benefits for people out of work for at least half a year.
The House had included that provision when it amended a Senate version of the bill Wednesday, along with favored trading status for Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia and Lithuania. But Representative Dan Rostenkowski, the Illinois Democrat who heads the House Ways and Means Committee, and Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who heads the Senate Finance committee, had privately agreed to scrap the benefits for the South American nations.
But then the House voted 416 to 0 to tell its conferees to insist on benefits for the four countries, delaying the conference.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senators Sam Nunn, left, head of the Armed Services Committee and Richard G. Lugar of the Foreign Relations Committee proposed taking about $500 million from the Department of Defense to help the Soviet Union destroy chemical and nuclear weapons. (The New York Times; Paul Conklin)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATION (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); HABEAS CORPUS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (85%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (79%); GUN CONTROL (78%); INSURANCE LAW (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); BAILOUTS (71%); FIREARMS (65%); PETITIONS (65%); JUDGES (60%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM GEORGE W BUSH (67%); DICK LUGAR (59%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



771 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Governors Agree on How to Pay for Medicaid

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
After making major concessions to avoid political embarrassment, the White House and the nation's governors reached a tentative agreement today on how to pay for health care for poor people under Medicaid.
But the compromise faces stiff opposition from state legislators and from hospitals, which are concerned about losing Medicaid revenue, and it is not clear that Congress will approve the agreement. Indeed, Congress appears likely to defer action until early next year, permitting states to continue using fund-raising devices that President Bush wants to restrict. 
 Medicaid finances health care for 27 million low-income people. It is financed jointly by the Federal Government and the states.
 
Special Tax on Hospitals
 The agreement, disclosed today by the White House, permits states to continue using special taxes on hospitals to pay the state share of Medicaid, subject to certain limits. In general, states could not use such taxes to pay more than 25 percent of the state share of Medicaid. Raymond C. Scheppach, executive director of the National Governors Association, confirmed that the governors had negotiated a compromise with the Bush Administration.
Federal officials have denounced such taxes as a scam because hospitals typically get back much more than they pay in, and Washington ends up paying the bill.
Historically, the Federal Government and the states have shared the cost of Medicaid. The state share rises with a state's per capita income. Affluent states like New York and California pay half of program costs for their residents.
The original restrictions on state fund-raising techniques were devised by Richard G. Darman, the White House budget director, and Gail R. Wilensky, the head of the Federal Health Care Financing Administration, who supervises Medicaid. The restrictions, which are to take effect Jan. 1, provoked a storm of criticism from Republicans and Democrats who said they would devastate Medicaid in many states.
 
Withdrawal of Rules Urged
 Among those who urged President Bush to withdraw the rules were Representatives Newt Gingrich of Georgia, the Republican whip, and Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, as well as Senator George J. Mitchell of Maine, the Senate Democratic leader. Mr. Gephardt said the rules would jeopardize health care for thousands of children and pregnant women, as well as for workers who turned to Medicaid after losing jobs in the current recession.
But Federal officials said the restrictions were needed to curtail state fund-raising schemes. Under these schemes, like one exposed in Massachusetts last summer, states pay their share of Medicaid by collecting voluntary hospital donations or by imposing special taxes on hospitals, which then get back more than they paid in.
By a lopsided vote of 348 to 71, the House of Representatives voted on Tuesday to block the Administration's effort to crack down on these fund-raising schemes before Sept. 30, 1992. The Senate Finance Committee, which will meet on Friday, is expected to approve a similar freeze through March 31, 1992. Under the Senate bill, all state fund-raising techniques now in use could continue, but no new ones could be adopted.
Dr. Wilensky said that 38 states were now using such schemes and that 6 other states were planning to adopt them to help cover the exploding costs of Medicaid.
Under the compromise reached today, states could continue using such fund-raising arrangements for another year, at a cost to the Federal Government of $5.5 billion. Starting late next year, most donations would be forbidden; in other words, states would not receive Federal matching money for revenue obtained from donations by hospitals or nursing homes.
But states could impose taxes on hospitals and could use such revenue for up to 25 percent of the state share of Medicaid. States already above the 25 percent level could continue using taxes to cover whatever proportion of the state share is already financed through such taxes.
The White House abandoned its effort to limit the number of hospitals that receive extra Medicaid money because they serve "a disproportionate number of low-income patients." But the agreement says that such extra payments must not exceed 12 percent of all Medicaid spending after Oct. 1, 1992.
Brad C. Johnson, director of the New York State office in Washington, said he supported the agreement negotiated by the Bush Administration and the governors. He said it would permit New York to continue taxing hospitals and other providers of health care.
 
Protecting New Jersey Tax
 Brenda J. Bacon, the health policy coordinator for Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey, said the compromise was "certainly preferable" to Mr. Darman's original plan, but should be amended to make sure that New Jersey's tax on payers of hospital bills was protected.
R. Michael Bird, legislative counsel at the National Conference of State Legislatures, said the proposed settlement was unacceptable. "The agreement represents a major intrusion by the Federal Government into the taxing authority of the states," Mr. Bird said.
Larry S. Gage, president of the National Association of Public Hospitals; Peters D. Willson, vice president of the National Association of Children's Hospitals, and Molly Collins, a lobbyist at the American Hospital Association, all objected to the agreement. They said that poor people could be harmed by the proposed limits on payments to hospitals serving large numbers of low-income patients.
Mr. Gage, Mr. Willson and Ms. Collins said that Congress should defer action until next year so lawmakers could study the issue further. In each of the last three years, Congress has passed laws explicitly permitting the use of voluntary hospital contributions to pay the state share of Medicaid, and last year Congress also gave permission for the use of taxes levied on hospitals. The Federal laws all expire in January 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID GOVERNORS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); APPROVALS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (60%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) GEORGE W BUSH (89%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



772 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Plans Inquiry On Quayle Council's Staff

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Democrats stepped up their attacks today on Vice President Dan Quayle's Council on Competitiveness, as Representative John Conyers Jr. announced that the House Government Operations Committee would begin an investigation of the council's staff.
Senator Al Gore, Democrat of Tennessee, also attacked the council on the floor of the Senate, demanding the resignation of Allan B. Hubbard, the panel's executive director, who is also a member of Mr. Quayle's personal staff. 
 Senator Gore accused Mr. Hubbard of a conflict of interest. Mr. Hubbard, the Senator said, has "more than $1 million in a company that is polluting the environment, but he is in charge of the regulations governing the pollution."
Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat who is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and the Environment, announced on Wednesday that he would investigate potential conflicts of interest involving the council.
 
'Political Attacks' Seen
 Aides to Mr. Quayle called the actions "political attacks" by Democrats who are beginning to fear Mr. Quayle's effectiveness. They also said they expected more such criticism as the Presidential campaign heats up.
"The criticism has been mounting lately," David Beckwith, a spokesman for Mr. Quayle, said today. "The attacks are testimony to the council's effectiveness."
The council has come under criticism for stepping in to revise or overrule regulations after all parties to the process have had their say, and doing so out of public view. Members of the Vice President's personal staff works on the council and thus comes under the scrutiny of the House Government Operations Committee. Mr. Conyers, a Michigan Democrat, is chairman of the committee.
The White House maintains that the council is an arm of the President's executive office and as such has all the power to review and suggest regulations that the President gives it. The council has claimed executive privilege to fend off requests for information on its deliberations.
 
Letter to Bush Cited
 Mr. Quayle made public a letter sent to President Bush from the Senate's Republican leadership and about two dozen other Senators in support of Mr. Quayle and the council, which they said "provides an appropriate and much needed balance in the regulatory rule-making process."
The Senators said they would "resist partisan efforts to destroy the council's role as your overseer of regulatory processes."
Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, said today, "The council is under attack by Democrats for putting some common sense into regulations such as the wetlands rules and tort reform."
He criticized requests by Democrats who asked that the council keep logs of who influences their decisions. "They wouldn't want us to apply that to Congress, get us to make lists of all the people Congressional staff meet with," Senator Nickles said. "The council shouldn't have a litany of people looking over their shoulder every time they open their mouth."
 
Conflict-of-Interest Question
 The hottest issue between the Democrats and the Vice President is the assertion that Mr. Hubbard, the council director, may have a conflict of interest in reviewing some regulations.
In a letter to Mr. Hubbard, Mr. Conyers sought answers to questions about his involvement in regulations at the same time he was making money from companies that might be affected by the regulations. The letter noted that it is a felony to become involved "personally and substantially, through decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, the rendering of advice, investigation or otherwise" in any matter in which Mr. Hubbard had a finacial interest.
Mr. letter continued: "The finanical statement you filed on Aug. 1, 1990, indicates that you received dividend income from 12 corporations and one limited partnership. You also reported receiving interest income from the bonds of 16 corporations and from the commercial paper of two corporations."
 
A Waiver From Quayle
 Last May, in an effort to avoid conflicts between his business interests and the regulations he has reviewed, Mr. Hubbard signed a recusal saying he would not deal with any matters directly affecting the "automotive appearance" industry. He is an owner of World Wide Chemicals Inc. of Indianapolis, which makes auto wax and other products. The company also is a source of air pollution and is required to get permits for the pollution. Local officials said the permits had not been obtained.
Mr. Hubbard also received from the Vice President a general waiver of the conflict-of-interest rules so that he could consider regulatory issues in general without fear of making decisions on ones that could affect his businesses in an indirect way.
Such waivers are not uncommon among high Federal officials.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The staff of Vice President Dan Quayle's Council on Competitiveness is to be investigated by the House for conflict of interest. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (93%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (93%); COUNCIL ON COMPETITIVENESS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (73%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (70%); WETLANDS (69%); TORT REFORM (60%); 

PERSON: HILTS, PHILIP J; QUAYLE, DAN (VICE PRES); HUBBARD, ALLAN B JOHN CONYERS (78%); AL GORE (74%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



773 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: ARAB-ISRAEL TALKS MAY MOVE TO U.S.

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel and Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d discussed today where to hold the next round of direct talks between Israel and its Arab neighbors, with Washington the almost certain site.
Since the Madrid talks broke up two and half weeks ago, Israel, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and the Palestinians have not been able to agree on when and where to meet again. Mr. Baker said that if they could not agree within two weeks, the co-sponsors, the United States and Soviet Union, would choose a compromise site and invite the parties there. 
 Administration officials say Washington is almost certainly the compromise site, because it is the least objectionable to all the parties. This is because none of the parties view Washington as perfect either.
The Palestinians want the United States to resume its dialogue with the Palestine Liberation Organization before they come to Washington, so that P.L.O. officials will be able to sit on the sidelines for the talks. The Syrians want to be taken off the State Department list of countries supporting terrorism before they send their diplomats to Washington. The Israelis want to have the talks in the Middle East, to underscore their acceptance by the other Arab countries, but they would have a hard time vetoing Washington.
"No one is wildly enthusiastic about Washington, but no one has a better idea that everyone else might agree on," an Administration official said.
 
Baker Reports Progress
 Speaking to reporters after the two-hour meeting with Mr. Shamir, Mr. Baker said they discussed the site question and made "progress," but he did not elaborate. Asked if the site might be announced on Friday after Mr. Shamir meets with President Bush, Mr. Baker said, "Perhaps."
When Mr. Shamir was asked if Israel was now ready to come to Washington to continue the talks, he would only say, "We have discussed this question of venue together with other questions and we have not yet decided."
Israeli officials said that one thing that Mr. Shamir was trying to establish in his talks today with Mr. Baker and on Friday with President Bush is the general American approach to these negotiations. Israeli officials are saying that Mr. Shamir is serious about engaging in negotiations with the Palestinians, but before he really goes down that road he wants to make certain that the United States is ready to be a true "honest broker," and not the protector of Palestinian interests.
One of the tests for Mr. Shamir to make that determination is whether the Bush Administration is prepared to grant Israel -- unconditionally -- the $10 billion in housing loan guarantees that it is seeking. A decision on that has been postponed by Washington until late January. The Bush Administration, by contrast, is prepared to look sympathetically on the Israeli loan request -- although probably not at the level of $10 billion -- provided it feels Mr. Shamir is serious about pursuing real negotiations with the Palestinians.
 
Bush Test for Israel
 For Mr. Bush, the test of Israel's seriousness is whether Mr. Shamir is willing to accept conditions to the $10 billion that would insure that none of the money is spent on new settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip -- preferably by freezing building there altogether.
Since September, when the Administration persuaded Congress to postpone debate on this housing loan question, the ground has shifted on the issue. The increasing turmoil in the Soviet Union has spurred more Jewish immigration to Israel, making Mr. Shamir that much more desperate for the housing loans.
At the same time, though, the political environment in Washington has also changed. Both Democratic and Republican supporters of Israel have been quietly telling the Israelis that given the current recession, and the general reluctance of the American taxpayer to spend money abroad now that the cold war is over, they will have a very hard time justify voting $10 billion in housing loan guarantees for Israel in an election year.
"I would say that this is going to be the first year in American history when foreign aid support for Israel is going to be more dangerous than opposition to it," said Representative David R. Obey, the Wisconsin Democrat who chairs the House subcommittee on foreign operations.
The only way that a majority of Congress can justify a vote is if it can be cast as a "vote for peace," Congressional officials say, and the only way that can happen is if it has the Administration's full backing. The only way it is going to get that is if Mr. Shamir agrees to freeze settlements.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir, top, who met with Secretary of State James A. Baker 3d yesterday about the Middle East peace talks, listened to introductions before addressing Jewish leaders in Baltimore. In Tel Aviv, Shimon Peres, the Labor Party leader, voted at the party's convention, where a more dovish Middle East policy was adopted to help distinguish the party more clearly from Mr. Shamir's Likud Party. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SHMR (TASE) (92%); SHMR (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (93%); JORDAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: SHAMIR OPTICAL INDUSTRY LTD (92%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (83%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;MIDDLE EAST; GAZA STRIP; WEST BANK; ISRAEL UNITED STATES (99%); ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); SYRIA (93%); JORDAN (92%); LEBANON (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); TERRORISM (67%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; SHAMIR, YITZHAK (PRIME MIN); BAKER, JAMES A 3D (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE (PRES) SHIMON PERES (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



774 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: Subway Riders Balk at Planned Fare Rise

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Archie Johnson, an unemployed construction worker from Queens, says the proposed $1.40 bus and subway fare would be more than an inconvenience, it would be another obstacle to finding a job.
Because he takes a bus and then the subway from his home in South Jamaica to Manhattan, where he is seeking work, Mr. Johnson said his daily round-trip fare would jump a dollar, to $5.60. 
 "Those that don't have it, they'll get hurt the worst," the 37-year-old Mr. Johnson said, as he waited for a bus on a Bronx street corner yesterday, on his way to visit relatives. "And right now, I don't have it."
As the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority yesterday held the first in a series of public hearings preceding its Dec. 20 vote on the proposed 25-cent fare increase, New Yorkers reacted with indignation, both at the hearing at Borough Hall in Kew Gardens, Queens, and in the subways.
At the hearing, more than 150 angry commuters, many waving homemade placards, applauded one speaker after another who stepped up to a microphone and derided the proposed fare increase.
 
Many Complaints
 Like Mr. Johnson, most commuters in the subways and at the hearing said they had been hit hard by the recession. Though some said they sympathized with the M.T.A., which itself has been affected by the sluggish economy, most riders said the agency should look elsewhere for assistance. Ticking off complaints about the subways -- foul smells, delays and crowded trains were cited often -- many straphangers said the agency must make further improvements before a fare increase would be justified.
"The service we get, and the conditions of the trains -- they should not get another dime," said Darlene Porter, 43, who had just stepped off an X6 bus at the corner of River Avenue and East 161st Street in the High Bridge section of the Bronx. "They should reduce the fare."
Last week the Transit Authority recommended that the fare be increased by 25 cents on Jan. 1 unless Albany could help close the agency's estimated $263 million deficit in 1992. While some legislators and aides to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mayor David N. Dinkins have expressed a desire to limit the increase, neither the state nor the city has much financial aid to offer.
Most of the riders who spoke yesterday said they would blame the M.T.A., the Transit Authority or "the government" for the increase, but few cited the Mayor or the Governor by name.
Beverly Dolinsky, the executive director of the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee to the M.T.A., a state-mandated oversight board, said she feared a $1.40 fare would drive New Yorkers -- and the revenue they provide -- away from the transit system and into illegal vans, which she said pull up at bus stops during rush hour and often charge riders $1. Others, she said, might take to their own cars, raising environmental concerns and causing congestion.
"Lots of companies leave the city because it's hard to get around," Ms. Dolinsky said.
But Prof. Mitchell L. Moss, the director of the New York University urban research center, said a fare increase would have little impact on the local economy.
"The cost of the subway fare doesn't determine whether people go to the theater or go shopping," Professor Moss said.
Though many New Yorkers angrily questioned the increase, there were exceptions. As she emerged from the subway station at the corner of West 72d Street and Broadway in Manhattan, Mamie Bostick, a cashier at a nearby branch of the Offtrack Betting Corporation, said the $1.40 fare was painful but necessary.
"I'm all for it if this is going to keep people in their jobs," said Ms. Bostick, 48.
Most however, sided with Toby Axelrod, a 35-year-old staff writer for Jewish Week newspaper, who said she might avoid the subways if the fare goes up.
"I've been thinking about walking to work," said Ms. Axelrod, who estimated her Greenwich Village residence was a two-mile jaunt from her office in Times Square.
As she sat in front of a microphone several feet from the M.T.A. board members last night, Marianne Loser, a retired medical researcher, urged that the fare increase be avoided.
"This increase hits hardest the segment of the population that can least afford to pay it," said Ms. Loser, the president of the community association in Briarwood, Queens. "Increases have to be earned by good performance. The M.T.A. has not earned this increase."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A demonstrator protesting the proposed subway fare increase at a hearing of the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; SUBWAYS; BUSES; PUBLIC OPINION URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); MAYORS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); TRAINS (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); 

PERSON: STEINBERG, JACQUES

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



775 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Offer Plan To Replace Income Tax

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Nov. 21

 BODY:
Top Republican legislators, who have spent the year leading a coalition of moderates and conservatives in both parties in fighting against a tax on wages, said today they were returning to their "Republican roots."
Party leaders presented a plan today to replace the state's three-month-old income tax. The plan's centerpiece was $300 million in spending cuts, including sweeping reductions in many social programs like welfare, job training and housing assistance for the poor that the lawmakers said Connecticut can no longer afford to finance with the generosity of the past. The result would be the largest one-year tax cut in state history, $429 million that lawmakers said would be left in residents' pockets, to be spent, they said, reviving the economy. 
 The Republican plan would also restore much of the tax structure that existed before the Aug. 22 law passed: The sales tax, now 6 percent, would go back up by more than a third, to 8.25 percent. Previous taxes on income from dividends, interest and capital gains would be restored. The 4.5 percent tax on wages would end on Jan. 1.
 
Sharp Departure
 The document marked a sharp departure, in both specifics and philosophy, from plans put forward this summer as the Legislature battled Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. over how to resolve the state's fiscal crisis. Those proposals were identified as coalition budgets meant to appeal to moderate Democrats in trying to build a majority in the General Assembly, where Democrats are in control.
"There has been a change from the coalition," said Representative Reginald L. Jones, a Republican from Darien and a ranking member of the Appropriations Committee.
At a news conference announcing the plan at the Capitol, Mr. Jones said: "We're cutting more government spending. And we're forcing more money into the private sector to give a surge to consumption."
Other party leaders, using far more strident language than in the past to attack the Democrats, said that if a majority does emerge around some plan to repeal the income tax, it will probably be the Democrats who will have to come around to the new Republican way of thinking, not the other way around.
"We're standing on our Republican budget," said Senator M. Adela Eads, a Republican from Kent and the minority leader in the Senate. "I'm not going to say whether they're going to join us," she said of the moderate Democrats who would be needed to make the Republican plan anything but a minority pipe dream.
 
New Tax Categories
 The Republican plan, while restoring most of the revenue system based on sales tax that existed before August, would also go beyond that old system in creating several new tax categories. Perhaps hoping to capitalize on the casino under construction by the Mashantucket Pequot Indians in Ledyard, the lawmakers said they would tax gambling income under the 7 percent capital gains tax.
The dividends and interest tax, which peaked at 14 percent under the old law, would rise to a maximum rate of 10 percent. But income from rents and royalties would be taxed for the first time, along with stock dividends and interest from savings accounts. The sales tax rate would be 8.25 percent beginning in January, but one-quarter percent of that would be eliminated on July 1, 1994.
The major spending cuts include more than $56 million in reduced programs at the Department of Income Maintenance, the state welfare agency. Lawmakers said $35 million could be saved by writing new guidelines that would govern general-assistance awards in towns where local standards now prevail.
Democrats attacked the Republican plan as an onslaught against the poor that was built with numbers that would not balance. They said that many of the spending reductions, while perhaps possible over time, could not achieve the savings needed in the six months that would be left in the fiscal year between January and July 1. Governor Weicker announced on Monday that the state already faced a gap of $175 million in its $7.6 billion budget for the fiscal year.
The Democratic Party's political director, Jonathan W. Pelto, who is also a pro-income tax state representative from Storrs, said he thought the budget marked a realization by the Republicans that the repeal effort would not succeed. Instead of a real budget document, he said it was instead more like the opening shot of the campaign for next year's legislative elections.
Lawmakers in both parties have said for weeks that a majority exists in the General Assembly willing to vote for repeal of the income tax. However, both sides have also conceded that a two-thirds majority has not been achieved. Mr. Weicker has said he would veto any repeal bill and the failure to reach two-thirds would leave the law unchanged.


GRAPHIC: Republican leaders in the Connecticut Legislature have proposed $300 million in spending cuts, along with a higher sales tax, in their effort to repeal the state's income tax. Here is a sampling of the cuts proposed.
 
* $56.5 million from programs of the Department of Income Maintenance, including changes in welfare services, a $50-a-month cut in rent subsidies for recipients of Aid to Families with Dependent Children and a reduction, from 80 to 60 days, in the duration of emergency housing payments.
 
* $25 million from reductions in using car phones, hiring consultants, making in-state trips and buying office supplies.
 
* $18 million from seling Off Track Betting.
 
* $5 million from seling 2,000 state cars.
 
* $2.98 million from a 10 percent cut in aid to towns for roads.
 
* $2 million from out-of-state trave.
 
* $200,000 from eliminating many "800" or toll-free phone lines.
 
* $100,000 by eliminating bottles water in most state buildings.
 
* $90,000 from funds for the Connecticut Science Park.
 
* $9,450 from sheriffs' training programs.
 
(Source: Republicans in the Connecticut Legislature)
Chart: "BUDGET CUTS: Slabs and Slivers"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WELFARE (US); TAXATION; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); LEGISLATION (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



776 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: School Segregation Case Too Knotty, Lawyers Say

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: NEW BRITAIN, Conn., Nov. 21

 BODY:
Lawyers for the state argued today that a lawsuit attacking the de facto segregation that divides Hartford from its suburbs raises questions of social policy far too sweeping and complex for a single judge to decide.
Assistant Attorney General John R. Whelan also said the state should not be held responsible for segregation that arises out of residential patterns, rather than from intentional government policies like the Jim Crow practices of the South before the 1960's. 
 He said the complexity of the case, and the novel legal theories that a team of civil rights lawyers is using in its effort to force the integration of suburban schools with the city's, require the case to go first to the state Supreme Court, to resolve conflicting interpretations of the law.
Otherwise, he said, a trial would be "an expensive and fruitless exercise that would be more likely to do harm than produce positive results."
 
Constitution Violated
 The lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, Wesley W. Horton, responded that the issue is not the complex social and economic conditions that result in overwhelmingly minority city schools, surrounded by overwhelmingly white suburban schools.
The issue, he said, is that Hartford's public schools are 91 percent black and Hispanic, and that the segregation violates Connecticut's constitution by denying those students equal educational opportunity with suburban children.
"If a school is 91 percent minority, that is intolerable regardless of why it occurred," Mr. Horton said.
Today was the second time that lawyers for the state have tried to block the lawsuit, known as Sheff v. O'Neill, from proceeding to trial. The case is named after Milo Sheff, a black Hartford student, and William A. O'Neill, who was governor when the suit was filed in 1989.
In 1990 the Superior Court judge in the case, Harry Hammer, rejected similar arguments as the state sought a dismissal: that the state government is not to blame for the de facto school segregation in Hartford and other cities; that there are no clear-cut solutions for a judge to adopt, and that the state, in any case, has taken some steps to help city schools and achieve racial balance.
The issues are so sweeping, Mr. Whelan said, embracing education, housing, poverty and even public health, that they are best handled by the Legislature.
"What is being suggested is a dramatic expansion of the powers of the court," he said.
Mr. Horton and other lawyers involved in the suit readily admit they seek to break new ground by overcoming a United States Supreme Court barrier, from a 1974 case involving Detroit, to integrating schools by busing students across city lines.
The Sheff case is based on the Connecticut Constitution. If a judge accepts the lawyers' arguments that the Constitution bars segregation -- de facto, as well as intentional -- and guarantees equal educational opportunity, Mr. Horton and other lawyers say the state has the authority to order any remedy necessary, including the busing of children across the Hartford city line.
The tangled nature of desegregation in Connecticut could be seen in court as Mr. Whelan acknowledged that the state has all the powers it needs to order regional school districts as a way to achieve integration.
Mr. Whelan also acknowledged that Connecticut has seen fit in the recent past to order towns and cities to balance the racial composition of all schools within any one district -- regardless of the reason for an imbalance.
Just this month, Mr. Whelan successfully argued before another Superior Court judge a case against Waterbury in which the state's authority to enforce its racial balance law was upheld in court for the first time.
Judge Hammer, at times, appeared intrigued by Mr. Whelan's dual role, arguing in one case for a court order forcing the city of Waterbury to redress the de facto segregation in its schools, and arguing here that the state should not be similarly ordered to end the de facto segregation that divides its local school districts.
"I have a brief in the Waterbury case that could have been written by Mr. Horton," Judge Hammer told the assistant attorney general.
 
A Meaningless Law?
 Connecticut is one of the few states in the nation to have adopted a racial balance law, but even this pioneering step has been attacked by the Sheff lawyers.
They say that limiting desegregation efforts to individual towns and cities makes the law meaningless in cities like Hartford, where there is no significant white enrollment, and leads to white flight -- and intensified segregation -- in other cities.
"When a white parent sees his child will go to a 90 percent minority school, and sees that neighboring suburbs aren't contributing, he'll just go to one of those towns," Mr. Horton said.
If Judge Hammer rules against the state after today's arguments, a trial is likely to be scheduled for some time in 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;CONNECTICUT; HARTFORD (CONN) UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES; BLACKS (IN US); DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; HOUSING LAWYERS (92%); RACE & RACISM (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); LITIGATION (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SUBURBS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (87%); JUDGES (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (52%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE; WHELAN, JOHN R (ASST ATTY GEN)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



777 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: PLAN SEEKS TO CUT DELAY AT AIRPORTS

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 21

 BODY:
To relieve airport congestion and reduce delays in cities where many routes intersect, like New York, the Transportation Department is proposing to let airports charge higher landing fees during rush hours, Transportation Secretary Samuel K. Skinner said today.
Mr. Skinner said the proposal was a natural evolution from airline deregulation; if there are problems with deregulated airways, he said, the answer is not more regulation, but less. 
 The theory is that airlines would then shift some of their flights to less busy times, saving millions of dollars that are wasted because of delays while avoiding the costs of expanding airports. These savings could then be passed on to customers who do not insist on traveling at peak hours like the early morning and evening.
But airlines are deeply skeptical, saying that their own ticket price variations already steer people away from rush-hour travel. And private airplane owners are downright hostile to the proposal, saying it would effectively ban them from airports at rush hour.
 
Blocked Similar Proposal
 The idea of "congestion pricing" at airports has been popular among economic theorists for several years. But until now, the Transportation Department has done little to encourage its adoption by airports. Indeed, two years ago it successfully blocked a similar proposal for Boston's Logan Airport.
"Economists and academics have been talking about this, but nobody has yet put together a plan for doing it that is practical," said Robert J. Aaronson, president of the Air Transport Association, which represents the airlines.
Mr. Aaronson suggested that it would take huge increases in landing fees to dissuade airlines from scheduling their flights at the times of day when most passengers want to travel.
The same conclusion was reached two years ago in a study of peak-hour pricing by the Brookings Institution. The institution estimated that the average landing fee for each passenger would have to rise as much as tenfold at busy airports like New York's La Guardia before any effect on traffic would be seen. That could mean an increase in ticket prices of about $30.
 
Warding Off Smaller Planes
 Mr. Aaronson, who was previously the aviation director for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates La Guardia, Newark and Kennedy Airports, said that during his tenure "we looked at it fairly regularly and we reached the conclusion that the size of the increase would be so large that we would be embarrassed."
At present, there is a surcharge of $100 for landing at La Guardia at the busiest times of day, but this serves mainly to ward of the smallest of airplanes. Passengers on large jets would barely notice the effect on ticket prices.
After the Massachusetts Port Authority proposed in 1988 to alter its landing fees at Logan Airport in a way that would have made it prohibitively expensive for virtually all smaller planes to land there, the Transportation Department interceded and blocked the arrangement in court, saying it was discriminatory. Since then, no major airport has attempted to impose such an arrangement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US) PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%); AIRLINES FOR AMERICA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RATES; DELAYS (TRANSPORTATION) AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); AIRPORT OPERATION (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (63%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR SAMUEL KNOX 'SAMUEL K' SKINNER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



778 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2143 words

HEADLINE: In Eye of Economic Storm, the Port Authority Battens Down

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER with JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Buffeted by the recession and humbled somewhat by the mixed results of its ambitious innovations of the last decade, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey is pulling back. It is no longer planning the incinerators, industrial parks and other economic development projects that occupied it in the 80's.
The huge agency -- the largest, most varied, most powerful port authority in the country -- is returning to basics, concentrating its money, expertise and attention on renewing its prime assets: the region's airports, trans-Hudson bridges and tunnels, the port and the PATH rail line that connects Newark, Jersey City, Hoboken and Manhattan. And even with $1.7 billion in annual revenue, its ability to finance everything it would like to do is uncertain.
 
Following a Mandate

 "We're in a period, and I think it will be a sustained period, of limited resources," said Stanley Brezenoff, who became the Port Authority's executive director last year and who once served as Edward I. Koch's first deputy mayor. "Like everyone else in the region, we're experiencing the effects of the recession." 
 In the flush 1980's the authority experimented with developing everything from real-estate development to a fish market. It spent $25 million on the fish market, called Fishport, in south Brooklyn, which proved to be a dismal failure because the fishing boats and wholesalers never came. Other enterprises have proved more successful. A Japanese company assembles subway cars in an industrial park in Yonkers, and tenants are filling a legal center in downtown Newark (dubbed "tort port" by the agency's staff).
For 70 years, the bi-state agency has continually re-invented itself, largely because its mandate to help develop the local economy is broad. It was created to make order among the 14 different railroads that served the port in 1921. By the next decade, its responsibilities had broadened to include the Holland Tunnel and the George Washington Bridge.
Quasi-autonomous, the Port Authority is influenced primarily by three masters: the Governors of New York and New Jersey, and the economy. Each Governor appoints six of the agency's 12 board members, and each can veto any of the authority's initiatives. One of the prime tasks of the executive director and board chairman, who reign from offices high in the World Trade Center, is to maintain a delicate balance between the states, with each reaping equal dividends from the agency's activities.
Every new director and board chairman has reshaped the Port Authority's role, often with considerable prodding from the Governors. Mr. Brezenoff and Richard C. Leone, who took over as board chairman last year, have made clear that their mandate is to scale back the agency's costs and ambitions.
The top priority now is rebuilding the region's three major airports -- Kennedy International, La Guardia and Newark -- to make them more competitive with the country's newest and best regional airports, Mr. Brezenoff said. The renovations, he said, "are the single most important things that the Port Authority can do."
The authority is proposing one significant and large-scale innovation, to be coupled with the airport rehabilitations: a $1.6 billion light rail line connecting Kennedy and La Guardia Airports with the subway and Long Island Rail Road in Queens. A similar rail line would connect Newark Airport with mass transit in Newark and would cost an estimated $400 million to $500 million.
The rail links, long sought by planners who considered the Port Authority unfriendly to mass transit, will be financed by a new $3 tax on departing airport passengers that was approved last year by Congress.
Other bold initiatives are unlikely, Mr. Brezenoff said, because of the economic climate -- the agency's revenues are essentially flat -- and because it will cost at least $3 billion to rebuild the airports.
"I wish we were here when it looked like the sky's the limit," Mr. Leone said. "The major thing we are doing is exercising a certain amount of prudence."
 
Still a Leader, But Quite Vulnerable
 The retooling of the Port Authority comes at a particularly vulnerable time. Besides the ordinary cycles of the economy, the agency confronts broad economic and geopolitical forces that have enabled other regions to compete more effectively with the New York area than at any time this century.
Just last year, New York and New Jersey were eclipsed by Los Angeles as the nation's largest maritime port. The port, which consists primarily of huge container shipping terminals on the waterfronts of Newark and Elizabeth, N.J., has grown far more slowly over the last decade than a half-dozen other ports on the East and West Coasts. But it is still ranked second in the value of cargo that it handles.
Kennedy Airport is still the country's leading center for air cargo. But the deregulation of the airline industry and the growth of other regional airports as trans-Atlantic gateways, including those in Washington, Atlanta, Chicago and Boston, has cut into the proportion of domestic travelers who come to Kennedy to board flights to Europe and beyond. This year Kennedy accounted for 40 percent of the trans-Atlantic passengers departing from the United States, down from 50 percent in 1985, according to the Port Authority.
The difficulties of getting into and out of Kennedy, which is now 30 years old, and is somewhat run-down in appearance, do not enhance its image or that of the region, many critics say.
"It's embarrassing," said George Sternlieb, a professor emeritus at Rutgers University and former director of the university's Center for Urban Research. "You go down to Florida and you look at Tampa-St. Pete, for example, and we look like an old-age home."
Plans to rebuild Kennedy, drawn up four years ago, centered on the construction of a $1 billion central terminal that would connect passengers to individual airline terminals by a monorail. The new terminal, along with the monorail, was canceled last year because the financially pressed airlines, which would have borne most of the cost, could not afford it.
 
Facing Wider Needs With Limited Ability
 Some critics say these problems indicate that the Port Authority's difficulties are far deeper than the recession. They contend that the agency no longer has the financial wherewithal, the vision or the political muscle to represent the long-term interests of the New York region.
"It has gone from being an autonomous agency to being a collection of what used to be competence," Dr. Sternlieb said. "Still very heavy in terms of overhead, it's an old-fashioned steam engine that for the moment is just sort of lying in the scrap heap, with people occasionally ripping off the pieces.
"Conceptually, it's never been more needed than now," Dr. Sternlieb said. "It should be the spearhead to provide some regional leadership. What the region is missing is leadership, someone to sell the region."
But others maintain that the outlook is less bleak than it appears. They say that it is vitally important for the agency to focus its efforts on the airports, and that Kennedy could be made much better even without a new main terminal.
Many academics and planners who monitor the Port Authority also said the new emphasis on providing mass transit lines to the airports represented a major, and welcome, departure.
"The airports are now far more important to the region than ever," said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of planning at New York University and director of the university's Urban Research Center. "The airports are more important to the economy today than the seaports were 100 years ago. They are the modern day equivalent of the steamships and railroads tied into one."
Stephen Berger, who ran the Port Authority between 1985 and 1990, is credited with shifting the agency's attention back to the airports.
"Steve Berger was important," Professor Moss said, "because he got the Port Authority back to basics, back to infrastructure, back to the airports and transportation." Mr. Brezenoff and Mr. Leone "are going to build on Berger," he said.
Historically, the Port Authority grew into a $1.7 billion-a-year enterprise because of the rise of the automobile and the airplane. Revenue from tolls at the George Washington Bridge, the Lincoln and Holland Tunnels and the three bridges connecting New Jersey and Staten Island -- along with money from the airports and from the World Trade Center, which is also owned by the authority -- have underwritten many other agency activities, including the Port Authority Trans-Hudson line and the economic development projects.
The Port Authority was often more sympathetic to the demands of automobile drivers than to planners' longing for more mass transit to ease the area's clogged highways, several experts said. Many people see a new receptivity to rail transit under Mr. Leone and Mr. Brezenoff.
"I sense a new openness and a willingness to consider more than the bottom line," said Richard T. Anderson, president of the Regional Plan Association, a research and advocacy group.
Several Port Authority officials said that even with the rise in international travel from other American airports, the region's airports were holding their own. While losing its proportion of international passenger traffic, Kennedy is still very much No. 1, said David Z. Plavin, the Port Authority's director of aviation.
Mr. Plavin also said Kennedy would be rebuilt, even without the central terminal, so that people could move into and around the airport more easily. For example, the airport's road system is being reconfigured, dividing access to terminals into quadrants so cars and buses no longer have to circle the entire airport, contributing to massive traffic jams, just to get to their destinations.
And earlier this month, three major airlines that have used Kennedy's International Arrivals terminal for decades -- Japan Airlines, Lufthansa and Air France -- said they wanted to build a new terminal at the site of a building abandoned last year by Eastern Airlines.
At La Guardia, the main terminal is being rebuilt, and a new terminal under construction at the airport's eastern end, next to the Trump Shuttle, should be open next spring, Mr. Plavin said.
 
Branching Out With Mixed Results
 While the Port Authority has spent significant amounts of money in the 1980's on the airports, particularly Newark, much of the agency's intellectual and political capital was expended on new economic development projects, like industrial parks and incinerators.
The agency's top executives, along with the Governors of New York and New Jersey, wanted the agency to branch out. Industrial parks were created in the South Bronx, Yonkers and Elizabeth, N.J., in response to the Governors' desire for the authority to help more with regional economic development.
The legal center in downtown Newark was built only after Thomas H. Kean, then the New Jersey Governor, said the agency should commit itself to the project if it wanted his support for a 1983 toll increase, a former Port Authority official said.
The overall results were mixed. An incinerator in Newark is performing two technological miracles: burning garbage to create electricity, and making money for the Port Authority in the process. But the agency has worked for a decade to create huge office and residential developments on the waterfronts of Hoboken, Brooklyn Heights and Hunters Point, Queens. So far, not a brick has been laid.
Peter C. Goldmark Jr., who as executive director between 1977 and 1985 presided over the Port Authority's era of expansion, said it was not surprising that the track record was uneven.
"If you try different things, some of them aren't going to work," he said. "If you're only going to play if you bat a thousand, don't even come to the ballpark."
Mr. Goldmark, who now heads the Rockefeller Foundation, said the Port Authority should pursue more of the kinds of difficult, capital-intensive, long-term projects that it does best. He said the agency should build more industrial parks, get involved in hazardous waste disposal and consider helping to repair the city's public works, particularly the East River bridges.
"I think our fundamental problem is that the political leadership doesn't know what to ask of the Port Authority," he said.
But others think that less should be asked, so the agency can concentrate on its primary responsibilities. Mr. Berger, who succeeded Mr. Goldmark, said he thought that real estate and industrial parks and incinerators could be left to other government agencies and the private sector.
"By putting a lot of intellectual energy into these areas, you really didn't do what was crucial -- putting money into the basic infrastructure," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map "The Port Authority's Reach" shows locations of bridges, airports, tunnels, terminals and other projects. (pg.B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: PORT AUTHORITY OF NY AND NJ

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; AIRPORTS PORT AUTHORITIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); GOVERNORS (86%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (76%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (75%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (75%); CITY LIFE (74%); CITIES (74%); TRENDS (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); MARINE VESSELS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AIRPORTS (70%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; STEINBERG, JACQUES; BREZENOFF, STANLEY

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



779 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Vallone Offers Own Plan For City's Fiscal Problems

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

 BODY:
Saying Mayor David N. Dinkins's four-year plan for closing the city's budget gaps lacks specifics, the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, yesterday offered a long-term fiscal plan of his own that calls for more job cuts and a four-year property-tax freeze.
By offering the plan, the Speaker and the Council leadership appeared to be seizing an opportunity to advance their budget priorities, taking advantage of the criticism the Mayor's plan has drawn from fiscal monitors since it was released on Sept. 6. 
 "This was not meant to be, nor is it, an attack on the Mayor," Mr. Vallone said. "All it is is the legislative branch coming forward much quicker than under ordinary circumstances to supply the missing part of what was not in the Mayor's plan."
Mayor Dinkins said: "I don't see it as an attempt to step on my toes. I see it as useful."
Mr. Vallone's plan is noteworthy because he initially supported the Mayor's plan. That was before Felix G. Rohatyn, the chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, said the plan amounted to borrowing money to freeze taxes and did not shrink the government significantly. Bond rating agencies agreed.
 
Deeper Cuts Planned
 Echoing many of Mr. Rohatyn's complaints, Mr. Vallone's plan calls for deeper cuts in the work force than the Mayor proposed -- 24,300 jobs rather than 16,400 -- and calls for a property-tax freeze for four years rather than two years. Like the Mayor's plan, the Council would shrink the work force through attrition and pay for raises with labor concessions.
It also proposes several ways to prune city services. The Council would transfer the City University to the state, sell the municipal hospital system to a nonprofit corporation, and shift the property managed by the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development to community groups.
To streamline the government, the Council's plan would merge the city's three police departments, turn the recycling program over to a private company, and create an "infrastructure authority" that would administer all capital projects. It would also create an omnibus licensing agency and merge the Board of Elections with the Campaign Finance Board.
The Mayor asserted that several parts of Mr. Vallone's plan were unworkable. A merger of the police forces would end up costing more than it would save because of the different benefit packages the officers receive, he said. And selling the hospital system to a private corporation could jeopardize the hospitals' commitment to treat the poor.
A crucial difference between the two plans is how they use $1 billion in aid the M.A.C. can provide the city by stretching out payments on bonds issued by the corporation on behalf of the city. The administration initially planned to finance a two-year freeze on property taxes with the M.A.C. funds, but Mr. Rohatyn objected strenuously, forcing the Dinkins budget officials to rethink the plan.
Mr. Vallone's proposal uses $600 million of the M.A.C. money to pay for workers that will be phased out by the third year of the plan through agency consolidations. The other $400 million would be put in an emergency "rainy day" fund to cushion the city from future economic downturns.
"It seems to me at first glance that the City Council plan is more compatible to our views," Mr. Rohatyn said yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; TAXATION; LAYOFFS (LABOR) CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); MAYORS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); BUDGETS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); LABOR FORCE (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BONDS (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (70%); HOSPITALS (67%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (61%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); LICENSES & PERMITS (50%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: VALLONE, PETER F (COUNCILMAN); DINKINS, DAVID N (MAYOR)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



780 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: In Albany, Confusion Clouds Multiyear Financial Plan

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 21

 BODY:
While Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and legislative leaders were boasting publicly today of making significant progress in state budget talks, their aides were conceding privately that the negotiations over a multiyear financial plan were mired in confusion.
Mr. Cuomo, speaking to reporters in Manhattan, said it represented "a lot of progress" that the State Senate majority leader, Ralph J. Marino, Republican of Oyster Bay, L.I., had signed on to the concept of a budget that would stretch across 15 months. The unprecedented plan, which has been championed by Mr. Cuomo and Assembly Speaker Mel Miller, both Democrats, is intended to close the gaps in both this year's state budget and next year's budget in one step. 
 But the agreement on a framework appears to mean little as long as there is no consensus on what programs would be cut and by how much. With the clock ticking, all sides said today that the talks had produced nothing resembling that kind of agreement.
 
A Nettlesome Issue
 Aides from all camps said there was serious disagreement over how much a variety of proposed cuts in social-service programs would actually save. And at the center of the statistical debate is the same nettlesome issue that forms the crux of the ideological debate -- how much the state could, and should, rein in its rapidly growing Medicaid program.
Senate negotiators have proposed a series of deep cuts for Medicaid that they maintain would save $400 million in the last quarter of this fiscal year, which ends on March 31, and would save about $1.5 billion in the next fiscal year. The state faces a gap of more than $700 million in its $30 billion budget this year and expects a gap that could approach $4 billion next year.
But aides to Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Miller dispute that the proposals suggested by the Senate Republicans could actually save $400 million this year. Using rough calculations, they argue that just over $1 billion will remain in the state's $4 billion Medicaid budget in the last fiscal quarter, which starts on Jan. 1. A cut of $400 million in the last quarter would eliminate about a third of all Medicaid payments, they said.
 
Lag in Reimbursement
 Furthermore, Cuomo aides said, there is often a lag of up to 90 days between the time that Medicaid services are provided by hospitals, doctors and nursing homes and the time the state reimburses those providers. That means that much of the state's Medicaid spending in the last quarter of the fiscal year will be reimbursement for services already provided.
"You can't capture the cash, and the issue between now and March 31 is cash," said one administration official.
Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Miller have both expressed a willingness to cut Medicaid, but they prefer to do it more gradually. They also believe that the Republican proposals focus too much on generating savings by limiting the services available to Medicaid recipients and by restricting eligibility levels.
The fate of the multiyear budget plan is significant not only to the state's fiscal plight but also to Mr. Cuomo's Presidential plans. The Governor said today that he could not run for President if doing so would "make it harder for us to get a budget in the state and the city."
That seemed to be a reference to Mr. Cuomo's concern that Mr. Marino, possibly acting under pressure from the White House, might impede the search for a budget solution to frustrate a Cuomo campaign.
 
Economic Growth Plan
 While Mr. Cuomo spent much of the day dealing with the state budget, he also released a national economic growth plan, a nine-page compilation of proposals that he has advanced in speeches over the last year.
He sent a copy of the plan this morning to Vice President Dan Quayle, who provoked Mr. Cuomo this week by referring to the Governor by his first name on a network television news show. Mr. Cuomo addressed his accompanying letter "Dear Mr. Vice President" and signed it "Sincerely, Mario."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK STATE UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICAID (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NURSING HOMES (70%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV)

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



781 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 26; Column 1; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: The Art Market

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:
"Four years ago, if someone asked me for a loan to buy a collection of baseball cards, I would have laughed," said Bruce Miller, founder of the Art Funding Corporation, a Manhattan-based business that lends collectors, gallery owners and independent dealers the money to purchase art. "I used to only get involved with fine art, but not any longer. In this market you have to diversify."
Mr. Miller admitted that his portfolio, which he said he values "in the mid seven figures," is tiny compared with those of the major lenders for art -- Citibank, Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Sotheby's, Chase Manhattan Bank or IBJ Schroder. But times have changed, as everyone in the business knows. With the art market struggling to find appropriate price levels and the speculators who drove up art prices in the 80's having run far away (some of them all the way into bankruptcy), for some investors art has become more of a liability than an asset. 
 "Art makes most bankers a bit queasy right now," said Edgar B. Howard, senior vice president of IBJ Schroder's program of advisory and financial services for art. "But I feel more comfortable lending money against a great diversified art collection than a Park Avenue apartment."
IBJ Schroder is one of the few banks still willing to lend at all for art. In the late 80's, many institutions saw the opportunity to cash in on the art boom, but most entered the market too late and, like the speculators, either cut way back or completely stopped their art lending. Those remaining are retrenching to meet the new demands of a changing market.
Together with the European banks that are still lending money for art purchases, Mr. Howard estimated the combined credit available to collectors and dealers in the United States and Western Europe at $1.5 billion to $2 billion. That figure, he said, is nominal when compared with the amount of credit available to an American corporation the size of, say, General Electric. "And compared to the billions of dollars of art bought and sold every year, it's not a lot of money either," he said.
He does admit, however, that even these seemingly small loans can make a big difference. "If the loan is strategically placed at an important auction, it can create a favorable tone for the market at a time when boosting may be necessary," he said. In other words, lending money has the potential to inflate the art price structure.
In today's conservative environment, this is a sensitive subject. "Make no bones about it: We're more selective now than we used to be," said Shelton Kaye, a senior vice president at Rosenthal & Rosenthal. Gideon Strauss, managing director of Rosenthal Art Equities, who started the company's art department in the late 60's, said it recognizes a new niche that needs to be filled. Knowing that money from most banks is tight right now, the company is beginning to look at the long term.
In much the same way many banks readily lent money to buy art in the late 80's, Rosenthal & Rosenthal is now offering long-term financing at interest rates that it describes as "more than a bank but less than a credit card." Now more than ever, Mr. Kaye said, "You make your profit in this business if you buy at the right price and hold on to your assets until it's the right time to sell."
Rosenthal & Rosenthal is addressing a problem common to many dealers, who want the money to buy art while prices are low and need the financial solvency to hold on to purchases until the market comes back.
Sotheby's, on the other hand, is responding to the market's need for quick cash. Recognizing that many of its customers are selling artworks because they need money fast and cannot wait three months or so for a scheduled auction, Sotheby's is capitalizing on a policy it began years ago: offering customers short-term advances for about three to six months using the consigned works of art as collateral. "While this is not something new for us, it's the most popular kind of loan we do right now," said Mitchell Zuckerman, president of Sotheby's Financial Services in New York..
As an example, Mr. Zuckerman described a recent arrangement he made with a major collector who needed money to pay his taxes. The collector approached Sotheby's with some items that he wanted to sell at an auction scheduled for in the spring. Using the works as collateral, Sotheby's extended a seven-month loan. The amount of the loan represented about half the art's appraised value.
"If for some reason the objects being auctioned do not sell, the collector still owes us the money," Mr. Zuckerman said. "We're careful about who we make these arrangements with, making sure have the means to pay us."
The auction house also offers one-year loans against a customer's art collection.
Ever since Sotheby's Financial Services was established in 1988 (as of Sept. 30, its loan portfolio amounted to about $206 million), its appropriateness has been hotly debated. To many art dealers, the company seem to be functioning more like a bank than an auction house. And when the auction house itself provides financing, the dealers say, prices are falsely inflated.
This issue became particularly heated when it was learned that Sotheby's had lent $27 million to Alan Bond, the Australian industrialist, in November 1987 to allow him to buy van Gogh's "Irises," which became what was then the most expensive painting in the world. The painting itself was the collateral for the huge loan. It is believed that the timing -- less than a month after the Wall Street crash on Oct. 19, 1987 -- helped boost sales.
"After all the criticism, in January 1990 we stopped offering loans secured by the purchase property," Mr. Zuckerman said. "Given the uncertainties of the economy, we've become much more selective in the past year and a half." Still, he says, what Sotheby's offers clients is one-stop shopping -- everything from art experts to financial services under one roof.
Citibank uses a modified version of Sotheby's all-in-one service as its selling point. Its two-pronged art program consists of an art advisory service and a banking department. Fees for the bank's lending average about 1 or 2 percentage points over the prime rate.
"In 1989, we would get in excess of 10 requests a week about art credit, and only 1 in 25 ended up being our customers," said Jennifer J. Vorbach, a vice president at Citibank's art advisory service. "Now we get maybe two requests a week, but they are from more financially solid people." Ms. Vorbach reluctantly admits that her operation has not been seamless over the last year; like all lending institutions, it has had some "glitches," as she calls them. But the advisory service has grown steadily at 8 percent a year since it started with just two people in 1979, she said, and now Citibank is by far the biggest of the lending institutions.
Bruce Miller, on the other hand, is thinking smaller and smaller. The average loan he makes is about $100,000. "Six months ago, a young Boston executive came to me needing cash to publish a photographer's portfolio," Mr. Miller recalled. "I lent him about $100,000 and took possession of four Jasper Johns prints valued at about $350,000 as collateral." The executive paid Mr. Miller back after eight months. When he did, Mr. Miller told him about another collector interested in purchasing the Johns prints. The Boston executive ended up selling them at a profit. "Often I act as a middleman," said Mr. Miller. "What do I get out of it? More clients."
Using art as collateral -- he stores artworks in warehouses because it helps him "sleep better at night," he said -- Mr. Miller is helping collectors and gallery owners buy everything from doll collections to estate jewelry. "Prices for decorative arts have held up during the recession," he said. "I've always been careful. If I'd lent money on some contemporary-art collections, as I was asked to several years ago, I'd be out of business by now."
In banking, IBJ Schroder's $50 million lending portfolio for art is also considered small. Since he started six years ago, Mr. Howard has been lending primarily to dealers. "We're selectively expanding the business, picking up customers from banks who no longer want to be involved in art," he said.
It's the knowledge that the art market is cyclical that keeps businesses such as IBJ Schroder going. Not long ago, Mr. Howard had his company brochure translated into Japanese. "Unfortunately, it will have to sit on the shelf for a few more years," he said, since Japanese investors have almost completely left the market. "That is, until the tides start to turn."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (73%); WESTERN EUROPE (53%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: ART; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; CREDIT ART DEALERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); ART COLLECTING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRENDS (69%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



782 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 3; Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: On Stage, and Off

BYLINE: By Alex Witchel

 BODY:

Lincoln Center Prognostications
Here's the scoop on Lincoln Center once Andre Bishop takes over as artistic director on Jan. 1: "Four Baboons Adoring the Sun" by John Guare will begin performances at the Vivian Beaumont Theater on Feb. 14 and Peter Hall will direct the cast of three adults and nine children. But the play, about two American archeologists, may only have a six-week run at the Beaumont before "March of the Falsettos" and "Falsettoland," the double bill of one-act musicals by William Finn and James Lapine, follows. It must open by April 29 to be eligible for Tony Awards. 
 Mr. Bishop says that either "Baboons" will have to transfer to a Broadway theater after it opens, or "Falsettos" will bypass the Beaumont and, under Lincoln Center's auspices, open at a Broadway house. Bets now are on "Baboons" moving, since "Falsettos," which received rave reviews during its recent run at the Hartford Stage Company, was directed by Graciela Daniele for a thrust stage, like the Beaumont's, which extends toward the audience. The only options on Broadway are traditional proscenium stages, meaning the production would have to be reworked.
"I believe in one thing at a time," Mr. Bishop says. "I like the Guare play and I'm thrilled that Peter Hall is directing it. The advantage of 'Falsettos' playing in a thrust space is the intimacy between the audience and the actors, but it is a powerful enough piece to be appreciated in all configurations, if it has to be."
And in the Mitzi Newhouse Theater, performances are to begin on Jan. 31 of Jon Robin Baitz's "Substance of Fire," which Mr. Bishop produced last season at Playwrights Horizons. He says he expects the original cast to return for a 12-week run, including Ron Rifkin, who played the patriarch of a family-owned publishing business.
 
Finding a Bankroll for 'Jelly'

The best wallets in the business will be gathering at 890 Broadway on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday for workshop presentations of "Jelly's Last Jam." This is the new musical about the musician Jelly Roll Morton, starring Gregory Hines and written and directed by George C. Wolfe, best known as the author of "The Colored Museum" and the director of "Spunk." How wide the wallets will open remains to be seen. A co-producer, Margo Lion, says the show will cost $5 million, and so far, only $820,000 is in the bank, though she adds that Rocco Landesman, president of Jujamcyn Theaters, has pledged $1 million. Among the other invited potential investors are: the Nederlander and Shubert Organizations, Quincy Jones, Geffen Records, Motown Records, the Bank of Tokyo, the Kennedy Center, Polygram Records, Elizabeth I. McCann, Guber-Peters, David Mirvish, Warner Brothers, M-G-M, Don Taffner and Bobby Short.
There is a lot of heat, as they say, about Mr. Wolfe right now, who, at 37 is about the only news in the musical theater this season. The scenic designer Robin Wagner, who is working on "Jelly," says, "George is the most exciting young director I've worked with since Michael Bennett," for whom he designed both "A Chorus Line" and "Dreamgirls." "He has all the same kind of instincts and gut-level excitement that Michael had, and he can get stuff out of you you never knew you had, the way Michael could. I see a lot of hope and a lot of light." Maybe they'll also see a lot of money.
 
'Peter Pan' Wins. Of Course!

The competition for recession dollars is especially fierce this holiday season, as families finally splurge on some entertainment. The big winner? "Peter Pan," the revival of the classic musical starring Cathy Rigby, which plays at the Minskoff from Tuesday through Jan. 5. Arthur Rubin, executive vice president of the Nederlander Organization, which owns the Minskoff, says the advance sale for the six weeks is already more than $1 million. On the losing side of the holiday gambles is "Moscow Circus, Cirk Valentin," which opened at the Gershwin Theater on Nov. 6 and will close on Dec. 1, because of weak sales.
Steven E. Leiber, its producer, says that he was trying something new by presenting the circus without its famous bears and other animals, in a performance similar to Cirque du Soleil. But like Samson without his hair, the Moscow Circus without its bears has no strength. "This is more like a ballet than a circus," Mr. Leiber says. "But people are staying with the things they know."
One other holiday show that might draw is "A Christmas Carol," a one-man performance of the Dickens classic that is to open on Broadway on Dec. 19. The one man is Patrick Stewart, who plays Jean-Luc Picard, captain of the Enterprise on the television show "Star Trek: The Next Generation." "A Christmas Carol" has been promoted at "Star Trek" conventions and film marathons for the last few months. Sort of gives new meaning to the Ghost of Christmas Future.
 
Holiday Bargains at the Box Office

Christmas cheer comes cheap this year, thanks to Charles Busch and his Theater in Limbo. Ten dollars buys a ticket to a revival of "Times Square Angel: A Hard-Boiled Christmas Fantasy" at Theater for the New City from Nov. 29 through Dec. 15. Mr. Busch, the playwright and drag star,plays Irish Flanagan, a tough nightclub chanteuse who is visited by an angel (an ex-vaudevillian) on Christmas Eve and given the opportunity to change her selfish ways.
New plays come even cheaper. Playwrights Horizons' New Theater Wing starts performances on Dec. 11, and tickets are $5 for each of the three new plays. The first is a collection of four short musicals, "Break/Agnes/Eulogy for Mister Hamm/ Lucky Nurse" by Michael John La Chiusa, starring Alice Playten and Joe Grifasi. The second is "Man, Woman, Dinosaur" by Regina M. Porter, about a fatherless young black man who supports his invalid mother by selling dinosaur sculptures. And the third is "Little Egypt," by Lynn Seifert, about a romance between two oddball sisters who meet two war buddies in rural Illinois.
 
Nathan Lane and Linda Hunt

Time to call in favors from your favorite member of the Century Club. On Monday night Nathan Lane and Linda Hunt will read what Mr. Lane calls "a sort of play" based on the biography by Max Wilk of the agent Audrey Wood and the letters she and her client Tennessee Williams wrote to each other. "It's not unlike 'Love Letters,' " Mr. Lane says. "It's touching and much funnier than I thought. It gives a little history of what the theater was like at that time."


GRAPHIC: On Dec. 1, John Leguizamo of "Mambo Mouth" fame will open "Moving Beyond the Madness: A Festival of New Voices," a two-week program at the Public Theater. He will perform excerpts from "Spic-o-Rama," his new one-man show about a family of six that is to open in New York next spring. The artists in the series have been chosen by the director George C. Wolfe. Tickets are $15. (David Hughes)

Photo: "A New Voice at the Public"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: FOUR BABOONS ADORING THE SUN (PLAY); MARCH OF THE FALSETTOS (PLAY); FALSETTOLAND (PLAY)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (50%); BANK OF TOKYO TRUST CO (50%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); WRITERS (85%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); CHILDREN (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); MUSIC (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); PUBLISHING (50%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; GUARE, JOHN JOHN GUARE (92%); PETER REGINALD FREDERICK HALL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



783 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 4; Weekend Desk; Word and Image Page

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: Critic's Notebook;
Retro-Mania: When TV Was for Families

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR

 BODY:
IN February, CBS struck oldies gold with retrospective specials on three of its most successful series: "The Ed Sullivan Show," "All in the Family" and "The Mary Tyler Moore Show." Well, in television, if it works once, you've got to try it again or start looking for a new job.
So now, happily, we have what is being billed as "CBS Classic Weekend II." Tomorrow at 8 P.M., there's "The Bob Newhart Show 19th-Anniversary Special," and Sunday at 9 P.M. "The Very Best of 'The Ed Sullivan Show' -- II." Actually, the time-warp trip continues into Monday night, at 9:30, with "Memories of M*A*S*H." And then for the days-gone-by insatiable, there is tomorrow's "Party for Richard Pryor," at 9 P.M., crammed with wonderful clips from decades past. 
 Why is television so fixated on the past? Some cable channels are doing quite nicely, thank you, with little more than reruns of series made decades ago, shows like "Rocky Jones" or "Mr. and Mrs. North." The Nostalgia Channel -- yes, there really is one on some cable systems -- touts a "melt-away factor," meaning that as viewers watch favorites from the past the years just melt away. Ponce de Leon, evidently, was on the wrong track.
Retro-mania is upon us, no doubt about it. On the most elevated level, there is the Museum of Television and Radio in Manhattan, preserving invaluable broadcasting and cable material in much the same way that museums around the country have been collecting old movies over the years. At the other extreme, closer to classic camp than anything else, there is the kind of project that exploits the past with an adoring wink. Top example: The current stage version of "The Brady Bunch" Off Broadway using the original television scripts.
Analysts can find endless reasons for the retro craze. For the networks, certainly, repackaging what's already in the vaults is far cheaper than producing new shows, a consideration to be taken seriously in times of lean budgets. And on a broader sociological level, viewers might understandably be eager to escape an unsettling present -- pocked with problems ranging from economic recession to AIDS -- and return to what they perceive, even if inaccurately, as less complicated and decidedly safer times.
And there's something else, something that occurred to me while watching "The Very Best of 'The Ed Sullivan Show' -- II." Back then, not all that long ago, we weren't divvied up as an audience or a people into targeted market groups. Watching Ed Sullivan meant sitting around with the entire family -- parents, children, grandparents, even neighbors -- and knowing that in the course of the hour there would be a little something for everyone. There was no palaver about appealing only to men or to women, to under-25's or over-25's. There was only the basic concept of good entertainment.
And the result could be quite grand. Consider the startling talent lineup in this Sunday's compilation: Established comics like Jack Benny mixed with such new faces as George Carlin and Albert Brooks (doing a hilarious inept-ventriloquist routine); Elvis Presley, the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, all spankingly youthful, side by side with Johnny Mathis singing his new hit "Misty" or Beverly Sills belting out an operatic aria; Richard Burton and Julie Andrews offering, in full costume, the title song from "Camelot"; Sullivan and Peter O'Toole bellowing their way through "When Irish Eyes Are Smiling"; Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev performing a pas de deux from "Swan Lake."
Yes, yes, the medium was still young in those days of the 1950's, 60's and even the 70's. The novelty hadn't worn off, and few of us were anxious about being politically correct. Henny Youngman might tell insulting jokes about his wife. ("My wife got a mud pack and for two days she looked wonderful -- and then the mud fell off.") But that would be balanced by Phyllis Diller's insulting jokes about her husband, Fang. ("His breath is so bad his dentist works on him through the ear.") Eventually, on Ed Sullivan, things had a way of balancing out, even ethnically and racially (the show was an admirable pioneer in showcasing black performers). If you had to sit through still another juggling act, you knew that you'd be rewarded with a song from Nat (King) Cole or a dance by Gwen Verdon.
Television itself, or at least the advertisers searching for specific demographics, has been at the forefront of splitting the mass audience into discrete groups, all the while subtly suggesting that one is incompatible with the other. If you want to attract younger people, goes the theory, you have to give them something that can't possibly appeal to older people. So Fox's "Beverly Hills 90210" is marketed energetically as a youth-oriented series, although it might easily prove attractive to older viewers. Age-group exclusivity becomes the calculated enticement.
Few theories have been more damaging to the very fabric of society. Now we have a former television programmer, Brandon Tartikoff, taking over a major movie studio, Paramount, and warning that "you don't want an abundance of pictures clearly tilted to viewers 25 and up." How, one wonders, did "Gone With the Wind" or "Casablanca" or "Citizen Kane" ever become such gigantic successes without such audience research?
Just about any age group, I suspect, will get a kick out of "CBS Classic Weekend II." The Bob Newhart special allows the star and his co-stars on the 1972-78 series -- Suzanne Pleshette, Peter Bonerz, Marcia Wallace, Bill Daily and Jack Riley -- to amble genially through clips from the series, augmented perfectly with the patented Newhart stammer. And "A Party for Richard Pryor," overseen with unstinting love by the show's host, Eddie Murphy ("Without you, there's no me, brother"), pays richly deserved tribute to an extraordinarily gifted and influential comedian, his career recalled and celebrated by, among others, Arsenio Hall, Lily Tomlin, Keenen Ivory Wayans, Chevy Chase, Robert Townsend and Patti LaBelle.
These excursions into the past do, perhaps, convey a message about the present. If there is an underlying sense of loss, it has less to do with innocence than with a sense of community. That is what retro-mania is probably all about.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On "The Very Best of 'The Ed Sullivan Show' -- II," from top: Elvis Presley, Phyllis Diller and Sullivan. It is part of a CBS nostalgia weekend.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC CBS CORP (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; TELEVISION PROGRAMS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FAMILY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (64%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); SOCIOLOGY (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JOHN J EDWARD VINCENT 'ED' SULLIVAN (92%); MARY TYLER MOORE (73%); RICHARD FRANKLIN LENNOX THOMAS PRYOR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



784 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: TV SPORTS: BASEBALL;
Vincent Sounds an Alarm on TV Revenue

BYLINE: By Richard Sandomir

 BODY:
Baseball Commissioner Fay Vincent has told major league officials that if new television agreements were negotiated today, teams should expect at least 30 percent less than the $1.46 billion now being paid by CBS and ESPN in four-year contracts that expire at the end of 1993.
"It was part of his report to us about a variety of things," said Lou Gorman, general manager of the Boston Red Sox. "Nobody probed it a lot, but everybody understood it'll be a tough go. It wasn't a rosy forecast." 
 Clubs now receive an average of $14 million apiece per year from the TV deals, but Vincent forecast a possible cut of $4 million to $5 million per club if talks were to start now in the recessionary sports economy.
Vincent's remarks came during meetings with general managers in Florida and marketing executives in Arizona earlier this month, and he is expected to speak publicly on the subject next month during baseball's winter meetings in Miami. The comments are not surprising in light of the financial woes the baseball contracts have wrought on CBS and ESPN.
CBS announced a $282 million pre-tax write-off last year of the value of its $1.06 billion baseball contract; $322 million more, partly attributable to baseball, was written off earlier this month. ESPN has lost upward of $100 million on the first two years of its $400 million contract.
Depending on the health of the economy, Vincent may have to revise his gloomy assessment over the next year as baseball prepares to negotiate a new set of broadcast and cable deals. A prominent network executive said CBS's and ESPN's losses and write-offs and the continuing recession could result in baseball's post-1993 TV revenues being half of what they are now.
Officials who heard Vincent's report said their teams face the conflicting pressures of signing expensive free agents like Bobby Bonilla to contracts that extend beyond 1993 at a time when TV revenues will probably fall, making such deals difficult to support. Said Gorman: "If clubs recognize there will be a problem, how do you sign people down the line for five years?"
In 1989, team owners used the prospect of cascading cash from the television contracts to fuel spiraling salaries, committing to expensive player contracts before the TV money actually became available in 1990.
One general manager who asked not to be identified said: "It's disturbing. Much of what we do on the financial side of this business is relative to payroll and any reduction in revenues hurts your ability to sign players."
"The commissioner said the 30 percent drop is a scenario we have to look at seriously," said a marketing executive who insisted on remaining anonymous. "But you don't have to go further than CBS's losses to know how serious the scenario is."
Vincent's appraisal may be an accurate reflection of the current state of the economy but may also be a case of management pleading poverty at a time when players are getting record salaries and this year's top free agents have yet to sign.
The ratings orphans of "Monday Night Football" -- those who watch outside their homes in bars, restaurants, dorms and hotel rooms -- are closer to being part of the A. C. Nielsen brood.
In a study that began in September and covers the first six weeks of the Monday night season, Nielsen has found that an average of 830,000 men age 18 and over tuned in to Al Michaels, Dan Dierdorf and Frank Gifford from out-of-home sites. (An estimated 23.6 million people of all ages -- 66 percent are men -- watch "Monday Night Football.")
The boost by the male out-of-homers adds an extra point, a 6.2 percent increase, to the existing 16.1 in-home rating for men 18 and older, said Richard Montesano, vice president of market research for ABC.
If out-of-home measurements of the 11 other Monday night games buttress the early returns, ABC may, by quantifying how many previously uncounted men exist in the program's key demographic group, have the data to charge advertisers more than the average $250,000 they now pay for 30-second commercial spots.
"Most advertisers know there is an out-of-home audience," said Montesano, "but don't know how big it is."
Jack Loftus, a Nielsen spokesman, added, " 'Monday Night Football' is sold on demographics and if you have another point of men 18 and over, you can charge for it."
ABC hopes that when viewer diaries for the full-season study are accumulated, they will bear out its belief that out-of-homers are younger (age 18-34) than most of the in-home audience (25-54). A younger audience has implications for the type of advertisers buying spots on the show.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CBS INC; ESPN (CABLE TV NETWORK) ESPN INC (92%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CBS INC; ESPN (CABLE TV NETWORK) BOSTON RED SOX (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); MIAMI, FL, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; TELEVISION BASEBALL (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; VINCENT, FAY (COMR) FAY VINCENT (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



785 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: In an Economic Turn, Midwest Meets Europe

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The trend for skyscrapers in Cleveland and Columbus, Ohio, Peoria, Ill., and Milwaukee, when viewed from a domestic real estate perspective, as in Louis Uchitelle's Nov. 5 Business Scene column ("The Last Vestiges of the 80's Boom"), may appear the tail end of a large growth in housing and office building space. However, in a larger context of international trade, what you're seeing is a new wave of economic growth.
Since 1983 my company has been involved with European investment in the United States and United States investment in Central Europe. Cleveland, Peoria and Milwaukee have significant manufacturing bases, which are leading the country in the weak domestic economy. Columbus, although once a farm town, has to its credit a major manufacturing and export base of Honda Motors, less than an hour's drive away. 
 It is also not surprising that two of these cities are in Ohio. Ohio exports close to $200 billion annually, which has made the Cleveland Federal Reserve Bank the strongest regional Federal Reserve Bank in the country. I have European or American clients involved in every city you discuss.
What is truly the trend is the separation of companies involved in international trade from companies traditionally involved in the United States market. The differences in the companies will become even more dramatic over the next few years. I've made more than half a dozen trips to Central and Eastern Europe since last January, and rarely have I met East Coast or West Coast Americans there. Rather, the other Americans I meet are from Ohio, Illinois and other manufacturing states.
To gain a brief historical perspective, look at the German economy of the early 1980's. Despite a weak economy in Europe, German exports to Japan, the United States and other countries provided a major motor to drive the German economy. Once the regional economy picked up, the German manufacturing base expanded even more rapidly. With the opening of Eastern Europe, German manufacturers often have lead times in excess of one year, and the German economy is Europe's driving force.
Only in the last decade have we come to realize that there is not one United States economy, but several regionalized economies. More recently there has been a growing contrast between companies that are international and those that maintain a purely domestic focus. Thus, the activity seen as the last vestiges of the 80's, and their service-orientation perspective, are really the trend of the 90's and the new age of manufacturing and exports.
The trend is not only a matter of international economics, but also one of national security. Only through manufacturing and exports can the United States regain its position as the leading world economic power. It is necessary to point out this development to those who are unaware of it. In addition to that, policy makers need to support and further its development.
 
FREDERICK M. SHEPPERD
Managing Partner, Quadral Group
Akron, Ohio, Nov. 5, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); HMC (NYSE) (69%); 7267 (TSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); PEORIA, IL, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); GERMANY (95%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); OHIO, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (93%); PEORIA, IL, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY REAL ESTATE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



786 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: In an Economic Turn, Midwest Meets Europe;
Sensible Tax Relief

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I agree with "The Law That Ate the Future" (editorial, Nov. 6) on one point: there is no more pressing issue before the United States than the reworking of last year's budget agreement. The economic recession, which has thrown millions of Americans out of work, clearly makes the case for urgent change in the law. Congress needs the financial flexibility to respond to pressing domestic events, so last May I introduced legislation to amend the budget agreement. 
 But the real tragedy of last year's budget agreement is that it raised taxes and fees on low- and middle-income Americans, while trying the hands of Congress to respond adequately to the needs of those working Americans.
The agreement did this after a decade in which most Americans saw their incomes stagnate or even decline, while their tax burdens increased. The 1989 average hourly earnings -- adjusted for inflation -- were $7.64, still below their 1981 level of $7.69. Worse, working Americans have been hit hard by regressive Federal taxes (Social Security, gas, beer) and escalating Medicare fees: In short, regressive taxes and stagnating wages have made the American dream more difficult to attain. And as every American family knows, housing, health care and higher education costs have increased dramatically.
In light of this, I must take issue with your position that tax-cut proposals in Congress for working Americans are a "dangerous and cynical game." You would have the working Americans who suffered most from trickle-down economics pay for the infrastructure improvements that were neglected by that devastating policy. Certainly, Federal investments in America's infrastructure are needed to reinvigorate the American economy. And any sound tax-cut proposal should not deter the Federal Government's ability to make those investments. But the Federal Government should redistribute that burden and do it fairly.
Working Americans are tired of seeing the green grass from the other side of the fence, while too rarely seeing the green of a dollar bill. Americans need both sensible tax relief and investment, and the Federal Government ought to provide both -- sensibly.
 
TED WEISS
Member of Congress, 17th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Nov. 15, 1991
 

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAXES & TAXATION (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAX INCREASES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICARE (71%); STUDENT EXPENSES (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



787 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 22, 1991

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: In an Economic Turn, Midwest Meets Europe;
Capital Gains

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Son of Kemp-Roth: Still Wrong" (editorial, Nov. 13) states: "The capital gains ideas now circulating would produce a windfall profit for rich families on past investment. That couldn't possibly spur future investment." What this familiar argument for taxing capital gains as income neglects is that the "windfall" profit has already been made, and the tax is a deterrent to rolling over that investment into others that we hope would spur investment. 
 The capital gains tax tends to freeze investment profits in past investments when growth has run its course. The Scandinavian countries, long known for steeply graduated taxes on current income, have already given capital gains favored treatment because it spurs future investment.
 
DANIEL C. DeMENOCAL
Rye, N.Y., Nov. 13, 1991

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (52%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX CAPITAL GAINS TAX (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1991



788 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 36; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Your Money;
Some Advantages In Savings Bonds

BYLINE: By Jan M. Rosen

 BODY:
With the interest rates paid on savings accounts, money market funds and short- term certificates of deposit only half to two-thirds their levels of less than a year ago, many savers, particularly retirees, are seeking ways to receive better yields with limited risk.
Joel S. Isaacson, a partner who is in charge of personal financial planning at Clarfeld & Company, a New York accounting firm, recommends United States Government savings bonds. He cited a number of advantages to these bonds: 
 *There is no risk of loss of principal or default.
*Interest, now 6.375 percent, is 85 percent of the six-month average yield for marketable Treasury securities with five years to maturity. There is a guaranteed rate of at least 6 percent if the bonds are held for five years.
*They are sold without commission or redemption fee at banks and savings and loan associations and by mail or over-the-counter at Federal Reserve banks or Treasury offices.
*Interest is not subject to state and local taxes.
*For middle-income people, savings bonds purchased after Jan. 1, 1990, are also free of Federal taxes when used to pay college tuition for the bondholder, the holder's children or a spouse.
*Holders have flexibility in deciding when to recognize the interest for Federal taxes: at redemption, or annually as it accrues. But a decision to take the interest annually will affect all of a person's savings bond holdings, not just certain bonds, and could apply to future purchases as well.
*An individual can convert series EE bonds to series HH bonds and receive interest twice a year, continuing to defer the accrued interest on the EE bonds until the HH bonds mature or are sold.
Series EE bonds are sold at half of their face value in eight denominations ranging from $50 to $10,000, and savers may buy up to $30,000 each year. The bonds accrue interest until they mature 12 years after they are issued.
By purchasing bonds in small denominations, Mr. Isaacson noted, savers can cash in a portion as income is needed, provided they have held them at least six months.
"This is for the person who has been rolling over C.D. money," Mr. Isaacson said. "In the environment we're in, it's not bad." C.D. rates vary with maturity and currently range from a fraction over 4 percent for one month to around 6.4 percent for five years, but the entire yield is taxable. Two years ago, three-month C.D.'s yielding more than 9 percent were available.
Some investors feeling the squeeze of these lower rates have responded to ads for Ginnie Mae funds, collateralized mortgage obligations and high-yield -- that is, junk -- bond funds, he added, without realizing that there can be significant risks to the principal in such investments. "Too many people buy strictly on yield," he said, without understanding all the nuances of the bond market. People who do not understand the market, or who cannot afford to risk the principal, do not belong in such investments.
This is for the most safe part of a portfolio, he said, but not for people who need immediate income, because money withdrawn in less than five years receives interest at a lower rate.
 
Gifts of Art
 Philanthropists have less then six weeks left to make charitable donations of valuable works of art and other tangible personal property and deduct them at fair market value without being trapped by the alternative minimum tax.
That is because Congress, responding to the pleas of museums and other institutions, created what Eli J. Warach, a tax lawyer and author of the "Maxwell Macmillan 1992 Federal Tax Handbook," calls a "one-year escape hatch" for donors in 1991. Whereas normally those liable for the alternative tax could deduct only the cost of the acquisition, all taxpayers can deduct the full appreciated value for 1991, regardless of regular or alternative-tax status.
Avery E. Neumark, a partner in Weber, Lipshie & Company, said he had been counseling affluent clients to make such gifts before the end of the year. But he cautioned that the gift must be related to the charity's purpose, like manuscripts given to a library or paintings to a museum. Even if a hospital hangs a painting or puts an antique in the president's office, he said, it would be hard to argue that those gifts qualified for the 1991 exception.
Barry Salzberg, a partner in Deloitte & Touche in New York, said one of his clients "is going to stockpile donations." Donors cannot deduct amounts equal to more than 30 percent of their income in any one year, he explained, but deductions for charitable contributions made this year can be carried forward up to five years and still qualify for the special 1991 treatment.
Charities are also counseling donors. For example, the New York Philharmonic has scheduled a gift-planning seminar for potential donors of musical instruments from 5:30 to 7:30 P.M. on Dec. 3 at Avery Fisher Hall. It is free, but reservations are required and may be made by calling David Clough at (212) 875-5696.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: SAVINGS BONDS BONDS (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BOND FUNDS (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); TUITION FEES (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: ROSEN, JAN M

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



789 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Settles Mostly Lower As the Mark Gets Stronger

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The dollar settled mostly lower on world currency markets yesterday as traders turned their attention to the German mark.
Gold prices rose. On the New York Commodity Exchange, gold bullion for current delivery settled at $369.30 an ounce, up $1.10 from Thursday. The Republic National Bank said gold advanced $1.10 an ounce, to a late bid price of $368.50. 
 Analysts said dollar selling was heaviest in European trading, and activity moderated when dealings shifted to domestic markets, though the overall trend remained negative for the American currency.
The likelihood that German interest rates will remain firm if not rise, coupled with Germany's more buoyant economy, enhanced the mark's attractiveness, dealers said.
"We've seen the mark continue to strengthen," said John McCarthy, chief dealer at ABN-AMRO Bank N.V. "That's been the driving force here."
Ronald Holzer, chief dealer at Chicago-based Harris Trust and Savings Bank, noted that the mark's advance was felt across all major foreign currencies throughout the week.
"Continued lack of confidence has been building over the U.S. economy, and that's reflective in the dollar," he said. The currency's only gains were scored against the Canadian dollar, which has been under its own set of pressures.
The dollar was unable to draw any support from the stock market. The Dow Jones average of 30 industrial issues ended the day down about 30 points.
"The stock market was weak, and obviously we've been following that all week," Mr. McCarthy said.
Earlier in Tokyo, the dollar rose to 129.65 yen, from 129.55 yen on Thursday. Later in London, it was quoted lower at 129.45 yen. In New York, the dollar settled at 129.40 yen, down from 129.60 yen on Thursday..
In London, the British pound rose to $1.7975, from $1.7968 late Thursday. In New York, it cost $1.7945 to buy one pound, more expensive than Thursday's $1.7915.
Other late dollar rates in New York, compared with late Thursday's rates, included: 1.5835 German marks, down from 1.5988; 1.4090 Swiss francs, down from 1.4215; 5.4135 French francs, down from 5.4610; 1,199.50 Italian lire, down from 1,208.00, and 1.1390 Canadian dollars, up from 1.1366.
Silver prices also gained ground. On New York's Comex, silver bullion settled at $4.132 an ounce, up from $4.122 on Thursday. In London, silver rose to a late bid price of $4.14 an ounce from $4.10.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABO (ASX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (83%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

COMPANY: BMO HARRIS BANK NA (83%); REPUBLIC NATIONAL BANK OF ENGLEWOOD (58%); HSBC REPUBLIC BANK (SUISSE) SA (58%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (56%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); JAPAN (53%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (86%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; GOLD; PRICES CURRENCIES (96%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); 

PERSON: IAN J MCCARTHY (70%); IAN J MCCARTHY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



790 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: Discounters Closing In on New York

BYLINE: By EBEN SHAPIRO

 BODY:
Between the stores in New York City and its nearby suburbs, shoppers can find just about everything they want, sometimes in unlikely places like Boogies Diner, a strange new hybrid in Manhattan that sells both hamburgers and hip clothes.
Only recently, though, have bargain hunters in the area been able to roam the cavernous floors of national discount stores like the refurbished K Mart and Home Depot, the hardware store on steroids. While commonplace in most other parts of the nation, these growing chains, with thousands of items at bargain prices, have only recently begun big efforts to open stores within striking distance of the city, especially on Long Island. 
 For years, the high cost of real estate, heavy competition from regional chains and difficulty finding the right locations for warehouse-sized stores largely kept the national discount chains out of range of New York City.
No more. Led by the K Mart Corporation, and with Wal-Mart Stores Inc. in close pursuit, the discounters are bringing bargain-priced merchandise to the recession-battered area. They are finding more stable real estate prices and attractive sites suddenly available because of the demise or retrenchment of some local chains, like TSS Seedmans, which owned the Times Square Stores. For Wal-Mart, the growing presence in the area is less a reflection of a regional strategy than a sign of the chain's continuing drive to populate new areas of the country with its stores.
Discount stores are one of the few bright spots in the otherwise bleak retailing scene nationwide. Most notable is Wal-Mart, which recently raced past Sears, Roebuck & Company to become the nation's largest retailer. Wal-Mart regularly reports strong sales and earnings gains in sharp contrast to most other retailers. Wal-Mart is planning to open an outlet of its Sam's Wholesale Club in Medford, L.I., real estate executives on Long Island said. A Sam's spokesman would not comment.
Regional discounters like the Caldor Corporation have had stores in the New York area since the 1950's. But most of these stores lack the size and vast range of brand-name merchandise that have made the national chains so appealing to shoppers in other parts of the country.
 
Facing Competition

Ken Wallace, a spokesman for Caldor, which has 13 stores on Long Island, said the company's business had not been hurt by the increased presence of K Mart. He believes K Mart and others were drawn to Long Island by the success of Caldor. "They ignored Long Island for some time, and now it's their gold mine," he said.
In one sharp example of the shift in shopping choices, K Mart is taking over an eastern Queens building where a Bloomingdale's is closing.
"It's a prime illustration of what's happening," said Alan Hudesman, an executive with Oxford & Simpson Realty, a brokerage in Jericho, L.I.
Long Island, with a population that rivals the nation's largest metropolitan areas and dotted end to end with affluent towns, is one of the nation's most alluring retail markets.
A study of Long Island by the real estate firm Cushman & Wakefield, titled "Pocket of Prosperity," states that 45 percent of households on Long Island have annual incomes of more than $50,000, compared with 18.6 percent of families nationally. The Long Island percentage surpasses that in two other affluent suburban areas, Bergen County in New Jersey and Westchester County in New York.
 
Ripe for Bargain Hunters
 But Long Island has not escaped the current economic malaise, and the slowdown has made local shoppers, who would once have scoffed at the notion of shopping at a K Mart, more open to the stores, real estate experts say. "The timing was not right before for a K Mart or Wal-Mart," Mr. Hudesman said. Now, he said, "The Long Island consumer has been somewhat battered by the recession and is looking to spend less money."
Long Island now has four huge K Mart stores, the first of which opened last year. K Mart officials said they would open more stores on Long Island if the right real estate became available. Long Island has also drawn several discounters that have been successful by specializing, like Ikea, the Swedish furniture retailer in Hicksville, and Home Depot, which has six Long Island stores and is planning more.
Because of the enormous space requirements of the stores, discounters are not likely to open stores in Manhattan. But the giants are inching closer to Manhattan. Wal-Mart plans to open a store next year in the Dutchess County community of Fishkill, 65 miles from New York City. It will be one of 10 Wal-Mart openings planned for New York State next year. There are now four stores in the state.
 
Some Shoppers' Views

On a recent Sunday, the 100,000-plus square feet of the K Mart store in Sayville, L.I., was filled with eager shoppers.
"Even though Long Island is affluent, people are looking for bargains; I know I am," said Theresa Stevens, a stylishly dressed 26-year-old, buying diapers for her 7-month-old daughter. "Things are getting so expensive, it's nice to get a bargain here and there."
Charles and Michele D'Onofrio of Oakdale spent more than four hours in the store, waiting to have a photographer take a portrait of their 19-month-old son. The offer of 60 prints for $14.95, along with diapers that "are $4 cheaper than anywhere else," lured the family in, said Mrs. D'Onofrio, a secretary. "We're on such a tight budget," she said.
Perhaps most important, the bleak economy and a number of business failures have provided the national chains with attractive locations.
When TSS Seedmans's Times Square Stores, a local chain, went out of business, K Mart pounced on four of their locations.
K Mart's chairman, Joseph E. Antonini, said in a recent interview, "K Mart is always willing to take advantage of all good opportunistic real estate deals."
 
K Mart's New Look

K Mart, which is in the process of refurbishing its older stores around the country, is putting its best foot forward on Long Island, with newly designed stores that are brighter and have wider aisles than earlier models. There is an older K Mart on Staten Island that does not do nearly as well as the Long Island stores.
Mr. Antonini scoffs at the notion that Long Island consumers have only suddenly become more receptive to bargains. "Long Island is no different than anywhere else in America," he said, adding that the company had long been considering Long Island, but had been waiting for the right locations.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the biggest national discount retail chains have recently intensified their efforts to open stores within striking distance of New York City. Shoppers roam the floor of a K Mart store in Bohemia, L.I. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (95%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: K MART CORP; WAL-MART STORES INC WAL-MART STORES INC (95%); KMART CORP (85%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (66%); SAM'S CLUB (65%); CALDOR CORP (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: K MART CORP; WAL-MART STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: ;NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); HOME CENTERS (78%); HARDWARE STORES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%); CITIES (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); SALES FIGURES (68%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, EBEN

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



791 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Despite Stock Fall, Bonds Don't Rally

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
The slide in stock prices failed to ignite any sort of rally in the Government securities market yesterday, and prices of Treasury notes and bonds were narrowly mixed in slow trading.
Once again, prices on short-term securities remained firm while long-term bond prices fell. 
 "It's been the same trade every day this week," one Government securities trader said.
The inability of bond prices to improve during a period when stocks have been under major selling pressure and economic data have continued to be weak has been a puzzle, the trader said.
 
Worry Abut Washington

"The only explanation I have is the one that now seems to be the consensus view," the trader said. "And that is the weaker the data and the stock market get the more the market feels that Washington will panic and take some abrupt, ill-considered action."
The latest contribution to the debate over ways to stimulate the economy came from the House Republican caucus, which yesterday decided to push forward with a package that included a capital gains tax cut and other cuts to promote savings, home ownership and real estate investment.
Representative Newt Gingrich, the Georgia Republican who serves as Republican whip, said that on Tuesday the group intended to attach the package to a Resolution Trust Corporation financing bill.
Since most of these proposals have been made previously, news of the Republican initiative did not have a terribly deleterious effect in the credit markets.
 
Some Urge No Action
 However, some analysts said that at this juncture, policy makers would best serve the economy by doing nothing.
"I am not sure there is anything in particular that can be done by anybody that would have a material impact on the 1992 economy," said Norman Robertson, chief economist at the Mellon National Bank in Pittsburgh. "The Fed can't do much more by lowering short-term interest rates. And any fiscal package passed in the first half of the year would not take effect until much later. The options are very limited."
In late trading yesterday, the Treasury's 8 percent 30-year bonds of 2021 were offered at a price of 100 9/ 32, down 2/32, to yield 7.97 percent, unchanged from late Thursday, but up from 7.81 percent on Nov. 15.
Among Treasury note issues, the 7.50 percent 10-year notes were offered at 100 15/32 late yesterday, down 1/4 point, to yield 7.42 percent. And the 6 percent two-year notes were offered at 100 31/32, unchanged from late Thursday, to yield 5.46 percent.
Short-term Treasury bill rates were little changed.
Three-month bills were offered at a discount rate of 4.41 percent late yesterday, down one basis point, or one one-hundredth of a percentage point. Six-month bill rates were unchanged, at a late offered rate of 4.49 percent.
 
Corporate Market
 In the investment-grade corporate bond market, U.S. Leasing International offered $200 million of 10-year, noncallable notes through an underwriting group led by Lehman Brothers.
The 8.75 percent notes were priced at $99.149 to yield 8.88 percent, 1.45 percentage points over the prevailing yield on the Treasury's 7.50 percent 10-year notes at the time of pricing.
The securities are rated A-2 by Moody's Investors Service and A by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.
Activity in the secondary market for investment-grade corporate securities was slow, traders said. Prices of most issues dipped by 1/8 point to 1/4 point.
After a hectic week of new issues, participants in the secondary market for tax-exempt municipal bonds said that activity trailed off yesterday. Prices of most widely quoted issues were essentially unchanged, traders said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL-BANK AG (53%); NATIONAL BANK LIFE INSURANCE CO (53%); NATIONAL BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT (53%); NATIONAL BANK SECURITIES INC (53%); NATIONAL BANK FINANCIAL (53%); NATIONAL BANK FOR INDUSTRIAL & TOURISTIC DEVELOPMENT (53%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME BONDS (92%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CAUCUSES (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (52%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (51%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N NEWT GINGRICH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



792 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Slip As the Dow Loses 29.96

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD

 BODY:
Stocks were hit with another stiff wave of selling yesterday, ending a week in which the market suffered the reverberations of last Friday's 120-point plunge in the Dow Jones industrial average.
The Dow dropped 29.96 points, to 2,902.73. For the week, the Dow lost 40.47 points. Big Board volume yesterday came to 188.3 million shares, down from 196.2 million Thursday. Losing issues outpaced gainers, 1,149 to 507. 
 The weaknesses was across the board, with the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks losing 3.92, to 376.14; the Big Board composite index dropping 2.05, to 208.16; the American Stock Exchange index off 2.77, to 373.28, and the Nasdaq compsite index losing 3.87, to 526.46.
The selling began as soon as the market opened, with the Dow dropping as much as 42.94 points in early trading, fueled by several large computerized program trades.
Some traders said the selling stemmed from concern about the apparent lack of direction of economic policy in the Bush Administration and Congress.
"Today was Bush-bashing day," said Jeffrey Tabak, a principal at Miller Tabak Hirsch. "The Adminstration apparently being in total disarray is the overwhelming factor here."
Analysts said the markets lacked confidence in what Washington was proposing as ways to revive the economy, plans that include a cap on credit card interest rates and tax cuts. They said the continued sluggishness of the economy could increase the pressure on the Administration to develop new economic policies, but none appear to have been formulated. The result, traders fear, will be poorly planned policies, or none at all.
"There is increasing disillusionment with the White House and Congress over the Government's inability to address what is becoming a meaningful economic malaise," said Alan Ackerman, an executive vice president with Reich & Company.
Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer of the First Albany Corporation, said that the market failed to respond even to good news, including strong growth in the money supply figures released Thursday night.
"The confidence, whether it is in Congress or the Bush Administration, seems to be reaching a very low level," he said.
Traders also said the market closed with signs that the troubles might continue Monday. Mr. Tabak of Miller Tabak Hirsch said the Standard & Poor's 500 futures contracts, which are used in program trading, closed at a discount to the underlying stocks. "That does not portend well for Monday morning," he said.
Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading, said that the net effect of five computerized sell orders and two buy orders yesterday pushed the market down a total of 12 points.
Among the biggest declines was ARCO, which dropped 3 3/4, to 106 5/8. Standard & Poor's said it was downgrading the company's commercial paper rating because increased debt had reduced the company's liquidity.
Another oil company, Chevron Inc., was also among the day's net losers, dropping 2, to 67 1/2, after Dillon, Read & Company reduced its earnings estimate.
The Newell Company dropped 2, to 39 3/8. The industrial products maker announced it was buying the Sanford Corporation in a stock deal that will result in the issuance of 15 million new shares.
The day's biggest gainer was McDonnell Douglas, which rose 1 7/8, to 72 3/4. A Paine Webber analyst, Jack Modzelewski, upgraded his opinion of the company, saying the company's plan to sell 40 percent of its commercial airline business to the Taiwan Aerospace Corporation would be successful.
Consolidated Freightways rose 1 1/2, to 14 1/4, on news that a subsidiary had reached an agreement to provide transportation services to a division of Sears, Roebuck & Company.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: REICH & CO INC (64%); GLEACHER & CO INC (64%); NYSE MKT LLC (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STOCK PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); FUTURES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); BONDS (77%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (70%); TAX LAW (66%); EXECUTIVES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



793 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Court Ruling Gives Lift to Lenders

BYLINE: By THOMAS C. HAYES, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DALLAS, Nov. 22

 BODY:
A Federal appeals court has bolstered the rights of lenders in bankruptcy cases by preventing delinquent borrowers from adopting the increasingly common tactic of keeping control of indebted properties by investing new money into them.
Lawyers said the ruling by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit was likely to reduce the potential losses that banks, insurance companies and other big lenders might suffer from thousands of real estate bankruptcy cases now in litigation. 
 "Bankers have told me that over a five-year period, this ruling could reduce the cost of borrowed money," said Hugh Ray, a bankruptcy lawyer in Houston who has represented several banks in bankruptcy cases. He said that rising loan losses were one factor that had prevented banks' interest rates on loans from falling further than they have.
The ruling by the appellate panel in New Orleans, issued on Tuesday, was the first Federal court review of the practice among debtors in bankruptcy proceedings of winning court approval to retain a troubled property by agreeing to invest more capital in it.
Lawyers for Greystone III Joint Venture, the developer of an office building in Austin, Tex., said they would appeal the ruling to the full 15-judge appellate court in New Orleans.
In an opinion written by Judge Edith H. Jones, the panel rejected a reorganization plan approved by lower courts for Greystone.
Greystone had borrowed $8.8 million from the Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Company of Hartford to buy the building. Greystone sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1989 to prevent foreclosure by Phoenix Mutual. Greystone's debts to Phoenix amounted to $9.3 million, including the original loan plus other fees.
 
Creditors Were Split
 Greystone also owed $10,000 to various trade creditors and to tenants that had provided security deposits. It won approval for a bankruptcy reorganization plan by splitting the creditors into two groups.
The firm promised to invest $500,000 in the project and make full payment to the trade creditors. But Phoenix Mutual, which wanted to take control of the project, would have had a paper loss of approximately $4 million.
The smaller class of creditors approved the plan, a requirement for Greystone to execute a "cram-down" reorganization. Some courts have ruled since Congress passed the 1978 Bankruptcy Act that debtors could have a reorganization approved if one class of creditors backed the plan.
The appeals panel said the Greystone plan ignored the law by classifying the creditor claims differently "to gerrymander an affirmative vote in a reorganization." The opinion also emphasized that the 1978 law gave senior creditors more power than junior creditors in determining a debtor's rights to property.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO OF NEW YORK (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (94%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); LAWYERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); APPEALS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); VERDICTS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE (71%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (58%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: HAYES, THOMAS C

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



794 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS PEOPLE;
Aetna Life's President Gets Chairman's Post

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
The Aetna Life and Casualty Company announced yesterday that Ronald E. Compton would succeed James T. Lynn as chairman and chief executive when Mr. Lynn retires on March 1 at age 65.
Mr. Compton, who is 58 years old, will keep his title as president of Aetna Life, the nation's largest publicly traded insurance and financial services company, which reports assets of $91 billion. 
 Mr. Compton said he was not worried about taking over at a time when the recession has created problems in Aetna's real estate portfolio. The company told the Securities and Exchange Commission last week that it expected $1.27 billion of its real estate portfolio, or about 5 percent, to run into problems next year.
Although "prices are soft" in several of Aetna's businesses, Mr. Compton said, "You can't be successful only when the sun shines."
Mr. Compton recalled that he was a senior executive with Aetna's American Re-Insurance unit "at the depth of the casualty insurance cycle" in the early 1980's, but that he was still there, as president, to enjoy the rebound. "Maybe the economy will come banging back by next March," he said yesterday.
Mr. Compton, whose grandfather was a coal miner in Higbee, Mo., helped pay his college expenses at Northwestern University by living at home in Evanston, Ill., and taking wedding photographs. After graduating, he joined Aetna as a property casualty underwriter in 1954. According to Aetna's 1991 proxy statement, Mr. Compton's cash compensation as president was $737,885 last year; Mr. Lynn received $1,066,539 as chairman.
Mr. Compton became a senior vice president with Aetna in 1987, serving as an executive assistant and then executive vice president in the office of the chairman. He was appointed president and a director in 1988.
As chief executive, Mr. Compton said he planned to continue moves he started with Mr. Lynn to "turn Aetna into a multi-niche business." He said that Aetna would try to build up profitable units, like the Ailac mutual funds company, but that it had stopped selling personal automobile insurance where it considers business conditions unacceptable, in 28 states and the District of Columbia.
Aetna expects to stay in automobile insurance in New York and Connecticut, he said, but it will pull out of some other states. Analysts said New Jersey, where a number of insurers have said they are losing money, might be one such state.
Mr. Compton said his agenda also included plans "to continue flattening the management structure" as well as to develop employees' skills in Aetna's management-training program.
A photography buff, Mr. Compton develops his own black-and-white prints and will have a one-man show of his pictures of ballet dancers opening on Jan. 9 at the Bushnell, the Hartford performance center.
Mr. Compton, who lives in Connecticut, is also a Wagnerian opera fan and is on the boards of Carnegie Hall and the Connecticut Opera, and is chairman of Bushnell's capital fund drive. He and his wife, Nancy, like to relax on their 41-foot sailboat. They have three grown children: Erika, Barbara and Craig.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald E. Compton/Aetna Life and Casualty Company

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: AET (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (98%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (98%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: AETNA LIFE AND CASUALTY CO AETNA INC (98%); MUNICH REINSURANCE AMERICA INC (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AETNA LIFE AND CASUALTY CO SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES EXECUTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSURANCE (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PERSONAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); REINSURANCE (71%); STUDENT EXPENSES (65%); PHOTOGRAPHY (64%); BALLET (60%); DANCERS (60%); MANAGER TRAINING (60%); INSURANCE UNDERWRITING (58%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT; COMPTON, RONALD E; LYNN, JAMES T RONALD E COMPTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



795 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
Nynex plans to reduce its work force by more than 10 percent, or about 9,900 employees. The company will report a substantial fourth-quarter loss from the cost of severance pay and early-retirement benefits, plus the cost of leaving the software business in Britain and the development of real estate in the Northeast. [Page 35.] 
 The chain of events that led to the disappearance of Cascade International's chief executive was started by the Overpriced Stock Service, a California investment newsletter that grew suspicious that the company's bookkeeping was fraudulent. [35.]
The modest appearance of an Allison's Place store in Los Angeles provides no hint that it is owned by Cascade, which gave shareholders glowing accounts of its holdings. [36.]
Discount stores like K Mart and Home Depot are finally opening in the New York area, especially on Long Island, giving shoppers new places to find products at bargain prices. [35.]
Manhattan Lawyer, a four-year-old magazine, will cease publication with its December issue. [37.]
Unisys withdrew a public stock offering to sell its military division because of uncertainty in the financial markets. [37.]
 
 The Economy
Businesses in the New York City region that are waiting for a national recovery are looking in the wrong direction, several economists say. The regional downturn, they say, has less to do with the nationwide slump than with the wrenching changes being forced on industries -- like banking, broadcasting and financial services -- for which the city is a center. [1.]
California regulators voted to adopt new emission standards that would require significant changes in gasoline content. Most oil companies oppose the changes. [1.]
With the blessing of the White House, Republicans in the House tried to embarrass Democrats by offering a broad package of popular tax cuts that stand no chance of enactment just days before Congress plans to adjourn for the year. [9.]
Tucked away in the banking bill that was approved in the Senate are provisions written with specific constituents in mind. With no tax bill this year, the bank legislation has become a vehicle to attach goodies for interest groups back home. [35.]
The rights of lenders in bankruptcies have been bolstered by a Federal appeals panel ruling barring delinquent borrowers from keeping control of properties by investing in them anew. [37.]
 
 International
Liquidators of B.C.C.I. say Abu Dhabi is close to agreeing to a plan that would pay the bank's depositors worldwide 30 to 40 cents on the dollar to cover their losses. [35.]
Germany sold most of eastern Germany's only hotel chain for $1.4 billion, the biggest sale yet in the privatization effort. [37.]
 
 Markets
Stocks were hit with more selling, capping a week of reverbarations from last Friday's 120-point plunge in the Dow. The Dow dropped 29.96 points, to 2,902.73. [35.]
Prices of short-term Treasury securities were firm while long-term bond prices fell in slow trading. [38.]
The dollar was mostly lower. Gold rose around the globe, settling at $369.30 in New York. [43.]
Crude oil futures prices plunged to a four-month low on fears that the market was becoming glutted. [43.]
 
 Today's Columns
Savers, particularly retirees, are seeking higher yields now that interest rates on savings accounts, money market funds and C.D.'s are low. Jan M. Rosen: Your Money. [36.]
A Massachusetts company has patented a cockroach trap that uses a fungus to infect and devour the insect's inner organs without harming humans. Edmund L. Andrews: Patents. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KOSM (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CASCADE INTERNATIONAL INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (79%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); PRIVATIZATION (72%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (72%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); HOTEL CHAINS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (69%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (69%); TAX LAW (67%); LAWYERS (66%); BANKING LAW (64%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (64%); APPROVALS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (64%); TREASURY SECURITIES (61%); EXECUTIVES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



796 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

ANATOMY OF A RECESSION
Businesses in the New York region that are waiting for a national recovery to lift them out of their doldrums are looking in the wrong direction, several economists say. The downturn, they say, has less to do with the nationwide slump than with the wrenching changes being forced on many of the industries for which the city is a center. Banks, broadcasters, firms that specialize in accounting, law, public relations and advertising -- although these industries have already shed thousands of jobs, they may have still further to go. Page 1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
ABORTION DOCTOR WENT UNPUNISHED
State health officials said that they were aware of misconduct accusations against Dr. Abu Hayat for more than two years -- including a report that he botched an abortion, leading to a young woman's death -- but took no action against him because they did not believe they could prove he posed an "imminent danger" to public health. Page 27.
 
STATE PROBLEMS, CITY PROBLEMS
New York State's growing budget gaps will deepen New York City's fiscal problems, forcing it to cut spending even more, the Dinkins administration warned. The warning came as the administration ordered all city agencies to draft four-year targets for cutting the work force and improving productivity. The city Budget Director said the budget gap for the next fiscal year would be even greater than the $1.2 billion forecast just two weeks ago. Page 27.
 
NEW RULES FOR ROAD CONTRACTS
Acknowledging that New York City's oversight of its vast program for street reconstruction is flawed, transportation officials say they have begun making changes to insure that contractors do what they are being paid for. The changes come amid revelations that the city's Transportation Department failed to act after being told that contractors used faulty concrete and violated safety rules on three major projects. Page 27.
 
REGION
 
A FAILED SUIT, A $60,000 BILL
Saying that the Constitution had been debased and the court system had been ridiculed by their lawsuit, a Federal judge ordered a Westchester County couple to pay the $60,000 legal fees of the school system they sued because their son was not admitted to the honor society. Page 28.
 
THE C.I.A. IN THE GROVES OF ACADEME
After months of disclosures about a hidden relationship with the Central Intelligence Agency, the Rochester Institute of Technology is trying to decide whether there is room for secret intelligence research on a college campus. The debate, which began when the school's president acknowledged he had secretly worked for the C.I.A., will be taken up by the trustees today. What they decide may influence how other universities respond to the criticism that research for clandestine groups is inconsistent with academic values of open expression. Page 28.
 
TOP FLORIO AIDE TO RESIGN
After weeks of denying that it would happen, Governor Florio announced that Douglas C. Berman, his former campaign manager and a leading architect of his $2.8 billion tax increase, would resign as state treasurer. Page 28.
The Cuomo-Wachtler legal battle is back in state court. Page 28.
About New York 27
Consumer's World 48

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); ESPIONAGE (88%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); LITIGATION (85%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MISCONDUCT (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); LABOR FORCE (75%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); ABORTION (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); JUDGES (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



797 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Park Service Backs Demolition on Ellis Island

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

 BODY:
After fighting for years to save all 32 historic buildings on Ellis Island, the National Park Service has endorsed a plan to demolish 12 small, crumbling structures to provide room for a $140 million conference center with 325 hotel rooms, a restaurant and shops.
Federal officials say the buildings, abandoned and decaying since 1954, have less historic and architectural significance than any others on the island and that demolition is the only financially viable way to build the new conference center and hotel and to guarantee the rehabilitation and preservation of other derelict buildings on the southern half of the 25-acre island. 
 Others, however, including historic preservation officers in New York and New Jersey, take a dim view of the demolition plans.
Michael Adlerstein, regional chief of urban projects for the National Park Service, said: "Either we get nine-tenths of the pie or we get no pie at all. We feel we have arrived at a reasonable plan that preserves as many of the buildings as is economically possible."
 
Buildings in National Registry
 The 12 buildings, all listed on the National Registry of Historic Places, are tucked in the island's southwestern corner, which is overgrown with brush. They include an immigrant-processing building and a recreation hall built during the Depression, after immigration had slowed to a trickle. Other buildings include a furnace room, laundry, morgue, crematory and five contagious-disease wards, where ailing immigrants were quarantined.
Only a small percentage of the 12 million immigrants who passed through Ellis Island from 1892 to 1924 used these particular buildings. Nonetheless, historic preservation officers in New York and New Jersey have considerable doubts about the demolition program. Both states are entitled to comment on the proposal under the National Historic Preservation Act.
New York's preservation officer, Orin Lehman, called the project an "inappropriate use" of Ellis and refused to endorse it in a letter to the Park Service.
"This demolition, the commercialization of the island and the restriction of large areas for exclusive private use are not consistent with the national significance of this resource, and, indeed, its very reason for recognition as a national monument," Mr. Lehman said.
New Jersey's Office of Historic Preservation has appealed to the Park Service to fully explore what it called a "no-build option" and concentrate on stabilizing and rehabilitating all 30 of the buildings that are still empty and decaying. Two structures have previously been rehabilitated.
New Jersey based its appeal on the "remarkable public interest" in Ellis Island since the Museum of Immigration opened in September 1990 after a $156 million restoration. About 3 million people have visited the museum since then.
 
New Jersey Reaction
 James F. Hall, New Jersey's deputy historic preservation officer, urged the Park Service "to insure that the amount of demolition is held to an absolute minimum."
The Park Service has scheduled a public hearing on the plan on Dec. 17 on Ellis Island.
Mr. Adlerstein, of the Park Service, argued that the plan retains the facades of the buildings that were seen and used by the great bulk of immigrants when they arrived. "The Ellis Island immigration story has already been preserved in the new museum," he said.
The Park Service's willingness to accept demolition of the 12 buildings reflects a compromise between the service and a New York developer, William Hubbard, director of the Center for Housing Partnerships, which specializes in rehabilitating older housing. The service selected Mr. Hubbarb in 1984 to lease the southern half of the island and create a conference center.
Until recently, the Park Service had insisted that all the island's abandoned buildings be rehabilitated to house the center and the hotel rooms. But for eight years Mr. Hubbard has been unable to obtain financing for the project.
In the last six months, Mr. Adlerstein said, Mr. Hubbard obtained a partner, International Conferencing Resorts of America, which was willing to finance the center if the Park Service relented in its demand to save all the buildings.
"This is the best of the options," Mr. Adlerstein said, explaining that rehabilitating old buildings generally costs about $450 a square foot, compared with $150 a square foot for new construction.
The structures earmarked for demolition make up about 10 percent of the 698,000 square feet of building space on the island, he said. Under the current plan, buildings containing 383,000 square feet would be rehabilitated.
The building for the new center would total 375,000 square feet, and be no taller than existing buildings. It would have the same French Renaissance design and limestone and brick exterior as the main museum and other structures.
The center would house conference suites, 250 hotel rooms, an auditorium, a banquet hall and ballroom, a pool and a restaurant open to the public. An additional 75 hotel rooms and conference suites are to be built in rehabilitated turn-of-the-century hospital buildings. Shops and a youth hostel would be built in what was once an immigrant dormitory.
The Park Service's share of gross revenues will depend on the size of the center approved after public hearings.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The National Park Service has endorsed a plan to demolish 12 structures on Ellis Island to provide room for a $140 million conference center with hotel rooms, a restaurant and shops. The lower left of the island is the area that is set for demolition. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. 25); Michael Adlerstein, regional chief of urban projects for the National Park Service, in one of the buildings to become a youth hostel under the proposal. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 25); One of the 12 buildings on Ellis Island that would be scheduled for demolition is a crematory. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE NATIONAL PARK CONCESSIONS INC (92%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (94%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (94%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;ELLIS ISLAND (NYC) UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES NATIONAL PARKS (93%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RESTAURANTS (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



798 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Sanctions Said to Fuel Haitian Exodus by Sea

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Local and international relief workers here say that the international embargo imposed on Haiti has increased the pain of poverty in ways that are likely to lead thousands more people to set out for the United States regardless of the perils of the sea journey or the chance that they will be picked up and sent home.
In recent days, international relief organizations said that in parts of the countryside, peasants have been forced to forage for wild plants because regular food supplies have virtually disappeared. 
 "People are not starving yet, but they are starting to eat roots and things that animals usually eat," said Virginia Ubik, the local director of Project Care.
 
Using Stockpiled Supplies
 Ms. Ubik said that in the northern city of Gonaives, a region that has produced many of the boat people in the past, her organization was feeding as many 8,000 people a day from supplies that were stockpiled here before the coup that overthrew Haiti's elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, on Sept. 30.
With diplomats estimating that as much as a third of the capital's population of 1.2 million had fled to the countryside, Ms. Ubik said that many rural homes now housed 15 or more people living on the same amount of food that four or five ate before the crisis.
At the Bon Repos repatriation camp several miles to the north of the capital, one of the country's only refugee centers, relief workers said they were still overwhelmed from a previous flood of Haitians who were expelled earlier this year from the Dominican Republic.
"There is no possible way for us to handle more people here," said Sister Maureen Fuelkell, director of the center. Since the coup, she said, her camp had only managed to feed and care for the 1,548 people it currently houses through the donations of a handful of international charities.
More than 17,000 Haitians expelled from the Dominican Republic have passed through the camp since June, Sister Fuelkell said.
In a statement broadcast over the Voice of America today, Father Aristide urged Haitians contemplating an attempt to reach Florida to "stay at home rather than ending up in the jaws of sharks."
But like others, Sister Fuelkell said she expected the tide of Haitian refugees to increase dramatically in the coming weeks unless the political situation was stabilized and relief operations could be set up in the countryside, where most of the people fleeing the country have come from.
The international embargo has stopped the sale of gasoline, which in turn has virtually stopped public transport here and blocked deliveries of goods. Moreover, businesses continue to lay off office workers, swelling the already large numbers of poor people.
 
'Afraid to Stay'
 "You could have a million people trying to leave Haiti unless something is done soon," said Sister Fuelkell. "Most of the people in the countryside are trying to get out for economic reasons of course. But there has been a lot of repression too. Many have gone because they were too afraid to stay."
In the normally congested capital, Port-au-Prince, the streets are now empty most of the day, except for brief bursts of activity in the morning and late afternoon.
Since gas stations shut down for lack of fuel last week, there have been no buses, and those with private cars husband their gasoline for emergencies. Electrical generation in the capital has also become more erratic, and diplomats say that a lack of oil might force a total blackout and interruption of telephone service within two weeks.
At the downtown offices of the Haitian Red Cross, which has been the agency charged with receiving returning Haitians since a repatriation agreement was signed with the United States 10 years ago, officials said they did not have the wherewithal to do anything more than simply distribute $10 apiece to the 510 boat people dropped off here earlier this week by the Coast Guard.
"I have no gasoline for my own car," said the director, Dr. William Fougere. "We have no food to give them. We don't even have fuel for our generators to operate our blood banks."
Asked if he had been able to assess whether the returned Haitians had faced any persecution by soldiers or the police, Dr. Fougere said: "I have no idea. We cannot even reach the suburbs."
Despite the markedly increased hardships it has brought, here in the capital, support for the embargo, which was imposed to help return Father Aristide to power, remains strong among many Haitians.
Sitting under the tin awning of a barren shop in one of this city's poorest neighborhoods, a clutch of young Haitian men urged foreign nations to maintain the embargo as a means of punishing the army, even as some of them contemplated fleeing the country, in part because of the difficulties it has brought.
"Here in Cite Soleil, there are arrests every day by the army, there are shootings and there are disappearances," said Joel, a 26-year-old unemployed man. "An embargo is the only weapon we have."
Although Joel pledged to stay in the country and "resist until the final victory" over the army and provisional Government that replaced Father Aristide, several of his friends said they were awaiting the first opportunity to get out of the country.
"We are all interested in leaving," said Harold, a 19-year-old. "There is so much misery here. We are all prisoners."
 
 
 
246 FLEEING HAITI ARE RESCUED
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 (Special to The New York Times) -- The Coast Guard picked up 246 Haitian refugees packed into a 30-foot sailboat in the Windward Passage between Haiti and Cuba today. It was the largest single group of fleeing Haitians to be intercepted since the Sept. 30 military coup that overthrew the Government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
"I just can't imagine how they got that many people on that boat," a Coast Guard official said in Miami.
The Coast Guard said the rescue brought the total number of Haitians intercepted at sea in the last few weeks to 3,138.
As news of the rescue reached Miami, there were also reports of a rising confirmed death toll in a shipwreck of Haitian refugees on Tuesday in stormy weather off Cuba. Cuban radio reported today that 59 more bodies had been found.
On Wednesday and Thursday, 16 bodies washed ashore near Cape Maisi, Cuba's easternmost point. An additional 60 people are missing and presumed dead, which would bring the overall count to 135.
Since a Federal court in Miami ruled Tuesday that no more Haitians should be forcibly returned to the island pending a hearing on Nov. 27, the refugees are being held at the United States Navy base at Guantanamo, Cuba, on Coast Guard cutters at sea or in temporary centers in Honduras and Venezuela.Today 100 more Haitians were flown to Venezuela, bringing the total in the two countries to about 450.
An American official said today that about 100 Haitians had been given the right to apply for asylum in the United States, and would be allowed to come to Miami.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The economic embargo imposed against Haiti by the Organization of American States has stopped the sale of gasoline, which in turn has virtually stopped public transport and blocked deliveries of goods. A worker in Port-au-Prince hauled a load of charcoal to market down a street void of traffic. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICA TODAY (52%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%); ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;HAITI HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES; REFUGEES AND EXPATRIATES; FOOD; FOREIGN AID; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); REFUGEES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); COUPS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); STARVATION (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); TRENDS (73%); FARM LABOR (72%); CHARITIES (72%); POLITICS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POPULATION SIZE (57%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



799 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Roundup;
Two Financing Bills Stall Lawmakers

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Congress moved toward clearing a few of its pre-adjournment problems today, but made no visible progress on two of the toughest: financing for the savings and loan bailout and for the nearly insolvent bank insurance fund.
House and Senate conferees on the transportation bill believed they had settled their biggest dispute, how to allocate money among the states, and there was steady progress on appropriations bills. But conferees on crime legislation held only informal meetings, and no progress was made on settling disputes over trade provisions or the extended unemployment benefits measure. 
 No floor action is expected before next week on financing the Resolution Trust Corporation, which handles the savings and loans bailout. Banking legislation, passed by both houses in very different forms, appears too complicated a problem even to be sent to a conference committee until Congressional leaders and the Administration devise a plan they think can be passed in the House, which killed two earlier versions of the bill.
 
Transportation
 Early today, House and Senate conferees on the transportation bill reached a tentative agreement on the fundamental issue that has divided them: how to share $151 billion among the states over six years.
Lawmakers from both chambers appeared confident today, for the first time, that they would work out a bill before their planned adjournment for Thanksgiving.
The apportionment formula, designed to satisfy the conflicting demands of crucial state delegations in each house, is so complex that members and aides said they could not fully explain it today. Aides were meeting tonight to refine the formula and calculate how much money it would allot to each state. The lawmakers will meet Saturday morning to see if the results satisfy them.
Once they agree, Congressional aides said, it should be easy to adopt the Senate's overall structure for the bill. That would give great discretion to state and local governments in choosing how to spend the money.
 
Medicaid
 The Senate moved toward joining the House in an effort to upset Administration efforts to restrict the ability of states to help finance Medicaid, the health program for 27 million low-income Americans, with money collected from hospitals. The Senate Finance Committee approved legislation that would delay enforcement of the Administration rules until April 1.
Earlier this week the White House and the National Governors Association negotiated a tentative agreement on the issue, but Senator Lloyd Bentsen, the Texas Democrat who is chairman of the Finance Committee, and other Senators said today that the agreement needed further refinement.
The House has voted, 348 to 71, to block the rules until next Sept. 30.
Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who is chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, objects to the agreement negotiated between the White House and the governors because it would impose numerical limits on the proportion of Medicaid that could be paid for by state taxes on hospitals and nursing homes.
 
Spending
 The House passed, by a vote of 364 to 58, and sent to the Senate a $205 billion spending bill for labor, health and education programs. The legislation provides money for everything from cancer research to Federal aid to poor school districts.
The measure was almost identical to the bill vetoed by President Bush earlier this week. But the exception was crucial. This version does not prohibit the Administration from enforcing regulations that bar federally financed family planning clinics from discussing abortion with pregnant patients. Mr. Bush cited that provision as the reason for his veto, which opponents failed to override on Tuesday.
The Senate approved a $9.5 billion emergency spending bill that includes money for the remaining costs of the Persian Gulf war, for the Federal Emergency Management Agency and for children's aid programs. The largest amount, more than $3.8 billion, is for expenses related to the war.
The measure, which passed by a vote of 75 to 17, is similar to a bill that passed the House last month. The Senate defied a White House veto threat by adding an amendment allowing women in the military to have abortions on overseas bases.
 
Pentagon Programs
 The Senate completed Congressional action on a $291 billion Pentagon program bill. The measure would all but eliminate future construction of B-2 Stealth bombers but would continue spending for an anti-missile defense system.
Opposition to the anti-missile system produced most of the 15 votes against the bill. Seventy-nine Senators voted for the bill, and it was sent to the President for his signature.

 
INQUIRY ON HOSTAGE DEAL
 WASHINGTON, Nov. 22 (AP) -- Senate Republicans tonight blocked money for an inquiry into allegations that the 1980 Reagan-Bush campaign made a deal with Iran to delay release of American hostages until after the election.
On a largely party line vote of 51 to 43, Democrats failed to get the 60 votes needed to shut off a Republican filibuster against the measure, which would have set aside $600,000 for the inquiry. As a result, the investigation will be sharply curtailed if not killed. A separate House inquiry is proceeding.
Since the 1980 election, rumors have persisted that the Republicans conspired with Iran head off an "October Surprise" that would free the 52 American hostages and salvage Jimmy Carter's re-election chances.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); RESOLUTION TRUST CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BANKS AND BANKING; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS; FEDERAL AID (US); STATES (US); TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ABORTION; MEDICAID; HOSPITALS ; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; STEALTH AIRCRAFT; SPACE WEAPONS (STAR WARS); MILITARY AIRCRAFT MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BANKING LAW (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); CRIMINAL LAW (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); SPACE WEAPONS (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); NURSING HOMES (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); GOVERNORS (57%); 

PERSON: CLYMER, ADAM HENRY WAXMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991



800 of 1043 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1991 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: November 23, 1991

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Boston War Zone Becomes Public Housing Dream

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BOSTON, Nov. 22

 BODY:
Only five years ago, Ruby Jaundoo lived in one of the country's most dilapidated and dangerous public housing projects. Likened by city residents to a war zone, the Columbia Point apartments sat secluded on a peninsula jutting into Boston Harbor; even ambulance crews and firefighters would not come to the neighborhood without a police escort.
"Nobody wanted to come out here," Ms. Jaundoo said. "The police wouldn't patrol. The gangs were infesting our housing. I was fearful and I'd had enough." 
 Ms. Jaundoo and the other women who dominated Columbia Point's tenants' board began negotiating in the late 1970's with developers who coveted the project's 51 acres, a strip of waterfront property that shares views of the harbor with the nearby John F. Kennedy Library.
 
Fears of Being Driven Out
 "We knew this land was becoming prime property and we were an eyesore," said Ms. Jaundoo. "We were afraid that we would be driven out."
Today the site, renamed Harbor Point to shed bad memories, is a sprawl of manicured lawns surrounding tennis courts, town houses and mid-rise apartment buildings where residents, including Ms. Jaundoo and most of her original neighbors, represent a broad range of races, ethnic backgrounds and incomes.
While mixed-income developments have been successful on a smaller scale, Harbor Point is the nation's first effort to transform a large Federal project by recruiting middle- and higher-income residents, government officials say. State and local authorities are hoping Harbor Point will be a model for economic and racial integration of public housing elsewhere.
But the transition has not been painless. Fractious tenant disputes are only now easing, and a surprise investment from the Chevron Oil Company in August rescued Harbor Point from the brink of bankruptcy.
When Catherine D'Vileskis moved into Harbor Point three years ago, the first white person on her block, she was greeted by a young Hispanic boy who pointed at her and said, "It's a whitey!" Now "that family has been my neighbors for years," she said, adding, "The shock is gone."
But feelings of mistrust still linger among tenants. Harbor Point had been home to black and Hispanic low-income Bostonians since it first opened in 1954. The imposing yellow brick buildings, 30 seven-story structures built to house 1,504 impoverished families families, were a source of great pride in Boston. Yet by the 1970's, the buildings had fallen victim to neglect and blight, and were abandoned by all but 356 families.
Conceding failure, the Boston Housing Authority turned over the site to private developers in 1986 with the ambitious goal of renovating the neighborhood without driving out low-income residents. The 99-year lease names two owners: the tenants' elected board and a partnership of developers led by the firm of Corcoran, Mullins, Jennison of Braintree, Mass.
The development now has 1,283 units, some refurbished and others built new. The lease requires that 400 of them be set aside for residents who receive rent subsidies, while the rest command market rates. A two-bedroom apartment now goes for $825 a month.
To attract wealthier tenants, the developers advertised the site's proximity to downtown Boston and amenities in the development, including a fitness club, two swimming pools and a child-care center. The developers also hired a 24-hour security force to help ease fears about crime.
Nearly all the low-income units are now occupied, but 26 families who lived in Columbia Point before the arrival of the private developers have since left, many evicted for drug dealing, nonpayment of rent or vandalism.
"There was a bad element and there still is," said Joe Corcoran, who heads the development firm. "We have rooted out 25 families that were really bad, but there are five more to go."
Fears that the developers are trying to rid the site of all low-income residents have emerged among tenants who complain of harassment by the 25-member security force. Many longtime residents have chafed at strict rules enacted by the tenant board. Residents are asked to move along if they loiter on streets at night. Young children must be inside by 7:30 P.M. in the school year, and teen-agers by 10:30. No pets are allowed and the management checks apartments to enforce housekeeping rules.
Ms. Jaundoo acknowledged that some security guards had been dismissed for mistreating residents, but said: "People have to pay their rent on time, take care of their children and respect other people's rights. Those rules are true at any housing project, but we enforce them."
Many residents describe the 12-member tenants' board, a mix of low-income and wealthier residents who hold quarterly open meetings to air disputes, as the glue that holds the community together. "The security force is only acting on what the tenants themselves have enacted," said Onjada Haggard, a resident.
To help blur the color line between low- and higher-income residents, an aggressive marketing effort has attracted black, Asian and Hispanic professionals and a small number of white low-income renters. Many of the market-rate renters are young professionals who work nearby in Boston's financial district.
Maureen Coleman, a manager at Scudder, Stevens & Clark, a mutual fund company in Boston, moved to Harbor Point in 1988. "I like it here," she said. "It's clean and it feels safe. But if you grew up in a neighborhood where everyone looks just like you, this isn't the place for you."
Despite improvements in tenant relations, Harbor Point was still struggling until recently to stay afloat financially. Boston's rental real estate market began to plummet soon after Harbor Point opened in 1988. Trying to attract affluent renters as the recession deepened, the developers slashed rents by 35 percent. Deficits and costly loans finally pushed Harbor Point close to bankruptcy this summer.
Help arrived in August, when Chevron announced it would invest $34 million over seven years to take advantage of $38 million in low-income housing tax credits and depreciation. The credits were established by Congress in 1986 to encourage private investment in low-income housing.
 
Rescue of Harbor Point
 The deal saved Harbor Point from defaulting on some of its $175 million in state and Federal loans. Mr. Corcoran said he believed the cash infusion would cover any future deficits.
At Chevron, company officials are quick to reassure shareholders that they are not operating out of pure altruism. "Our primary objective is to generate income for the company," said Nancy Carroll, a spokeswoman. "But the fact that it's a social investment doesn't hurt."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Columbia Point apartments, situated on a peninsula in Boston Harbor, was once likened to a war zone. Redeveloped, it was renamed Harbor Point to shed the memory of the time when even ambulance crews and firefighters would not respond without a police escort. "We knew this land was becoming prime property and we were an eyesore," said Ruby Jaundoo, left, a member of the Columbia Point's tenants' board. Catherine D'Vileskis, right, moved into Harbor Point three years ago, the first white person on her block. (Photographs by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)
 
Map of Massachusetts showing location of Harbor Point

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;BOSTON (MASS); HARBOR POINT (BOSTON) UNITED STATES (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (98%); BOSTON, MA, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; RACIAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION PUBLIC HOUSING (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); RACE & RACISM (87%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); 

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); JOHN F KENNEDY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1991

 
