

601 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Study on H.M.O.'s Targets the State 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTINE WOODSIDE 

 BODY:
WHILE health maintenance organization plans are starting to lose favor around the United States, they are booming in New Haven and Meriden, so much so that last year that region had a higher percentage of H.M.O. patients than any other metropolitan area in the country, according to a study released last week.
 Between July 1999 and July 2000, H.M.O. plans across the United States lost 700,000 people. But in the New Haven-Meriden area, H.M.O. plans gained 55,533 people during that period, continuing a four-year rise. 
 More than 73 percent of the population in New Haven and Meriden, or 397,651 enrollees out of 542,474 people who live there, were patients in 1 of 10 H.M.O. plans last year. 
The statistics were part of a new report by InterStudy Publications of St. Paul. The company analyzes health insurance data from surveys and state records and sells its reports to businesses that track industry changes, Caryn Mohr, a research specialist at InterStudy, said.
InterStudy did not analyze the reason for the H.M.O. boom in New Haven and Meriden. But the increase coincided with an economic boom there, especially in research and biotechnology companies.
From 1996 to 2000, the labor force grew by 8 percent after steady losses in the early 1990's. In 2000 alone, the labor force in the New Haven-Meriden area grew 4.2 percent compared with a national growth of 1.4 percent that year.
"That corridor from Meriden to New Haven has really become the biotech cradle in Connecticut," said Keith Stover, a lobbyist for the Connecticut Association of Health Plans. "They've experienced some extraordinary growth in employment."
Mr. Stover said H.M.O.'s are popular in Connecticut because health care here is expensive. Prescription drugs and hospital care are the costliest elements, he said.
Mr. Stover said another factor is that in 1997 the state passed a law allowing H.M.O. patients to take grievances to outside arbiters at the state government's expense. The arbiters can order an H.M.O. to pay even if the H.M.O. had initially refused.
In a survey about patients' attitudes, the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation found that people generally complain about H.M.O.'s although they like their own H.M.O. plans. Mr. Stover said his experience reinforced that conclusion.
"The rhetoric around managed care and H.M.O.'s is sort of like the rhetoric around Congress," Mr. Stover said. "Everybody hates Congress and loves their congressman. People generally like their H.M.O.'s, but think managed care, generally, really stinks."
The largest H.M.O. company in Connecticut is Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield, which had 58 percent of the H.M.O. patients in New Haven and Meriden as of last July, InterStudy said. In second place was Physicians Health Services of Connecticut with 22 percent, Ms. Mohr said.
Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield has grown tremendously in two years, from 90,079 H.M.O. enrollees in New Haven and Meriden on July 1, 1997 to 230,590 on July 1, 2000. Statewide, Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Shield has more than 444,000 H.M.O. customers and nearly 1.2 million customers for all of its plans, said Carol Pompano, public relations manager.
Ms. Pompano said there are several reasons for the growth, including that about 60,000 of the company's H.M.O. customers are state employees (some of whom work in Meriden and New Haven), and that small businesses like the company's plans.
The other companies providing H.M.O. plans for the New Haven-Meriden area are MedSpan Health Options, HealthChoice of Connecticut, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, ConnectiCare Inc., CIGNA HealthCare of Connecticut, Aetna U.S. Healthcare of Connecticut, and Prudential HealthCare H.M.O., a member company of Aetna U.S. Healthcare.
Total H.M.O. enrollment in the northeast dropped by almost 2 percent last year while Meriden and New Haven's grew by about 8 percent. In 1997, H.M.O. patients in the New Haven-Meriden area made up 39 percent of the population. In 1998 the percentage rose to 58. Then in 1999 the percentage was more than 65. It is one of few urban regions in the northeast where H.M.O. enrollments are so high. Most H.M.O. strongholds are in California.
The next-highest concentration of H.M.O. patients is in Sacramento, Calif., where 1,169,129 people, nearly 72 percent of the population, use H.M.O.'s. Close behind are three more California urban areas: Oakland, San Francisco, and the Vallejo-Fairfield-Napa area. Between 70 and 71 percent of the population use H.M.O.'s in these areas.
Other areas where many people chose H.M.O. plans included Jackson, Tenn., and Rochester, both with just under 70 percent, the Buffalo-Niagara Falls area in New York with just under 65 percent. In ninth place was Madison, Wis., with over 64 percent, and 10th was the Stockton-Lodi area in California with nearly 62 percent.
The Worcester, Mass. area, which includes parts of north-central Connecticut, came in 14th with an H.M.O. concentration rate of nearly 59 percent. The Fitchburg-Leominster area in Massachusetts was 15th with 57 and a half percent.
Nationally, H.M.O. patients in urban areas accounted for just more than 32 percent of the general urban population, or nearly 73 million H.M.O. patients out of an urban population of 225 million. That rate decreased by 1.4 percent from what it was between 1998 and 1999, InterStudy said.
About 80 million people use H.M.O.'s nationwide. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (95%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); INSURANCE (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (62%); LEGISLATION (61%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE 

COMPANY: ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (60%); ANTHEM BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD OF OHIO (60%); DECISION RESOURCES GROUP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERSTUDY PUBLICATIONS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (60%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: WOODSIDE, CHRISTINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW HAVEN (CONN); MERIDEN (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



602 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Island's Economy Still Hums Along

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
LLOYD STAFFING of Melville is currently screening applicants to fill three openings for controllers at Long Island companies, at salaries ranging from $65,000 to $145,000. Merrill Banks, Lloyd's president, said his recruiters were being highly selective. 
 "If a company is looking for a vice president of finance, they want to see a vice president of finance at a company more or less the same size as theirs," Mr. Banks said. "They don't want to take a qualified assistant vice president. They're not thinking out of the box these days." 
 Spooked by the possibility that today's hire could become tomorrow's layoff, Long Island companies are more cautious in their hiring, Mr. Banks said. After spending most of the 90's complaining that labor shortages were impeding growth, many are now postponing hiring decisions. 
"Clients are saying they're doing well, but still they are both more cautious and less flexible in hiring," Mr. Banks said. "The talk in the marketplace is about being prepared should things get worse."
So Lloyd Staffing, which specializes in filling jobs in sales, information technology, biotechnology, office services, accounting and finance, has fewer positions to fill. "Last year, we did over 400 placements by the end of May," Mr. Banks said. "This year at the same time, we were at 350."
As the year's midway point approaches, the Long Island economy seems to be lagging behind last year's pace, although it is still outpacing the national economy. "If we see a slowing of the economy on Long Island, it is a moderate slowing," said Dr. Pearl Kamer, the chief economist at the Long Island Association, the regional chamber of commerce.
In May, the unemployment rate was 2.5 percent in Nassau County and 2.7 percent in Suffolk, about the same as last year. By comparison, the rate was 4.0 percent in New York State and 4.1 percent in the United States at large. 
"Unemployment currently is about as low as it can get," Dr. Kamer said, referring to the Long Island figures. "We haven't had major layoffs, and in fact we have had a net gain in jobs. My guess is that the national economy will start to recover in the first quarter of next year. The local economy may not get the chance to slow down before the national economy recovers."
In other words, the national economy will pick up before Long Island slows down, thus averting a regional slowdown. 
According to State Labor Department figures, Nassau and Suffolk added 21,500 jobs in the 12 months ending in May, a 1.8 percent increase. All but 200 of the new jobs were in the service sector. "We have diversified from a manufacturing economy to one based on a broad array of services," Dr. Kamer said. "The new jobs being produced are high-wage jobs. We have diversified very well, and this is the strength of today's economy."
Nevertheless, the biggest gains in the service sector came in retailing, traditionally a low-paying field. Here, 4,800 jobs were added, many of them at garden centers. The next-largest gains came in education, which added 3,900 jobs. Social-service jobs grew by 2,500; transportation and public utilities by 1,800. 
The biggest contraction came in the government sector. Federal jobs on Long Island shrank by 2,800, mostly census workers. State jobs grew by 400 and local government jobs by 3,300, mostly teachers.
Manufacturing lost 2,100 jobs, more than half of them in equipment manufacturing, continuing a trend that has been going on for decades. Printing and publishing lost about 600 jobs.
While the regional economy continues to hum along by most economic indicators, optimism is tempered by the realities of the flagging national economy, weakness in major capital markets and increased energy costs. "When energy prices go up, it affects us materially on Long Island," said Dr. Irwin L. Kellner, the chief economist at North Fork Bancorp in Melville.
Exactly how strong Long Island's economy is has become something of a political issue. State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, a candidate for the Democratic gubernatorial nomination, said in a report released June 13 that Governor Pataki was ignoring high energy and housing costs. But earlier this month when the governor visited Long Island, he introduced new mortgage and energy programs. Mr. Pataki, who will probably run for a third term, denied Mr. McCall's charges through a spokesman. 
Pointing to other areas of concern, Dr. Kellner cited Conference Board statistics for the New York metropolitan region that showed a drop in help-wanted advertising of 34.6 percent during the 12-month period ending in April.
"Businesses are under severe pressure to cut costs any way they can, because they cannot pass along energy-cost increases," he said. "We have to keep our fingers crossed that business doesn't push the panic button and start another round of layoffs." 
The Long Island Association, which contends that an expanding labor force is essential to ensuring long-term regional economic growth, is playing down the likelihood of layoffs. "Companies have spent a lot of money building their labor force during times when labor has been tight," Dr. Kamer said. "They made a huge investment in human capital, and they are looking for ways to maintain that investment."
In fact, there are signs hiring is rebounding. At Sigma Staffing in Melville, hiring is up by as much as 25 percent in the second quarter, said Thea Linker, the president. "Our clients are telling us we should recruit more because they say they are going to hire more," she said. 
Dr. Kamer said that steady employment, accumulated stock-market gains and widespread consumer confidence in the region were keeping the housing market strong. Prices remain stable or are rising slightly in most communities, she said, and she expects that the housing market will continue to be buoyed during the second half of the year by the sale of starter houses. 
Dorothy Herman, an owner of Prudential Long Island Realty in Huntington, said that sales had been brisk. Several weeks ago, she said, she put her father's house in Franklin Square on the market and received six offers within days.
"Last year, people were bidding above the asking price," Ms. Herman said. "Not this year. But except for the East End, the housing market is strong. We are getting more listings. Last month was the strongest month in terms of revenue since I opened the company," in 1989.
On the commercial side, the office vacancy rate is edging up, reflecting both the volume of new space coming onto the market -- more than 1.5 million square feet since the economic expansion began in 1992. In the first quarter of this year, the overall office vacancy rate on Long Island was 9.3 percent, according to Cushman & Wakefield. A year ago during the same period, it was 8.8 percent.
While demand remains strong for large chunks of office space, beginning at 500,000 square feet, smaller configurations, the kind generally rented by small and midsize companies, are becoming harder for landlords to lease. 
Or as David Pennetta, a partner in Oxford & Simpson Realty in Jericho, put it, "I've had a little more time to improve my golf game." 
Having grown used to the idea that the region couldn't put up new office space fast enough to meet demand, some real estate brokers and leasing agents are troubled by the symbolism of empty space. For example, in Great River, nearly a third of the Long Island Technology Center, ostensibly ground zero in the region's information technology boom, is vacant. 
So caution prevails. Apart from Sigma, other staffing companies say that employers are cutting back on part-time and temporary workers. At Thisco in Woodbury, which finances the payrolls for more than 200 staffing companies across the country, Marty Orenstein, Thisco's director, said that on Long Island, staffing company payrolls were down by 15 to 40 percent. 
Medical office support is down the least, Mr. Orenstein said, and "information technology is down the most." 
Bill Heather, the vice president for Long Island at Right Management Consultants, a Philadelphia company that provides employer-financed outplacement services for people who have lost their jobs, said that searches were taking longer these days: two weeks longer for middle-management positions, three or four weeks for senior management.
"When companies reduce the number of their employees, our business improves," said Mr. Heather, who has an office in Melville. "And lately, business has been good."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The economy in brief: When Dorothy Herman, above, put this Franklin Square house on the market for her father, Joseph Dambrosio, she got six offers. At Sigma Staffing in Melville, right, hiring is up 25 percent in the second quarter. (Photographs by Ed Betz for The New York Times)(pg. 5) Chart: "Where the Jobs Are"Nassau and Suffolk Counties had moderate gains in nonagriculturaljobs during the last year. IN THOUSANDSTotal nonfarm employmentMAY 2000: 1,223.7MAY 2001: 1,245.2PCT. CHG.: + 1.8 IN THOUSANDSServicesMAY 2000: 400.7MAY 2001: 413.8PCT. CHG.: +3.3 IN THOUSANDSWholesale and retailMAY 2000: 308.7MAY 2001: 314.2PCT. CHG.: +1.8 IN THOUSANDSGovernmentMAY 2000: 197.7MAY 2001: 198.6PCT. CHG.: +0.5 IN THOUSANDSManufacturingMAY 2000: 111.6MAY 2001: 109.5PCT. CHG.: -1.9 IN THOUSANDSFinance, insurance and real estateMAY 2000: 84.4MAY 2001: 84.4PCT. CHG.: 0.0 IN THOUSANDSTransportation and public utilitiesMAY 2000: 57.3MAY 2001: 59.1PCT. CHG.: +3.1 (Source: New York Department of Labor)(pg. 5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); LABOR SHORTAGES (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); ACCOUNTING (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



603 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Impending Lease Reignites Talk of a Rte. 110 Hub at Airport 

BYLINE:  By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
THE proposed site of a transportation hub that might be built around the old rail station at Republic Airport in East Farmingdale is about to be leased, and that has lighted a fire under those seeking to ease traffic congestion along Route 110 at the Nassau-Suffolk border.
 News of the planned lease was announced at a meeting June 15 of Action 110 Long Island. The chairman of the group, Sheldon R. Sackstein, said immediately that he would fight the move. Last week, officials from the Towns of Huntington and Babylon, together with the Long Island Association, joined the chorus. 
 "We have been talking about a number of issues for some time now, but the possibility that this site would be lost forever spurred the reaction we've seen in the last few days," said Steven Bellone, a Babylon councilman. He and another Babylon councilman, Wayne R. Horsley, said there was general agreement that the Long Island Rail Road station at Republic Airport -- a station closed in 1986 -- should be reopened and the site developed into a major transportation hub. 
Mr. Bellone said that until the director of Republic Airport, Hugh D. Jones, confirmed plans to lease the station property at the Action 110 meeting, he had "only heard rumblings" about it. 
"He created the impression that this deal was already wrapped up," Mr. Bellone said. "But we're now speaking with state leaders in Albany about this, and I suspect that someone at the Department of Transportation is going to put the brakes on this and say, 'We should take a look at it.' "
At the meeting, Mr. Jones noted that the train station, which is on Conklin Street just east of Route 110, was part of the 530-acre Republic Airport complex. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the L.I.R.R.'s parent, acquired it in 1969 from the Fairchild Engine Manufacturing Company after it closed its operations there. 
Ownership of the complex was transferred to the state Department of Transportation in April 1983, and Mr. Jones said there were now plans to lease the station property to a private developer, which plans to build stores there.
"It is irresponsible of D.O.T. to not have looked at the efficiencies that could have been made to traffic" had the station been used as a transportation hub, Mr. Sackstein told him. "Why shouldn't people who want to do inter-island commuting have a train station at one of the most populated sections of Long Island?"
Mr. Sackstein said he planned to enlist the support of Governor Pataki and Senator Charles E. Schumer to convince the Department of Transportation not to lease the property. Just a few minutes earlier, Mr. Schumer, the New York Democrat, had addressed the group and announced his conditional support for reopening the train station.
"The idea of an additional railroad station at Republic makes a great deal of sense," he said, but he added that such a project would need community support.
Mr. Schumer, who has a senatorial office at 145 Pinelawn Road, just off Route 110, said there was no chance of getting federal financing this year to relieve traffic congestion on Route 110. But he said federal transportation money would be available in 2003 and that he would like the group to have a budget proposal to him by January for a comprehensive plan for Route 110.
"If the community is truly behind it, I will go to bat for you," he said. 
But Mr. Jones said in an interview after the meeting that the lease was scheduled to be signed at the end of the month. He said Mairoll Inc., a part of the Fairchild Corporation, would lease 12.5 acres of the former train station property.
Mairoll, which owns a shopping center, Airport Plaza, on a 91-acre parcel across the street from the station, would like to put up two more buildings totaling 112,000 square feet on the station property, Mr. Jones said. The rest of the 12.5 acres would be set aside for parking.
A "conceptual agreement was reached" last May to lease the property, he said. He would not say how much Mairoll had agreed to pay. 
In a separate deal, Mairoll would sell the state 11.3 acres of its Airport Plaza property that is now used for a parking lot at the eastern end of the site, abutting Jillian's Entertainment Inc. Mr. Jones said the land was needed to provide a runway safety area.
In 1992, a USAir flight "went off the runway at La Guardia and into the bay," Mr. Jones said. "If there had been an adequate runway safety area," he added, "it would not have gone into the water. So the Federal Aviation Administration said airports need safety areas at the end of their runways. When we started doing a master plan for the airport in 1997, the F.A.A. asked where our runway safety area was."
He said that after the Fairchild Corporation straightened out Conklin Street in 1999, that made it possible for the airport to use a strip 1,000 feet long and 500 feet wide as a safety area. 
The federal government agreed to give the state a total of $14.3 million to buy the land and prepare the site. At the end of the last fiscal year, Congress appropriated $4.355 million for the transaction and added another $5 million on June 1. Mr. Jones said that when the next fiscal year begins Oct. 1, he hoped that Congress would appropriate the remainder of the money.
As part of the transaction, the Town of Babylon and the Farmingdale school district would get payments in lieu of taxes from Mairoll for the leased property. Those payments would total $300,000 to $350,000 annually, Mr. Jones said.
Mr. Bellone, the councilman, took issue with Mairoll's plans for more stores, arguing that they would only compound Route 110's traffic problems. He asked how many jobs might be lost if traffic congestion was not eased. 
"Companies would not want to move onto the Route 110 corridor," he said, and some already there might move out. 
"If we don't address the traffic problem quickly, we're going to lose a lot more revenue than that," Mr. Bellone said.
Gary Lewi, a spokesman for Republic Airport, said that ultimately it would be up to the Long Island Rail Road to decide if it wants to reopen the airport station. He pointed out that the railroad has another station in Farmingdale that is only a mile away and questioned whether it would be cost-effective to reopen the one at the airport. 
Nick LaRocco, a railroad spokesman, said the Republic Airport station was a small one that was created to serve the employees of Fairchild Republic. He said Ken Bauer, the railroad's president, was examining the feasibility of reopening it. "If it makes sense to have a station there, it will happen," he said.
The idea of placing a similar transportation hub at the Huntington railroad station at the north end of Route 110 was proposed last week by Huntington Town Councilman Mark A. Cuthbertson. 
"It is already a transportation hub, but we could offer more amenities to allow commuting into Melville," Mr. Cuthbertson said. "This comes at an opportune time for us because we are working on revitalization plans for Huntington Station, and as we do that, we want them to fit into the regional plans."
The Towns of Huntington and Babylon formed the Route 110 Redevelopment Corporation three years ago to deal with regional issues, particularly economic development, along the Route 110 corridor. 
"It quickly became apparent that transportation and traffic issues were the No. 1 challenge that needs to be met to sustain economic growth along the corridor," Mr. Cuthbertson said.

GRAPHIC: Map of Route 110 highlighting the transit hubs: Transit hubs at ends of this stretch of Rte. 110 could ease congestion. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRAINS (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (60%) TRANSPORTATION; RENTING AND LEASING; LAND USE POLICIES 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%) LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION; TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT (NYS); ACTION 110 LONG ISLAND (ORGN) 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (50%) AIN, STEWART 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



604 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/Haverstraw; 
A Village Intent on Reviving Past Renown

BYLINE:  By CHERYL PLATZMAN WEINSTOCK 

 BODY:
MICHELLE AND JOSEPH NATALE grew up in the hilly Rockland County village of Haverstraw. Mrs. Natale, an officer at M & T Bank in Tarrytown, said she had childhood memories of "a quaint little village for children and adults with a busy shopping district and main street." By the time she and her husband, a payment processor for Orange and Rockland Utilities, married and settled in their first home in 1971, things were different.
 Little more than remnants remained of the village's handsome, turn-of-the-century architecture. Haverstraw was once the brick-making capital of the world, but many of its residents had lost their jobs and homes when the local clay ran out in the early part of the century, and other construction materials, like steel, became more popular. 
 Mrs. Natale said she had always wanted to move away, "but our roots are here." So as her family grew, she moved up a house size, deliberately choosing not to leave. 
Then this winter, instead of making a move now that her children are grown, Mrs. Natale, 50, traded her ranch for a 150-year-old, four-bedroom mansard colonial on Hudson Avenue with the thought of turning it into a bed and breakfast. "With all the talk of revitalization here, with the idea of things turning around, I thought it would be a good investment opportunity as well as a way to fulfill a lifelong dream," she said. "I always hoped Haverstraw would turn around, and when it does, I want to be part of it."
Like the Natales, Melissa Salmon-Saravia, and her husband, Giovanni, who own IMF Services, a mortgage and insurance business in Stony Point, were seeking a good real estate investment in March when they found Haverstraw. They were looking to move out of their apartment in Tompkins Cove in Rockland to buy their first home.
"We were looking in surrounding areas," Ms. Salmon-Saravia said. "But mostly we tried to stick to Haverstraw because of its up and coming plans. We did lots of research on different homes and streets that we thought would be profitable in the future." The couple settled on a turn-of-the-century two-family Georgian Victorian on Hudson Street. "If all goes as planned, it's going to be a good investment in the future," Ms. Salmon-Saravia said.
For years investors, real estate developers and the village government have yearned to reinvent Haverstraw using its picturesque two miles of waterfront as a strong magnet. The mayor, Francis J. Wassmer, known as Bud, said the village is getting closer to its goal.
Last fall a ferry began operating, linking the village with Ossining in affluent Westchester County across the Hudson.
Abandoned industrial sites along Haverstraw's Hudson riverfront have been demolished to make way for 850 units of upscale housing and a public promenade. It is hoped that construction will begin within a year, Mayor Wassmer said.
Besides sprucing up its waterfront, Haverstraw has been fixing up its downtown with new facades and has lured several new businesses in the last few months, including cafes, antique dealers and boutiques. Over the last three years the number of crimes reported in the village has been cut in half.
"Haverstraw has not only more than two miles of Hudson River frontage, but also the background of High Tor Mountain," the tallest peak in the Palisades, which at 832 feet seems to tower over Haverstraw, Mayor Wassmer said. "It looks like a European village. Sure, it's been underutilized and gone through hard times, but there's no question that with the right impetus the beauty and charm of the village will come back to life in ways that will be nicer than Nyack, with a distinct Hispanic flavor."
Comparisons with neighboring Nyack are often heard in Haverstraw. Jo Baer, owner of Baer & McIntosh Real Estate in Nyack, said: "In the 1960's, Nyack was a fledgling Hudson River village, like Haverstraw, in need of restoration and rehabilitation of its housing stock. But over the years it's grown to be a thriving, diverse, cultural community that takes advantage of its riverfront." The market has soared in Nyack, she said, with not enough housing stock available for all the people who want to move there.
But Edna I. Rivera, the executive director of Housing Opportunities for Growth, Advancement and Rehabilitation, a community economic development agency, who ran against the mayor in the last election, said she was worried about how Haverstraw's revitalization plans would affect Hispanic residents, the majority in the village.
"We are hoping that the gatekeepers of this village will ensure that this development will benefit its residents first because we are faced with a very big dilemma," Ms. Rivera said. "Essentially, this proposed redevelopment will change the cultural life of this village and its demographic face."
Families are already being forced to flee Haverstraw because rents have gone up, she said. Of 137 businesses in the village, she said, 69 have Hispanic owners or managers."These businessmen," she said, "stand to lose their livelihood."
Rafael Gonzalez, 66, owns 50 Broadway Grocery, which opened in 1977, one of many bodegas in the village. Though he is treasurer of the Hispanic Merchants Association, formed six months ago, he said he did not know whether he would have time to attend classes that Rockland Community College is offering to help Hispanic business owners adapt to change. His day begins at 6 a.m. and ends at midnight. If his business ultimately fails, Mr. Gonzalez said, "I do not know how to start again; I don't know how to do anything else."
For her part, Dona Coene, who just opened the Soup Stone Cafe, said: "If I run out of stuff, I always go to the local bodega. They always have something I need. I think that's what's so special about Haverstraw. We're all working together to make the village work."
EMILY MARTIN, a broker at Prudential Rand Realty in Stony Point, said, "With all the excitement going on, everything on the market is very active, especially multifamily homes," which, according to the mayor, account for almost 70 percent of the village housing stock. "But single-family homes priced right sell in a day," Ms. Martin said.
This month, she said, a small three-bedroom, one-bath colonial on a tenth of an acre without a garage sold for $160,000, more than $5,000 above its asking price.
Susan Bova, owner of Country Sun Realty in Garnerville, said 1,200-square-foot, two- or three-bedroom handyman specials in the village range from $119,000 to $150,000. Larger colonials, or Cape Cods in better condition, bring $150,000 to $200,000. In the $200,000 to $300,000 range, buyers can choose from Victorian homes and smaller multifamily homes, which Ms. Bova called "a great investment." Larger multifamily homes range from $300,000 to $350,000.
Other housing options include 250 attached, three-bedroom town homes at Village on the Green that range from $160,000 to $189,000. There are also 90 condominium units at the Village Mill, the former site of the Long Life Webbing Company, which made suspenders that G.I.'s used to carry their packs during World War II. Ms. Bova said a two-bedroom, one-story unit there started at $130,000. A three-story, two-bedroom town house brings $180,000.
Ms. Martin said two-bedroom apartments in the village's several small buildings rent for $700 to $1,200 a month and could reach $1,700 in multifamily homes .
The houses of worship in the village are as diverse as its housing stock. There are Roman Catholic churches that celebrate Spanish and Polish masses as well as Methodist, Pentecostal and Presbyterian churches.
Haverstraw's cultural and economic diversity is an asset to the Haverstraw-Stony Point School District, generally known as the North Rockland School District, after the district's high school, said Dr. Dodge Watkins, the superintendent.
The 7,884 students of the district come not only from Haverstraw but also from Stony Point, Garnerville, West Haverstraw and parts of Pomona and Highland Falls. Of the total, almost a third are eligible for free or reduced-price lunches. Students get "a unique, real-life situation here," he said. "Their differences are our strength and lead the district to create many new and innovative programs."
The district, which has five elementary schools, including Gerald F. Neary in the village; three middle schools, of which Haverstraw Middle School is in the village; and one high school, offers everything from prekindergarten classes and a special education program to an ability to study the stars first hand in the planetarium.
"We're a full-service comprehensive school system," Dr. Watkins said. "One of our testimonials is that we're one of the fastest-growing districts in the region."
Of this year's 436 graduating seniors at North Rockland High School, 41 percent will go on to four-year colleges and 52 percent to two-year colleges. The latest College Board scores for the district, from the spring of 2000, were 497 in verbal and 493 in math, very close to the state averages.
The school is far above average, however, in its performance in sports, which are enthusiastically supported by the community. Since 1993, North Rockland has won state championships in football, baseball, girls soccer and girls volleyball.
There are several parks in the village. Mayor Wassmer said a $500,000 renovation would begin later this year at the five-acre, riverfront Emeline Park, where a children's section and lighted trails will be built.
Dutch farmers first settled in Haverstraw, a land of rich blue and yellow clay, in 1666. By 1771, the first brick-making operation opened. Other brickyards soon followed to keep up with orders from New York City. By 1883, Haverstraw was so renowned for making bricks that, in that year alone, 2,400 men worked in the brickyards, producing more than 302 million bricks.
The village was incorporated in 1854. With its clay deposits stripped, Haverstraw brickyards barely remained open during the 1920's. Its last brickyard closed in 1941.
Mrs. Natale, whose memories of Haverstraw go back to her childhood, is hopeful about the village's future, and her own. "I know right now it's hard to envision Haverstraw needing a bed and breakfast," she said. "But I'm beginning to get inquiries about people needing a place to stay for class reunions and weddings." She hopes to open her doors next year

GRAPHIC: Photos: Residences on Hudson Avenue, site of many century-old Victorian and colonial houses; the shopping district at New Main and Broadway; the ferry landing at Riverside Avenue and Shore Clove Road. (Photographs by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times); 3- or 4-bedroom, 1-bath house at 83 West Street, $129,000.; 4-bedroom 12-room Victorian with 2 full baths, 2 half baths at 56 New Main Street, $195,000.; 3-family brick house with common driveway at 238 Westside Avenue, $319,000. Chart: "GAZETTEER"POPULATION: 10,117 (2000 census).AREA: 2 square miles.MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $46,385 (1997 census estimate).MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOME: $175,000.TAXES ON MEDIAN PRICED HOME: $4,627.MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $140,000.MEDIAN PRICE FIVE YEARS AGO: $100,000.MEDIAN PRICE OF A TWO-BEDROOM CONDOMINIUM: $160,000.MIDRANGE RENT ON 2-BEDROOM APARTMENT: $850.PUBLIC SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $13,066.DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 30 miles.RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: One hour, 40 minutes to Port Authority bus terminal on Red and Tan Line; one-way, $6.30, 20-trip ticket, $103.65. One hour, 20 minutes on Haverstraw-Ossining Ferry to Metro-North's Ossining (Hudson Line) Station to Grand Central Terminal, one-way, $3 for parking, $3 for the ferry and $7.50 for the rail; $193 monthly for ferry and rail, $30 monthly for parking.GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Francis J. Wassmer, Republican) and four trustees, elected on a staggered basis every two years to four-year terms.CODES: Area, 845; ZIP, 10927.OF HOPPER AND HITCHCOCK: One of Edward Hopper's well-known paintings was based on a home he painted in the village of Haverstraw that was along Route 9W and across from the now defunct railroad station. In 1925 Hopper, a resident of Nyack, was seen sitting across from the mansard-roofed house, capturing it on his portable easel. The work, known as "House by the Railroad," was acquired by the Museum of Modern Art in 1930 and later gained even greater fame in Hollywood. In 1960, Alfred Hitchcock is said to have used the painting as a template for the menacing home of Norman Bates and his mother in "Psycho." Map of Rockland County, New York, highlighing Haverstraw

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (75%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

COMPANY: ORANGE & ROCKLAND UTILITIES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: WEINSTOCK, CHERYL PLATZMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) HAVERSTRAW (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



605 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: After 7 Years of Planning, Memorial to Irish Famine Is Ready 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS STAUDTER 

 BODY:
WHEN the Great Hunger Memorial of Westchester County is unveiled on Tuesday in V. E. Macy Park in Ardsley, it will be the culmination of an effort by community leaders and elected officials to commemorate the suffering and, ultimately, the courage of millions of Irish immigrants and others who arrived on our shores looking for a new life.
 The memorial, a multiform sculpture created by the Irish artist Eamonn O'Doherty, is also meant to call attention to the fact that "hunger shouldn't exist in a land of plenty," said James J. Houlihan, chairman of the Great Hunger Memorial Committee. Along with raising more than $600,000 for the memorial, a charitable foundation connected to the project has been helping support area soup kitchens, food banks and meal programs. 
 In the last four years more than 100 volunteers have worked to see the memorial become a reality, but Eleanor McDonald of White Plains initiated the idea. 
In 1994 Ms. McDonald, her sister Patricia, and Maureen Redmond, a friend from Ossining, attended a conference on world hunger at Glucksman Ireland House at New York University. Inspired to fight hunger at a local level, Ms. McDonald incorporated the Great Hunger Foundation and started organizing different events around the county to raise money and collect food for the poor. One such event, "Make a Difference Day" at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains, featured an interfaith prayer service and collected more than 7,000 pounds of food for local organizations.
Enter Louis A. Mosiello, the county legislator who represents District 15 in Yonkers. After being elected to office in November 1995, Mr. Mosiello realized he needed "to reach out to the many Irish-Americans living in my district, to learn about their culture and find out what ways I could be of service to them." So he invited Hugh Fox Jr., a constituent, and Ms. McDonald, whose charitable work he was aware of, to a meeting.
There, Ms. McDonald and Mr. Fox presented an idea for a memorial to the Irish who died in the potato famine of the mid-19th century or were forced to leave their country. Similar memorials had already been erected in Ireland (and a few in the United States), and since roughly 25 percent of Westchester's population is of Irish ancestry, everyone agreed that it seemed fitting that the county have a similar memorial. 
An ad hoc committee advocating a Great Hunger Memorial was formed in 1996 and Mr. Mosiello presented the idea to Andrew O'Rourke, who was then the county executive. Mr. O'Rourke accepted it with the stipulation that the county would donate the land for the memorial if private funds were raised for its planning and construction.
The election of Andrew J. Spano as Mr. O'Rourke's successor in 1996 brought a moment of trepidation to the memorial's backers, who didn't know if he would shepherd the project along or not. In his first week in office, however, Mr. Spano endorsed the memorial and proposed V. E. Macy park as its site.
Having taught junior high and high school history entering politics, Mr. Spano said he was quite aware of the horrors suffered by the Irish people in 1845 when the potato crop failed and approximately 1.5 million people died of starvation. More than 2 million braved inhuman steerage conditions in "coffin ships" that crossed the Atlantic to find hope abroad, many of them landing in New York Harbor. Jobs available to these immigrants were among the hardest imaginable: digging canals and building dams and railroads. In Westchester, the Irish immigrants helped build the aqueducts that provided water to New York City residents.
"Hunger is often the result of government policy," Mr. Spano said, "and as a public servant it's my job to deal effectively with this problem."
He pointed out that Westchester soup kitchens served more than four million meals last year, and stressed the need for more awareness of and programs to fight hunger. "After all, we live in a area where there is tremendous affluence," he said, "but we still don't have our hands completely around the problems of feeding the hungry and housing the poor."
V. E. Macy Park, which envelops the Saw Mill River Parkway in Ardsley and part of Irvington and includes Woodlands Lake, was slated for major renovations that would turn it into a "family friendly" destination when the Great Hunger Memorial proposal came through. The park is named for Valentine Everett Macy, who was superintendent of the poor in Westchester during the 1930's.
The memorial sculpture will be the first public artwork erected in a county park in the last couple of years, said Mary Kaye Koch, a public information officer with the county parks department. 
Mr. Mosiello, who is an honorary chairman of the Great Hunger Memorial Committee along with Mr. Spano as well as executive chairman, said, "I'm hoping this will be the catalyst for more public art in our parks."
In July 1997 the Great Hunger Memorial Committee began in earnest to organize and make plans, agreeing, Mr. Houlihan said, that the memorial should appeal to and reflect a vast number of residents, "because what happened to the poor in Ireland 150 years ago, their hunger and homelessness, is still being experienced by people all over the world today."
The committee's intention, Mr. Houlihan said, was never "to just build a statue for people to look at -- we wanted it to be part of educational programs, too." To that end one such event the committee recently sponsored was an art and literary competition for students, from elementary to university levels, to interpret aspects of the great Hunger of Ireland, also known as "An Gorta Mor."
For the memorial itself a worldwide competition was held, and the committee received serious proposals from as far away as Australia and the Netherlands. A panel of judges that included curators from local museums, an art professor, an artist and an architect, among others, whittled the contestants down to four semifinalists, choosing a proposal in the end from Mr. O'Doherty, who is known in Ireland for his large-scale public sculptures.
Ms. McDonald, the comptroller for the village of Harrison, served as treasurer to the Great Hunger Memorial. She said that more than $635,000 has been raised to erect the memorial and to finance hunger and educational programs. While about $100,000 in public grants secured with the help of State Senator Nicholas A. Spano and his younger brother, State Assemblyman Michael J. Spano, have aided the effort substantially, individuals contributed much of the money raised. A gala dinner dance held last November at the Rye Town Hilton, which featured traditional Irish songs from Cathie Ryan of South Salem, raised $375,000.
Ms. McDonald said, "When a lot of Irish-Americans in the area began to learn more about the impact of what happened in 19th-century Ireland in terms of politics, economics and sociology, they became passionate about being a part of this and seeing the memorial come to fruition."
One couple eager to attend the unveiling are John and Eileen Carey, longtime Yonkers residents who came to the United States from Ireland more than 40 years ago and who spent the last four years volunteering their time to the memorial committee.
"I feel a lot of pride seeing the memorial," Mrs. Carey said. "It'll be a lasting monument to the Irish and other nationalities who came to this country. It's something that should have been done a long time ago." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Statues that are part of the Great Hunger Memorial, to be unveiled in V. E. Macy Park in Ardsley, being prepared for shipment from Dublin. Though the memorial honors the Irish who survived the potato famine, it is also intended as a reminder that hunger has no place in an affluent area. (pg. 12); The site for the Great Hunger Memorial at V. E. Macy Park in Ardsley, at Woodlands Lake South County Trail, about 50 feet from the lake. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. 15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD CHARITIES (90%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (90%); FAMINE (90%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); COUNTIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); IMMIGRATION (77%); REFUGEES (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); NUTRITION (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); RELIGION (70%) FOOD; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FAMINE; DIET AND NUTRITION; SOUP KITCHENS; IRISH-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD FOR THE POOR (55%)

PERSON: STAUDTER, THOMAS 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (91%) MACY, V E, PARK (ARDSLEY, NY); IRELAND

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



606 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
A New Type of Project for Affluent Saddle River

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
AFTER more than 20 years, changes in ownership and a legal debate, a 28-acre triangular-shaped site along Route 17 is midway through its transformation into a mixed-used development that is changing the face of Saddle River, an affluent community in northwestern Bergen County.
 Now along with the stately houses on manicured lawns that define Saddle River, where the former President Richard M. Nixon lived in retirement, there will be four real estate uses new to the borough: low- and moderate-income housing, assisted-living apartments for the elderly, a hotel and an office building. 
 "It's a good use of the property," said Conrad S. Caruso, the mayor of Saddle River, who described the project as "the largest single development" in the history of this borough of 3,120. 
A separate owner is developing each component. They are following an overall plan worked out by a different developer and local officials to ensure the project would complement the character of the five-square mile borough. The site is bordered by Boroline and East Allendale Roads and is on the west side of Route 17, while most of the rest of the borough is on the opposite side. 
The 153-unit assisted-living development has already been completed. It serves people 70 or older who need help with daily chores but who do not need constant medical care. 
The affordable housing is rising on 7.6 acres in the northern corner of the site and consists of 19 rentals for people age 62 or over and 57 condominium apartments. All of the units will be affordable to people earning no more than $53,465 a year for a family of four. 
Meanwhile, construction is under way on a three-story, 174-room Marriott Residence Inn. And work is expected to begin this summer on a 100,000-square-foot office building. 
The groundwork for the mixed-use development started in the mid-1980's, when borough officials rezoned a wooded parcel for offices and low- and moderate-income housing. The housing was intended to meet the borough's obligation under the State Supreme Court's Mount Laurel doctrines, which require municipalities to provide through zoning the opportunity for affordable housing to be built; otherwise they could be sued by builders. Saddle River's obligation is for 152 such units.
"To make the affordable housing work needed a financial engine, and in this case it was the office buildings," Mayor Caruso said.
But the site defied development because it was not served by public water and sewer lines. During the real estate recession of the late 80's, the property was taken by its lender through foreclosure.
NOTHING happened until 1992, when Saddle River Properties of Englewood Cliffs acquired the site for $1.5 million on behalf of an investor, mainly because of its location. But with the office market in the doldrums the new owner revised the development plan to the current one.
"We felt this was the finest use of the land, and it made economic sense for us and was in scale and more compatible with the residential character of Saddle River and neighboring Allendale," said Constantine Karalis of Brooklyn, the project's architect and development and planning consultant. In addtion, 31 percent of the parcel will be left open, he said. 
Still, it took four years to gain all of the state and local approvals. To address the public water and sewer issue, Mr. Karalis said, Saddle River Properties and the borough negotiated agreements with Upper Saddle River for the water and with Allendale for the sewers. The cost of those improvements was $3 million. 
The owner then divided the site into four parcels to sell to developers. The seven-acre assisted-living component was developed first. Such residences are being constructed rapidly throughout New Jersey. Now there are 111 assisted-living communities in the state, up from 16 in 1994, according to the state's Department of Health and Senior Services.
Saddle River and Bergen County have sizable populations of old people and of children who make the decisions for their elderly parents, said Nanci Wechsler, a spokeswoman for Marriott Senior Living Services, the developer. The building houses 90 assisted-living suites and a 25-bed special-care wing for people with Alzheimer's disease and related memory disorders, she said.
Monthly rents, including all meals and services, start at $3,300. 
By 1997 while construction of the assisted-living community was under way, the other components of the project hit a roadblock. The owner of 23 acres on the opposite side of Saddle River sued the borough under the Mount Laurel doctrines, creating uncertainty that caused developers of the Route 17 project to delay until late 1999.
Because the borough did not yet have its affordable housing plan approved by the state, it was still vulnerable to builders' lawsuits. 
Stuart R. Koenig, the lawyer for the borough's planning board, said the suit was ultimately settled with the zoning for the mixed-use project remaining intact and the other property owner's site rezoned from single family homes to town houses.
Saddle River Realty L.L.C is developing the in-town affordable housing, which will be completed in January at a cost of $5 million, said Thomas Caleca, a principal of the Ramsey-based company. 
The 57 condominiums, called Saddle River Estates, will have one, two or three bedrooms and 550 to 1,100 square feet of space. Sale prices, depending on family size and income, range from $64,406 to $157,500. Monthly fees are expected to average $104. 
There are deed restrictions on the homes that dictate the resale prices, said Jack R. D'Ambrosio, executive director of the Housing Authority of Bergen County, which will manage the overall development. 
The authority will also acquire for $1.45 million the rental apartments, called Saddle River Senior Housing. The units will have one and two bedrooms and 507 to 815 square feet of space. Monthly rents will be based on 30 percent of a person's income, or a minimum of $350, whichever is greater, Mr. D'Ambrosio said. 
"Most towns are concerned that they have an opportunity to participate in the planning of a Mount Laurel development and what it will eventually look like," he said. "The Saddle River project will be an example of what other towns can plan for." 
The Marriott Residence Inn, an extended-stay hotel, will rise in the next 16 months. Robert S. Mannon, regional vice president for development at Marriott, said his company got involved in the project because "it offered an unique opportunity in a market where the barriers to entry are high." 
HOTELS in such markets typically achieve an above-average occupancy rate, he said, adding that the projection for the Saddle River hotel is 82 percent, compared with the national average of 67 percent.
Innkeepers U.S.A Trust of Palm Beach will own and manage the $15 million hotel, and Marriott will collect a franchise fee. Daily room rates will be $120 to $140. 
Despite the cooling economy, Mr. Mannon said the Route 17 business corridor is underserved by extended-stay hotels. The corridor encompasses 17 towns in northwest Bergen County.
There have not been any new Class A office buildings built along the corridor in nearly 15 years, said Thomas A. Reilly, senior vice president at CB Richard Ellis, the national commercial brokerage, in Paramus. Cushman & Wakefield, the national brokerage, put the corridor's vacancy rate at 10 percent, down from 13.3 percent last year.
Those are among the reasons Kwartler Associates of Waldwick plans to construct the 100,000-square-foot office building, now called Saddle River Executive Center, without a specific tenant in hand. Marty Kwartler, a principal at the company, added that the site is also one of the last parcels at a four-way interchange on the highway at East Allendale Road. His firm is developing the building for TA Associates Realty, an institutional real estate investment company in Boston.
The T-shaped building, two stories high in parts and three stories in others, will cost $120 a square foot to build. It will rise on 9.5 acres and is being designed by Poskanzer Skott Architects of Ridgewood with a facade of red brick, precast concrete and glass. Completion is expected by the third quarter of 2002, and by then whatever softness there is in the market will be gone, Mr. Reilly predicted. 
The bottom line, Mr. Kwartler added, is that "Saddle River, like Beverly Hills, is an address that is irreplaceable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The new housing will consist of 19 rental and 57 condo apartments. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlighting Saddle River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (75%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL 

COMPANY: RESIDENCE INN (57%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (56%) GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) SADDLE RIVER (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



607 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2251 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property; 
When Hotels Add Hospitality to History

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
WHEN his real estate broker told Philip Pilevsky in 1998 that the 24-story American Radiator Building was for sale, he barely hesitated before offering $15 million. The site, at 40 West 40th Street, is directly across from Bryant Park behind the New York Public Library in the heart of Midtown, making it ideal for the upscale hotel he had in mind. The Japanese company that owned the landmark office building accepted the relatively low price because at the time the Japanese had largely soured on American real estate and the American Radiator Building had been vacant for several years. 
 For Mr. Pilevsky, the prize was not only that the building has a prime location but also that it had been designed in 1924 by Raymond M. Hood, who also designed the Daily News and McGraw-Hill buildings. Moreover, the American Radiator Building was a designated landmark, which by definition confers status. 
 In the two months that the hotel, now named the Bryant Park, has been open, it has been full much of the time, according to Elon Kenchington, its managing director, and seems likely to continue to do well even after its current introductory rate of $295 a night rises to $500. 
The cachet conferred by old buildings, many with architectural elements that would be difficult to replicate today, has long been part of the attraction of such grand hotels as the Plaza or the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan, just as a sense of place and history is inescapable at West Point's Hotel Thayer. The same attractions are part of the reason for the conversion of old buildings into hotels, a pattern that shows no signs of letting up. The following historic or landmark hotels have opened in Manhattan in the last 18 months: 
* The Regent Wall Street, a blocklong 144-room hotel that opened at 55 Wall Street in December 1999. Originally built in 1842, it housed the New York Merchants' Exchange, the United States Custom House and, for almost 90 years, National City Bank (now Citigroup). For a brief while, the building was operated by the Cipriani family, which had been running a catering service and concert operation in the building's great hall. But nine months before the hotel opened, Sidney Kimmel, the owner of the hotel, chose Regent International Hotels, owned by the Carlson Companies of Minneapolis, to operate all aspects of the property.
According to its architects, Anthony Morali and Michael Gadaleta of M. G. New York Architects, the Regent's vault is the room most requested for meetings, for up to 12 people. And its eight pre-Civil War jail cells, with dirt floors and arched ceilings, are occasionally open to groups that request tours, according to Christopher Knable, the general manager. 
* The 108-room Dylan Hotel at 52 East 41st Street, a 1903 Beaux-Arts building that was once the home of the Chemists' Club and for which the Dylan's owner, Morris Moinian, said he had earmarked $30 million for renovation, including $1 million for such architectural details as its three-story marble winding staircase.
* The Muse, a former manufacturing loft, now a 200-room hotel at 130 West 46th Street, whose original triple-arched limestone and brick facade has been restored.
* The 270-room, 20-story W hotel at Union Square at 201 Park Avenue South (17th Street), formerly the Guardian Life Building, built in 1911.
What has been happening in New York is also happening throughout the United States. In communities across the land old houses, factories, bank buildings, schools, post offices and railroad stations are in growing demand as hotels or apartments.
"We've definitely seen more historic and landmark buildings being restored as hotels in recent years, rather than just torn down," said Mary Foley Billingsley, a spokeswoman for the National Trust Historic Hotels of America. From 32 member hotels in 1989, when it was founded, the organization now has 171. Some of the buildings have been hotels since they were built, but others had been plantation houses, inns, private residences, taverns, even hunting retreats. 
A quarter of the 40 properties in the Omni Hotels group are historic or landmarks. And the company has allocated more than $200 million for the recent renovation and restoration of its San Francisco and New Orleans properties as well as the Parker House in Boston (which claims to be the longest continuously operated hotel in America), the venerable Shoreham Hotel in Washington and the former William Penn Hotel in Pittsburgh.
Within the past two years, Marriott's Ritz-Carlton brand opened a hotel at a 101-year-old former department store in New Orleans, while Marriott's Courtyard brand transformed a Riggs bank in Washington into a hotel, restored a former molasses factory in New Orleans and opened a hotel in a City Hall annex in Philadelphia. Other notable buildings that have been transformed into hotels in Philadelphia recently include a former bank and office tower designed by McKim, Meade & White, now a Ritz-Carlton, and the modernist landmark Philadelphia Savings Fund Society Building, which is now the Loews Philadelphia Hotel. 
"I think part of what's going on," said William J. Higgins, a partner at Higgins & Quasebarth, a Manhattan based firm that specializes in preserving historic and landmark properties, "is that just as the world is becoming Americanized, America is becoming Europeanized -- at least to the extent of restoring and reusing old buildings, rather than just knocking them down."
And, he said, "Americans have also come to realize that preservation is part of our economic well being."
Mr. Higgins added that the typical office building is rather easily converted into a hotel, because usually only their main lobbies and elevator lobbies on the upper floors tend to be landmarked or otherwise worth preserving. 
Converting historic buildings can entail complicated calculations. If the building being converted has been designated a landmark by the city, there will be considerable additional expense in meeting the requirements of local landmark regulations. For many hotel owners, however, the landmark designation carries considerable cachet and usually translates into higher room rates. 
Hotels and other public buildings on the National Register of Historic Places must be at least 50 years old, and their owners must refrain from altering the architecture. But the designation makes owners eligible for a reduction of the federal income tax they owe, equal to 20 percent of the cost of the rehabilitation.
PROFESSOR RICHARD PENNER, who teaches at the School of Hotel Administration at Cornell University, said old buildings had been turned into modern hotels for decades, including many that were hotels to begin with but had been allowed to become rundown. While New York, Chicago, Philadelphia and Los Angeles still have many such buildings, there are also examples in smaller cities like Providence, Hartford and Burlington, Vt.
West Point's historic Hotel Thayer, an imposing five-story granite building that resembles a medieval fortress, reopened 17 months ago with 150 rooms after a $26 million rehabilitation by Hudson River Partners, a Washington company made up entirely of West Point graduates. Next year, according to Charles Barren, managing director of the Thayer, construction is scheduled to start on a second phase that will increase total capacity to 250 rooms. Some small function rooms that were added to the main building in the 1960's will be replaced. The four-story annex added in 1946 will be replaced by a free-standing five-story tower that will contain a conference center, business center, new restaurant, lounge, 6,000-square-foot ballroom and a fitness center. 
In the initial phase, the hotel's stone facade entrance, which had been enclosed by glass since the 1960's, was restored. "It took us about 12 months to do the historic preservation," said Douglas P. Bennett, the general partner of Hudson River Partners, a 1964 graduate of West Point and a Vietnam veteran. "But all of us were aware of what the hotel meant to us and to West Point, and now that restoration is used as a case study within the Department of the Army for what you can do with a military installation." While Hudson River Partners has a long-term lease on the hotel, the Army owns the land beneath it. 
In some cases, local authorities eager to have a landmark hotel restored or upgraded are happy to extend a helping hand to hotel companies. For example, the 305-room Omni New Haven Hotel at Yale, at 155 Temple Street, two blocks from Yale University across the New Haven Green, is not a historic building but has become something of a local landmark. Michael Deitemeyer, Omni's chief operating officer, said the state of Connecticut gave Omni $10 million toward the $30 million it spent to restore a 25-year-old hotel on the site that had been closed for about five years. Since the hotel reopened in 1998, "it has done very well for us," Mr. Deitemeyer added.
The Applied Development Company of Hoboken, N.J., a contractor and developer, primarily of multifamily residential properties, expects to do well with its first venture into a heritage hotel -- the early 20th century mansion in Morristown, N.J., of Theodore N. Vail, the first president of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. The municipality of Morristown bought the mansion in 1922 for government offices, and Allied Development, which plans to put up a 101-room luxury hotel, bought it from the town for $2 million. 
"We're obliged by our agreement with Morristown to restore it back to its historic standards," said Michael I. Barry, a principal in the 31-year-old family company.
This will entail restoring the lobby and lounge to their original condition, while adding a guest house in the rear that will not alter the facade. The design architect is Brennan Beer Gorman, and Dewitt Tishman is the construction architect. Moreover, the company has already hired a preservationist to make sure that each detail is done exactly as required by Morristown and the state.
Hotel owners and developers often differ about whether it is more economical (if one can use that word to describe multimillion-dollar properties) to buy an existing building and convert it or to build from the ground up. While restoring an old building may save as much as 40 percent in construction costs, the cost of equipping old buildings with the health clubs, spas, restaurants and the wiring necessary for the high-tech equipment that guests expect in high priced hotels can more than wipe out any anticipated savings. In addition, the time and material needed to duplicate the original buildings can be very high. 
Omni's $22 million restoration at its William Penn hotel in Pittsburgh includes $3 million just to repoint the bricks. In the case of the Bryant Park, Mr. Pilevsky spent $35 million in addition to the $15 million purchase price. 
The biggest part of that, of course, was overhauling the rooms and much else of the interior, almost none of which was landmarked, and the cost of hotel's overall architectural design, which was done by David Chipperfield, a British architect. Still, Mr. Pilevsky estimated that the restoration of the facade, including the black brick of the hotel's tower and its terra-cotta ornaments, added "at least $2 million to $3 million more" than it would have cost had the building not been a landmark. Even at that, he added, there were certain things he wanted but was prohibited by regulations from having. "We wanted bigger windows," he said, "but you learn to live with not having them.
Architects and preservations says they are sometimes surprised by what they find during restorations. Such was the case during the current $15 million makeover of the Waldorf Towers, the 70 year-old "hotel within a hotel" that has a dedicated separate entrance and lobby, despite occupying the 28th through 42nd floors of the Waldorf-Astoria on 50th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues. 
IN adding to the 18th floor 13 contiguous meeting rooms and recreating the Art Deco splendor of the Starlight Roof, workers made what Waldorf officials said was a significant discovery: details that had been covered over in previous alterations of the hotel's public places, including arched ceilings with grill work in the center.
"We are uncovering incredible vintage architectural details that have been lost during the past 50 years of successive waves of modernization," said Pamela Graber, the executive director of the Towers.
Somewhat similarly, in their renovation of the Regent Wall Street, Mr. Morali and Mr. Gadaleta, the architects, were also often surprised. Above the flat ceiling of the building's arcade, Mr. Morali said, they found a hidden dropped ceiling, and when they removed that, they found a vaulted ceiling. Additionally, when they analyzed the paint on the ballroom ceiling, through a process known as photo microscopy, in order to determine the age and condition of paint, they were in for another surprise. 
"When we did the initial analysis, we found layers of blue paint," Mr. Gadaleta said, "but the ceiling now is beige with gold trim. And there's a gold leaf on the main dome in the center of the ballroom ceiling.
"So we're going to bring in conservators to analyze the paint, to further bring it back to its original color."
Although he could just as well have been speaking about the Waldorf Towers or many other restorations for that matter, Mr. Morali said, "When you find these discoveries, you feel like an anthropologist."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 22, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 24 about hotels in historic structures misstated the restriction on architectural changes by owners of buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The requirement that changes comply with federal standards takes effect only if a building has received federal tax credits for historic preservation or federal funds. Mere listing on the register does not restrict an owner's ability to change the building.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hotel Thayer, West Point. The historic granite building, with 150 rooms, reopened 17 months ago after a $26 million renovation. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times); The Regent Wall Street. The blocklong building at 55 Wall Street has been a 144-room hotel since December 1999. (M. G. New York Architects); The Bryant Park. The entrance to the cellar bar at the hotel, open for two months at 40 West 40th Street. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Bryant Park, left, was the American Radiator Building. The building at 55 Wall Street, top right, housed a predecessor to Citicorp for almost 90 years. The Vail mansion in Morristown, N.J., will become a luxury hotel. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times, left; Dith Pran/The New York Times); (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (72%); CATERING SERVICES (71%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES 

COMPANY: CARLSON COS INC (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%); NATIONAL CITY CORP (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (52%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%)

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



608 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD; 
The Longest Light

BYLINE:  By CAREN CHESLER 

 BODY:
A driver in West Milford could whip out an egg, hard-boil it and eat it. Or cook a TV dinner. Or, if a car full of fans were rushing home to watch a basketball game, they would miss nearly half of the first quarter.
 Welcome to West Milford, home of the country's longest traffic light. 
 Drivers pulling up to the light at the intersection of Clinton Avenue and Route 23 in Passaic County can wait as long as 5 minutes and 33 seconds during the morning rush hour if they approach it as it is turning red.
Looked at another way, residents on Clinton Avenue who need to use Route 23 could spend about 20 hours a year waiting at the light. The only light that comes close to being as long, transportation officials say, is in Delaware -- and that light lasts only four minutes.
Maurice Rached, a project engineer with the state Department of Transportation in Bergen, Passaic and Essex Counties, said that drivers trying to cross Route 3 in Bergen and Passaic counties and Routes 1 and 9 in Essex County had similar problems.
"Route 23 has experienced more and more demand over the last 20 years, to the point where it was difficult to manage the existing demand," Mr. Rached said.
He attributed the traffic congestion to housing developments that have sprung up like mushrooms in Sussex County. The problem is that many of the highways are flanked by stores and strip malls, making any road-widening project about as easy as putting another lane in the Lincoln Tunnel. So the transportation department came up with a simpler -- and more economical -- tool to manage congestion: manipulate the duration of the traffic lights at cross streets, allowing more cars to move through the main road.
The result is that the average waiting time at a traffic light during peak hours in New Jersey has doubled over the last 20 years, to about 150 seconds from 70 seconds.
For instance, the light in West Milford used to be 2 minutes and 40 seconds long. But during the morning rush hour, traffic on Route 23 would back up nearly two miles when the light at Clinton Avenue would turn red. The light there was made longer last June.
In fact, 5 minutes and 28 seconds was such an unusually long time for a signal to remain red that the transportation department had to tinker with the light to make it work since the signal's computer limited the amount of time a signal could stay red to 4 minutes and 15 seconds.
Afterward, Mr. Rached said he received complaints from residents who thought there was something wrong with the light -- though the letters and phone calls have subsided.
"We've received complaints about almost every traffic signal along Route 23," he said. "When you have a congested highway like this, you get complaints."
Not only are traffic signals longer, there are also more of them. In 1981, there were 1,765 traffic signals dotting the state's highways. Today, there are nearly 2,700.
This is yet another reason commuters in New Jersey are finding that their drive to work -- or just about anywhere -- takes much longer. In 1982, a commuter in the northeastern section of the state sat in traffic for 8 hours over the course of a year, according to the Texas Transportation Institute. In 1999, that figure was 34 hours.
Of course, Mr. Rached should know. His own daily commute from Lawrenceville to his office in Newark takes 90 minutes each way. When asked what will happen when the state roads reach their capacity, he said, "We're already at capacity."
These multiplying traffic lights also take a financial toll.
A traffic signal costs from $80,000 to $100,000 to install, and once it's up and running, it costs about $1,400 a year in electricity to run it. The result: New Jersey taxpayers have an $8.4 million electric bill each a year for traffic lights alone.
Steven Carrellas, the head of the New Jersey chapter of the National Motorists Association, contended that if state and local highway officials stopped relying on traffic lights -- or better synchronized the ones already up while at the same time increasing the speed limits -- more cars could be accommodated.
"It's an urban myth that higher speeds lead to more accidents," Mr. Carrellas asserted. "There's a smoothness factor. Faster, smoother traffic is generally safer than traffic that lumbers along haphazardly."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy Milford waits at Clinton Avenue and Route 23, West Milford, the longest light. (Photographs by Demitrius Balevski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); BASKETBALL (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (64%); RETAILERS (64%) ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND SIGNS 

PERSON: CHESLER, CAREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) WEST MILFORD (NJ); NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



609 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 366 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS; 
Sarah Schenck, John Donohue

 BODY:
Sarah Louise Hazlett Schenck and John Joseph Donohue were married yesterday by the Rev. Vernon Nichols, a Unitarian Universalist minister, at the Inn at Bally Springs, Pa.
 Ms. Schenck, 35, will keep her name. An independent filmmaker, she wrote and directed a short called "Love Potion," a modern-day version of Adam and Eve's fall, which won a gold medal last year at the International Film and Video Festival in London. She graduated from Bryn Mawr College and received a certificate in Spanish language and culture from the Universidad Complutense de Madrid and a master's degree in political science and international political economy from Stanford. 
 She is the daughter of Jane McClenathan Schenck and Dr. George H. K. Schenck of State College, Pa. Her father, who retired as a professor of mineral economics at Pennsylvania State University, is a consultant in mining engineering.
Mr. Donohue, 32, is the editor for the night life listings in the Goings On About Town section of The New Yorker. He graduated from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y. He is a son of Elizabeth and James F. Donohue of Katonah, N.Y. His father is a trial lawyer in White Plains and the town attorney for Bedford, N.Y.
The couple met in February 1998 at the Ohio Theater in New York, awaiting the start of "The Handless Maiden," an Adobe Theater Company farce based on the Grimm fairy tale about greed and impetuous action. They were sitting next to each other on folding chairs on the theater's wooden risers, and Ms. Schenck was impatiently jiggling her knee, causing the entire row to shake.
"I leaned over and politely asked her to stop," Mr. Donohue said. "She replied, 'You're lucky I'm not weaving and drooling.' "
That left him speechless, but not blind to her charms. After the play, they lingered to discuss its symbolism, and he asked for her telephone number.
"I found his forthrightness in asking for my number refreshing," said Ms. Schenck, who was then the senior policy adviser for education to the New York City comptroller. "I'd been around so many New York City guys who took forever to tell whether they were interested in me for my political connections, for a platonic friendship or for romance."

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); MINING ENGINEERING (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (69%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (68%); THEATER COMPANIES (65%); LAWYERS (64%); THEATER (57%); MINES & MINING (53%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL FILM & VIDEO CENTER INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%)

PERSON: SCHENCK, SARAH LOUISE HAZLETT; DONOHUE, JOHN JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MADRID, SPAIN (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



610 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: MIRROR, MIRROR; 
Still Riding So High and Fine?

BYLINE:  By Penelope Green 

 BODY:
LAST Tuesday morning in the parking lot of Trader Joe's market in Mamaroneck, N.Y., one Lincoln Navigator, one Isuzu Trooper, three Chevy Suburbans, two Dodge Durangos, three Jeep Grand Cherokees, one Chevy Tahoe, one Toyota Land Cruiser, one Mazda Tribute and one Mercedes M-Class sport utility vehicle inched forward and back in an excruciatingly slow elephant ballet. 
 It was 11:40, hot and still, just 10 minutes past the last school pickup of the year. The car silhouettes blurred in the heat, and the faces of the children who had clambered in minutes before faded behind the tinted windows. The fleet seemed monolithic, but the drivers' attitudes were anything but. 
 "I definitely feel weird about this car," said Tricia McRae (Suburban No. 1). Gas prices make her feel that way, as does the environmental cost of driving such a behemoth -- front-page news again after all these years. "Maybe it's always felt a little weird," Ms. McRae said. "But it feels worse now because of the gas crunch. We like to travel, and it's put a damper on all that. When the lease runs out in December, we'll probably go for a station wagon. My husband wants a Miata -- can you imagine? We'd go from the elephant to the ant -- but that doesn't make too much sense with three kids." 
Heidi Hanley (Durango No. 2) has three children, too. "It becomes a juggling act in your head," she said. "Your concerns about your kids' safety with the horrible mileage. I have no conclusions. This is a leased vehicle, and I think about what other car I could get that doesn't guzzle gas. For me, this is definitely an issue connected to what's going on in the White House."
Because S.U.V.'s are less fuel efficient than cars, their runaway popularity has increased America's reliance on foreign oil -- average daily imports are twice as high as in 1981 -- and that has led in part to President Bush's call for drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. S.U.V.'s also pump out nearly three tons more carbon dioxide than an average car in a year, a pollutant that is said to cause global warming, and that issue, too, is back in the news because of the administration's rejection of the Kyoto treaty to limit greenhouse gases.
Americans love their S.U.V.'s, there's no question about it, but there are tiny pockets of what Alan Metrick, communications director of the Natural Resources Defense Council, calls "dis-ease," little bubbles of guilt over what was once the very symbol of suburban success. These S.U.V. owners don't sound brazen when they talk about their vehicles; they sound embarrassed. 
"It's a terrible time to ask me about my car," said Ardith Plimack, 39, who lives in Marin County, Calif. She has two children and a new Toyota Land Cruiser. "I have such a conscience, and at the same time I'm living my life. We used to have a Land Rover Discovery. I was in a terrible accident with it last year. Five kids on a field trip. In the rain. The car was totaled, and none of us had a scratch. 
"When you have a young family and you're schlepping kids all over the place, you know what starts happening? You start writing a lot of checks to the environmental organizations. Part of me thinks I'm paying Peter to keep robbing Paul."
Sales of S.U.V.'s slid almost 10 percent last year (sales of all cars were down a little over 6 percent, as the economy weakened). "We know the S.U.V. market is softening," Mr. Metrick said. "You have all these forces hitting this market: the gas prices, Ford making headlines every day. That can't be helping. Our guess is that there is a section of the S.U.V. market that is saying: 'Do I really need this? Isn't it a little bit silly to be driving this thing?' "
In Greenwich, Conn., the S.U.V.'s nestle together in little herds, two or even three to a family. Marybeth Manley has four children, one Lexus LX470 S.U.V. and a Chevy Tahoe. "I do think it's excessive," she said. "And I have thought we should be driving smaller cars. I didn't like it when Bush said Americans shouldn't have to change their lifestyle. I, for one, feel uneasy. My husband bought the cars."
Emmy Starr has three children and another on the way, a Land Cruiser, a Lexus S.U.V. and a Volkswagen New Beetle. She drives the Beetle to the market when the baby sitter has the children in the Land Cruiser. "It's the biggest one," she said. "It was the only one that you could fit three car seats across the middle. And it's very safe. But it gets terrible gas mileage. I'll probably have to cave to the minivan thing when we have our fourth."
In Martha's Vineyard, the sins of the S.U.V. are as much aesthetic as environmental. "Here it's an awareness that they are a bit of a cliche, something that goes hand in hand with the big trophy home," said Paul Schneider, an island resident and author of "The Enduring Shore: A History of Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket." 
In March, AutoPacific, an automotive product and marketing consulting concern, conducted surveys of S.U.V. owners who had bought their cars since September. It has just compiled the results. 
"These people don't like their cars -- they love them, a lot," said James Hossack, a company vice president. "They like to sit up high and see where they're going. They're not concerned about the environment or gas prices. Most people aren't seeing global warming, they're seeing less pollution than they ever did before. And if gas prices go up to $3 a gallon, who cares? These people don't. The press keeps talking about mileage, and nobody cares. No, sorry, it's not happening."
Is S.U.V. slippage wishful thinking on the part of environmentalists? Actually, the idea of what makes a car and what makes an S.U.V. is blurring. "I don't think they're going to evaporate," said Jerry Hirshberg, founder of Nissan Design International in San Diego and the creator of the Xterra, an S.U.V. he described as "blue jeans on wheels." 
"People like the bigness," he said. "On the other hand it would be naive to think that the image hasn't been tarnished. My own thinking is that something very interesting is about to happen in the car industry. You keep hearing the mantra about S.U.V.'s becoming more carlike. Well, what does that mean for the car? I think there's going to be a huge shift away from what used to define a car."
In designing the 2002 model of the Nissan Altima, a compact sedan, his team looked at what was "rational" about the S.U.V.'s, he said. "We know people love the high-command seating. And so in the Altima we've raised the seats over an inch. That's a big thing. Changes like that can really stimulate the idea of what a car might become." 
James Hall, vice president for industry analysis at AutoPacific, said the market was still S.U.V.-happy, but he noted that "customers are fickle." 
"Personally, and this is my bet, not my company's, I think there'll be a shift and it will come from the next cluster, the so-called Generation Y, the oldest of which are 23 right now. This is the first generation whose parents drove S.U.V.'s. And you know what? No generation before them has wanted to drive its parents' cars if it had an alternative."

GRAPHIC: Photo: BIG -- A Chevrolet Suburban, left, and a GMC Yukon. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CHILDREN (89%); MAMMALS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WILDLIFE (71%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); GASOLINE PRICES (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (50%) AUTOMOBILES; PUBLIC OPINION; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

COMPANY: TRADER JOE'S CO (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GREEN, PENELOPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (71%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



611 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/2002 Ford Thunderbird; 
What's the Word on the T-Bird?

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
MY neighbor, who restores old cars as a hobby, telephoned. Could he photograph his 1966 Ford Thunderbird next to the 2002 model that I was test-driving? He wanted a shot of one of the last convertible Thunderbirds alongside the reborn model.
 His son, 17, who aspires to be an automotive engineer, took pictures as well. He cared little about the Thunderbird's illustrious heritage. He was born long after the trim original of 1955 and the classics that followed over the next decade or so. He remembered Thunderbirds only as bulky, boring, overstyled coupes, the last of which was produced in 1997. "It's cool," he said of the new Thunderbird. "It's about looking cool." 
 I encountered numerous similar reactions throughout my weekend driving the aqua T-Bird at elementary school soccer games, cruising Detroit's famous Woodward Avenue on a warm Saturday night and at dinner at a fancy restaurant. Everywhere I went turned into an automotive event, the likes of which I had not experienced since I drove early versions of the Chrysler PT Cruiser and the Volkswagen New Beetle. People of all ages, genders, ethnic groups and economic classes took notice and had favorable comments. Some wistfully told their stories about earlier T-Birds. 
Indeed, the new car, which arrives in showrooms in August after several delays, is every bit the head-turner that the original '55 and the subsequent classics were. Not intended to be a replica of those cars, the new Thunderbird is more of a modern interpretation, a spiritual successor.
By all accounts from people I queried, Ford has succeeded in meeting its goal. Baby boomers and older people immediately recognize what the new roadster is meant to be. Young people see the Thunderbird's design as something new and fresh.
In contrast with the original and the 1960's versions, the 2002 Thunderbird has a more rounded shape. Yet, its long body, at 186.3 inches (as compared with Mercedes SLK roadster at 158 inches), and distinctive proportions, with a small passenger compartment separating its stretched hood from its long trunk lid, are reminiscent of early Thunderbirds and American convertibles of the 1950's and 1960's.
The new Thunderbird also borrows styling cues from the past, including the large egg-crate grille, the round headlamps, the portholes in the hardtop and the turquoise, white and chrome Thunderbird badge across the trunk, the front and the steering wheel. Some of the available colors are nostalgic. In addition to traditional black, red and white, the Thunderbird comes in a pale yellow and aqua, the hue of my test model.
The optional hardtop matches the exterior color; the soft convertible top is black. The standard interior is black leather. As an option, the interior can be outfitted in some of the same colors used on the outside for a more nostalgic look. Red interior is available with a red, black or white model.
In my preproduction test model, which cannot be judged exactly like a production version, the entire lower portion of the cabin, from the driver's side door across the dash wrapping around to the passenger's door, was aqua. It was interrupted by only the bland-looking center dash, which borrows from the Lincoln LS.
The black vinyl of the upper dash and the lower exterior color were separated by a band of plastic intended to look like brushed metal, which mimics the aluminum trim of classic Thunderbirds. Indeed, the trim looked like metal. The bottoms and backs of the two bucket seats had aqua insets surrounded by black leather. The upper steering wheel and shift knob featured a shimmering aqua that reminded me of my teenage daughter's nail polish.
Interior quarters are intimate. Tall people complain of feeling cramped with the top up, and the top of the windshield may fall in their line of sight. I would have liked a tad more tilt on the back of the passenger seat. My back ached during a long stint as passenger because the seat forced me to sit too upright. The driver seat was quite comfortable, though.
For as long as the car is, space and storage are scant. A teensy space behind the seats accommodated little more than my purse, a sweater and a slim briefcase. The trunk, with 6.7 cubic feet of space, doesn't offer much storage either, enough for a set of golf clubs and an overnight bag perhaps. With the top up, the removable boot cover consumes most of the space.
Open-air motoring is quick by simply opening the center latch and pushing the button on the dash. The black cover to hide the folded-down ragtop, however, takes longer to attach. The snaps to hold it down were stubborn to align and fasten. Raising the top was fussy as well. I had to manually guide the hooks to latch the convertible top closed.
Though one can imagine being back in the 1950's while driving the Thunderbird, the car is outfitted with the usual array of modern conveniences, like cup holders, an in-dash six-disc CD changer and dual climate controls. Safety features include standard side airbags, a child seat latch for the passenger seat and a shutoff switch for the passenger airbag; traction control is optional.
The Thunderbird remains true to the original by being a two-seat roadster, as it was from 1955 to 1957, and being powered by a V-8 engine. In this case, Ford employs the same 3.9-liter V-8 used in the Lincoln LS. The engine generates 252 horsepower and 267 foot-pounds of torque. Fuel economy is estimated at 17 miles a gallon in the city and 23 miles a gallon on the highway.
Because of the Thunderbird's hefty 3,774 pounds (3,863 with the removable hardtop), it is no speed demon. Its power, however, is delivered smoothly and steadily. The V-8 is paired with a five-speed automatic transmission, which isn't nearly as smooth as the engine. It hung on to the lower gears too long before shifting.
The Thunderbird rides on the same platform as the Lincoln LS and Jaguar S-Type, a platform that also will be used for the next-generation Mustang. The Thunderbird is not a sports car; it is a boulevard cruiser. Ford engineers appropriately describe the Thunderbird's ride and handling style as "relaxed sportiness." I found it extremely comfortable in cruising around town and on the freeway and quite competent in winding curves at rather high speeds.
Like most convertibles, the Thunderbird experienced some body shake, but it wasn't excessive for a ragtop. Top up, the roadster had quite a bit of shake and road noise.
Most people I encountered thought the $34,495 base price, including destination, and $39,795 for the fully loaded model, with the hardtop, were reasonable. Of course, those prices do not include the inevitable gouging by dealers because of high demand. Ford intends to build only 25,000 Thunderbirds this year and virtually all are sold.
The 2002 Ford Thunderbird is far from a perfect car. Likely, anyone who buys one will purchase it as a summer toy. The Thunderbird, however, does exactly what Ford intended. It grabs attention; it conjures up romantic notions of the past; it brings back glamour in automobiles; and it's just plain fun.
Indeed, the remake of the Ford Thunderbird suggests an approach that Detroit's automakers could take that would help them regain an advantage over import brands: dig into their heritage and modernize their classic American dream cars. The beauty of such a strategy is that no foreign company -- not Toyota or Honda, or even Mercedes or BMW -- can compete on such a playing field.
No one but Ford could ever build a Thunderbird.

INSIDE TRACK: Something old, something new, something borrowed, something blue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Thunderbird's convertible top liner, above, aims to keep outside noise at bay.; The convertible, above, is standard; a removable top with portholes, top, is optional. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); SOCCER (73%); RESTAURANTS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (66%); ETHNIC GROUPS (51%); ETHNICITY (51%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



612 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1873 words

HEADLINE: Is This the Face of a Midlife Crisis? 

BYLINE:  By RICK MARIN 

 BODY:
HERE'S a guy who did everything right. Graduated from Yale. Married his high school sweetheart. Became a hotshot salesman at one of America's corporate giants. But that's all over now. He has divorced his wife, quit the wireless sales rat race and moved back to his hometown in northeast Pennsylvania. 
 The old midlife crisis strikes again, with one new wrinkle: the guy is 27. 
 "I was king of the world, but I didn't feel fulfilled," he said, asking not to be named because of embarrassment over his circumstances. "That started the snowball, and it all started rolling downhill from there." 
Regrets about the past. Yearning for work that is spiritually fulfilling, not just lucrative. Misgivings about relationships. It turns out that many 20-somethings are wrestling with the kinds of issues long associated with middle age. They're having their "American Beauty" moment a decade or two ahead of schedule.
Think of it as a mid-midlife crisis. Or as some are calling it, a "quarterlife crisis." 
Besides the classic midlife symptoms, 20-somethings have a few others particular to their generation. Having come of age in a period of spectacular boom and bust, they have extraordinarily high, often unmet expectations of wealth and success. The pressure to succeed young and fast is complicated by the instability of careers in the digit ocracy. The king-of-the-world generation suddenly suspects the boat they're in might be the Titanic.
The editor of an online magazine based in Austin, Tex., has started a Quarterlife Crisis support group, inspired by a new book, "Quarterlife Crisis: The Unique Challenges of Life in Your Twenties" (Jeremy P. Tarcher/Putnam), by two women in their 20's, Alexandra Robbins and Abby Wilner.
An e-mail desideratum making the rounds also seems inspired by the book. 
"You start feeling insecure and wonder where you will be in a year or two," it reads in part. "You see what others are doing and judge yourself a bit more than usual. Suddenly, change is the enemy and you try and cling on to the past."
In "Start-up.com," a recent documentary chronicling the rise and fall of an Internet company, one founding partner earnestly declares, "I've got a lot to do before I'm 30!" His plans did not include the dissolution of both his business and a lifelong friendship with his partner, precipitating a premature midlife crisis.
Dr. Marilyn Metzel, an adjunct professor of clinical psychology at the University of Kansas and the University of Missouri, said these issues are being raised by younger patients. "What I'm seeing in my clinical practice is that all the stages of life are now being telescoped," she said. "What we saw in the 50-year-old range, I now see in the 20-to-30-year-old range."
In "Quarterlife Crisis," Ms. Robbins, 25, outlined the distinction between her generation's crisis points and those of her parents' generation. "In midlife, the panic is caused by too much stability, too much predictability, too much security," she said. "With the quarterlife crisis, it's the opposite: no stability, no predictability, no certainty." The result, she added, is a "cycle of intense self-doubt." 
Ms. Robbins and Ms. Wilner, 25, interviewed 100 or so people in their 20's for their book. Ms. Wilner, a Web designer (recently laid off), summarized the problem: "People are taking longer to settle down, in terms of careers, relationships. That is a source of stress."
The instability is confirmed by the latest census and labor data, which show that the 36.3 million Americans in their 20's are marrying later and changing jobs more frequently than their elders. The median age for marriage among men has risen to 27 from 22 a generation ago, and to 25 from 20 among women. According to unpublished data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median length of time workers in their early 20's stay in one job has shrunk by half since 1983 -- from 2.2 years then to 1.1 now. 
Job-hopping and delaying marriage would appear to allow young adults more time to find themselves, but many complain this freedom has them feeling more lost than found. 
Amy Malissa, 23, was in New York a few weeks ago doing what she has been doing for the last six months: looking for work. Ms. Malissa knew that her last job, planning millennial events for the city of Philadelphia, had a built-in expiration date -- but that was fine. She wanted to keep her options open, in line with the conventional wisdom that company loyalty is dead in the new economy. A hundred-plus resumes later, sent from her old room in her parents' house, that wisdom is looking overrated.
"I thought I was being smart taking a job with the freedom to turn in different directions," Ms. Malissa said. "And I'm realizing maybe that was shortsighted or naive."
Cynthia Steele, 27, thought she had everything figured out when she married and found gainful employment as an administrative assistant at the Pittsburgh Symphony. But she is having classic doubts about her life trajectory. "You start wondering, Is this what I really want to do?" she said. "I want to have kids, but do I stay home?" 
William Strauss, the author with Neil Howe of several books on generational identity, sees "a strong historical analogue" between 20-somethings and the 20's Lost Generation. 
"They felt they were burning the candle at both ends," he said. "It was the end of a speculative boom. There was a sense of cultural exhaustion." He quoted a 1926 journal entry of F. Scott Fitzgerald: "Young people wore out early -- they were hard and languid. The city was bloated, glutted, stupid with cakes and circuses, and a new expression, 'O yeah?' summed up all the enthusiasms."
In his book "13th Gen," Mr. Howe defines anyone born from 1961 to 1981 as Generation X, the term made popular by the book of the same name by Douglas Coupland (born in 1961). It includes everyone from irony-clad slackers to the newly disaffected dot-commers. 
Mr. Howe contrasted what he called the "agoraphobia" of some 20-somethings ("too much openness") with the claustrophobia some of their parents in the Silent Generation felt growing up in the 50's and early 60's.
"They complained about too few options," he said. "The tremendous oppression, the man in the gray flannel suit. They felt like they couldn't express themselves, then in the 70's started trading jobs, trading spouses. If you had a neurosis, you bragged about it."
Witness Woody Allen's early movies and Gail Sheehy, who in her 1976 book "Passages" popularized the concept of the midlife crisis.
The Silent Generation's children, now in their 20's, far from bragging about their neuroses, are embarrassed to admit them for fear of seeming weak or derailed from the fast track. "Twenty-somethings need to appear that they have it together," Ms. Robbins said. "Therapy and antidepressants aren't chic."
Dr. Michael Jolkovksi, on the training faculty in the department of professional psychology at George Washington University, agreed. "Young people are often very anxious about their independence and guard it very jealously," he said. "Anything that makes it look like they depend on someone or something puts them in a lot of conflict."
Dr. Jolkovksi pointed out that the term "midlife crisis" was coined by the Danish-born psychoanalyst Eric Erikson to mean not an emergency but a watershed moment. But Dr. Jolkovski also expressed skepticism about the "quarterlife crisis" concept. "A lot of this might be ordinary early adulthood," he said.
Ms. Robbins and Ms. Wilner have met with mixed reactions to their book. Katie Couric expressed skepticism when they appeared on the "Today" show. "Oprah" empathized.
But the quarterlife concept rings true to many in its target audience. Micah Sommers, 26, is working at his third New York-based Internet company in a year. If he is unhappy in his job, he knows he can't claim, as his parents' generation might have, that "the system" is keeping him down.
"There's no one to blame," he said. "There's no scapegoat. We're very much relying on ourselves and looking to ourselves. But one of the big things that's missing is role models or mentors."
His "fantasy world," Mr. Sommers said, "is being an apprentice to some wise old man and I would follow in his footsteps." He said he would like to learn a tangible skill. "Working at an Internet company, everything's so nebulous. There's a need to create and do something real."
Like being a stone cobbler, say, not writing for a travel Web site. 
His roommate, Nathan Graf, 25, has similar preindustrial daydreams. "In the old days, you would apprentice to a blacksmith when you were 12, and when you were 24, you'd have your own blacksmith store," he said. "That sounds really romantic. There was never this smorgasbord of things to choose from."
As Meghan Daum, 31, the author of "My Misspent Youth" (Grove/Atlantic, 2001), a collection of essays written in her 20's, said, "What happens when you have too many options is that you are responsible for what happens to you."
Two years ago, Ms. Daum left Manhattan for a farmhouse in Nebraska, outside Lincoln. "Now I don't go to a party and get all anxious about what everyone else is doing," she said. "I wanted a place where I was so out of context that there would be none of those pressures."
Dr. Metzel said the young adults she treats often "judge themselves so harshly, and so much of judgment is predicated on financial success." She is troubled by their "willingness to sacrifice the internal life for the rewards of the external life."
Jeff Meyer, a software engineer, found himself doing exactly that.
"I'd always grown up knowing that math and sciences were this thing that would provide reason in life, and the idea of humanities and service to the community were absurd," Mr. Meyer said. "Then I left college and realized there's a lot of materialism that comes along with the engineering field and there has to be a place for emotion."
Now 30, he joined the youth ministry at his Washington church four years ago and began doing volunteer work. He leads Bible classes for high school students and takes them to soup kitchens to volunteer. "I have an extremely rich life in terms of the money I'm making," he said. "But there has to be more than those material aspects. A feeling of belonging."
To at least one 20-something, all this mid-midlife angst has translated into a business opportunity. 
Justin Sewell, 29, is co-founder of a Web site, Despair.com, which sells desktop novelties and other anti-motivational items for those running in place. "The glass is half empty: deal with it," says an advertisement for the "pessimist's mug" on the site.
"We just make products that let people know that most who try will fail, that hope often causes more pain than happiness and that the easiest way to become more successful in life is to lower your expectations," Mr. Sewell said "This may be part of what might prompt some 20-somethings to find our products amusing."
He said revenues for the site have doubled annually, from $250,000 in 1998 to $1 million last year. 
"Complain too much," he said, "and you deserve to hear that great rebuke from 'Broadcast News': 'You can't talk about feeling intimidated when you're on top of the world. It's unseemly.' "
But then, that was a boomer movie.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about people in their 20's who find themselves facing personal problems often associated with a midlife crisis misstated the publisher of the book "My Misspent Youth," by Meghan Daum, which illustrates the phenomenon. It is Open City Books, not Grove/Atlantic.

GRAPHIC: Photos: TOO MANY OPTIONS -- Amy Malissa, 23, took a job she knew would soon end. But now, unemployed, she calls herself shortsighted.; SPIRITUAL SUSTENANCE -- Jeff Meyer, below right, a 30-year-old software engineer, says he has enriched his life by teaching Bible classes to students.; SECOND-GUESSING --Cynthia Steele, 27, married and working, questions the direction of her life. (Top left, Jason Cohn for The New York Times; above, Frances Roberts for The New York Times; left, Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. 1); DOWNSHIFT -- Meghan Daum, a writer, left New York and its pressures for Nebraska. (Jeff Bundy for The New York Times)(pg. 2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (69%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); TRENDS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (60%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LIFE STYLES; LABOR 

PERSON: MARIN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (74%); KANSAS, USA (74%); NEBRASKA, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



613 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM; 
Almost 50, And Sold On Stocks

BYLINE:  By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail: jimschem @nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I DISCOVERED something disturbing when I turned 49 a few months ago. When friends heard how old I was, they gasped and shook their heads, acting as if I had already turned 50.
 So now they've got me thinking that way, too: "Gee, I'm 50. Gee, that's depressing." And gee, thanks so much, everyone, for ending my 40's a year too soon. 
 Turning 50, of course, is a milestone. The AARP, formerly the American Association of Retired Persons, which said I can expect a membership application next year, estimates that someone turns 50 in this country about every 8 seconds. Last year, it said, 3.9 million people celebrated that birthday (though maybe that is the wrong verb). Fifty is an age when baby boomers really start believing that it's not how old you are, but rather how old you feel. And isn't it also when we start reading the obituaries and checking rates on certificates of deposit?
But like my friends who are making me feel old before my time, I may also be rushing things. Just because I will soon turn 50 doesn't mean I have to start managing money in the style of my father, a conservative investor whose riskiest financial decision was whether to reinvest his C.D.'s for one year or two.
I have always heard, probably from my father, that as we grow older -- and closer to retirement -- we have to restructure our portfolios to reduce risk. Well, that's not exactly the best advice. Sorry, Dad.
Charles Schwab, the head of the nation's biggest discount brokerage firm and the author of "You're 50 -- Now What? Investing for the Second Half of Your Life" (Crown Business), didn't exactly laugh when I posed the C.D. strategy to him. But I could tell he wanted to.
"If you stay in C.D.'s, you are guaranteed to lose a third of your purchasing power every 10 years," he said, pointing to inflation.
Mr. Schwab's advice for my generation of aging boomers is to keep doing what we've been doing, but more so. That means continuing to invest aggressively, sticking with stocks and their superior growth because we're going to need the money. Although retirement may be only 15 years away, retirement itself can last a long time. Boomers may be living off their investments for decades.
"You just have to be a substantial growth investor, certainly at 50, although it will decrease to some degree at 60, 65, 70," he said. "But we simply know how few Americans are saving earnestly for retirement. We are undersaved as a nation. " So, he said, now is not the time to cut back.
Mike Sullivan, 54, of Dallas, who runs a consulting firm for start-up businesses, is an aggressive stock investor because he wants a comfortable retirement and is confident that stocks will lead him there. He decided on his strategy long ago, and he saw no reason to change it when he hit 50.
"You don't wait until 50," he said. "Fifty doesn't mean a gun has gone off and you say, 'Gee, I have to have a plan.'
"I determined the kind of lifestyle I wanted and did the analysis of what it would take," he added. "With that data in hand, I asked how should I invest to reach that goal. I've had a plan since I was about 28."
Glenda Kemple, president of Quest Capital Management in Dallas, said that turning 50 should make boomers realize that time was indeed growing shorter -- and that they could not afford mistakes. Becoming a timid investor too soon, she added, would be a big one. "One might argue that at 50 you might want to be a bit more conservative, but I don't agree with that," she said.
"Clients in our age group know that stocks will outperform bonds," she added, noting the historical pattern.
BECAUSE boomers may live to 80, 90 or 100, she said, "our time horizon for this money growing may well be 50 years; we need growth now and into the future for it to last us."
Mr. Sullivan said he altered his portfolio only if his goals or the investing environment changed. Ms. Kemple said investors should monitor their goals regularly. And Mr. Schwab suggested re-evaluating a portfolio about every five years. If our situation or the market has changed, we should consider adjustments. If those factors haven't changed, he said, our strategy shouldn't show our age until we turn 65.
Or, if you have my friends, 64. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (84%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (72%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (83%)

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



614 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Rebate History Doesn't Repeat Itself

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
PEOPLE are worried about energy shortages. Flared jeans are a common sight on Fifth Avenue. The Boston Red Sox are in first place. And the Treasury Department is preparing to mail billions of dollars in tax-rebate checks. 
 Now in its fourth day, the summer of 2001 is looking a lot like the summer of 1975. The question -- for fashion plates, Red Sox fans and economists alike -- is how far the similarities will go. 
 Most economic observers have assumed that the best way to predict the outcome of this year's tax rebate, and the likelihood that it will keep the country out of recession, is to look back 26 years. In 1975, President Gerald R. Ford and Congress agreed to send taxpayers about $8 billion in checks in an effort to increase consumer spending. This year, President Bush and Congress agreed to send out $38 billion -- or roughly $11 billion, in 1975 dollars -- for the same reason.
In the months that followed the Ford rebate, Americans spent between one-quarter and one-third of their small windfalls, according to academic studies, and appeared to save the rest. If they behave similarly this time, they will spend about $10 billion to $12 billion, enough to lift the economy in the second half of the year. Indeed, that is just what many Wall Street economists are predicting, and it is one reason that few expect the current downturn to last into the autumn.
But there are significant differences between then and now. To date, those differences have received almost no attention. They are worth considering one by one:

DISTRIBUTION -- At the core of the 1975 rebate was an idea that seems quite foreign today. Not only did the rebate give lower-income people a bigger percentage break on their taxes, it actually sent more cash to them than it did to wealthier people.
A household that made $20,000 or less received a check for $200. A household that made $30,000 or more received a check for $100. Households in between received rebates in between.
The goal was to get as much of the money as possible into the hands of people most likely to spend it, Donald C. Alexander, the commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service in 1975, said in an interview last week. "They wanted to have the greatest impact on moderate- to low-income people," Mr. Alexander said, speaking of policy makers at the time. "They felt these people would need the cash most."
Accounting for inflation, a similar plan this year would send $660 checks to families making $66,000 or less and $330 checks to families making $99,000 or more. Instead, because many poor and middle-class people pay little in income tax, they will end up receiving less than the well-off. Married couples making $27,000 to $44,000 will receive $356 this summer, on average, according to an unchallenged analysis by Citizens for Tax Justice. Couples making more than $72,000 will get $595.

SOCIAL SECURITY -- Of course, in 1975 as well, many people did not pay enough taxes to receive a full rebate. So the government also sent a $50 check to people receiving Social Security -- a group it felt still needed the money and was likely to spend it.
One could while away hours debating the relative fairness of the two approaches. (Who is more deserving of a check: those who pay taxes or those who need money?) But there is little question that Mr. Bush's approach should lead to less consumer spending than Mr. Ford's. Wealthy people simply spend a smaller portion of their income than others do.

STAYING POWER? -- When Americans consider a tax cut to be temporary, they spend less of it than they do if the cut is permanent, according to a study by Alan Blinder, a Princeton economist. The rebates of a quarter-century ago were part of a law originally set to last one year. The cuts in the new law are scheduled to last nine years. If people equate that with permanence, they may see the rebates as a down payment on future income, Mr. Blinder said, and spend more of them than they did in 1975.

INFLATION -- In the mid-1970's, inflation was running at an annual rate of about 9 percent, and people could reasonably expect that saved money would be worth a lot less in the future than it was on the day they received it. Today, inflation is about 3 percent.
This difference could explain why 46 percent of Americans said they planned to spend their rebate in 1975, according to one poll at the time. Recent surveys have found that 20 percent to 30 percent of people expect to spend most of their rebates.
Combined, the differences between the two rebates suggest that Americans will spend a smaller portion this year than they did 26 years ago. That could mean that economic growth will remain sluggish -- and that the optimism of most analysts could end up having the same staying power as bell-bottoms and the Red Sox usually do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); POOR POPULATION (79%); BASEBALL (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); RECESSION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INCOME TAX (74%); MARRIAGE (60%); SALES REBATES (57%) TAXATION; REBATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



615 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Suddenly, Less Plaid Is More for Burberry's Chief

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
RADIATING all the energy of an elegant exclamation point, Rose Marie Bravo, clad in a slim red coat and tartan scarf, strode into Burberry's flagship store here recently and surveyed the new fall collection.
 Save for an item or two, the Burberry plaid was nowhere in sight. Instead, black safari jackets and crisp white shirts lined the walls with almost military precision. 
 "It takes time to develop an identity, but we are getting there," said Ms. Bravo, Burberry's chief executive and the architect of its revival. 
After a dizzying year in which its iconic pattern was in demand by celebrities, socialites and everyday shoppers alike, Ms. Bravo -- who is in her late 40's, but declines to be more specific -- is poised to reinvent Burberry again, this time in a more sophisticated incarnation, dependent neither on its playful patterns nor on Kate Moss wearing one of its bikinis.
The path to maturity is never easy for a company whose fortunes are tied to fashion whims, but several factors make Burberry's growing pains particularly acute.
With its signature plaid at risk of becoming last year's fad, Burberry is more reliant than ever on the stylishness of its clothes -- yet its head designer has just left. Slowing economies have depressed sales of luxury goods, making it more difficult for Burberry to maintain the heady growth of the last fiscal year. And wobbly stock markets have cast uncertainty on the timing of an initial public offering of Burberry shares by its parent company, Great Universal Stores, even as a costly expansion requires cash.
"The challenge for Burberry is to move from being a niche company with one or two distinctive looks like the plaid or the trench coat to a more genuinely international brand on the same level as Gucci or LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton," said David Jeary, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston.
More than a year ago, in step with a broader fashion trend in which logos became bigger and bolder, Ms. Bravo bumped up the Burberry plaid, splashing it on everything from bandannas to babies' booties.
But now some people wonder whether Ms. Bravo took the tartan too far.
"I don't want to look at it any more," said Pat Tunsky, creative director with Doneger Group, a New York fashion consulting firm.
It is not just industry insiders who were turned off. "I liked Burberry until it became fashionable to wear a G-string with a Burberry check," said Stephanie Epiro, of the online dating service Woowho in London. 
Burberry is pulling back quickly to what Ms. Bravo calls "check under cover."
"You will have to hunt for it," she said, under a collar, or inside a coat.
Accompanying the new look is an advertising campaign with tongue-in-cheek photographs of models juxtaposed against British icons, like Ms. Moss topless, save for a striped -- not plaid -- scarf, beside a bobby.
Burberry is making the leap under the leadership of an unproven designer. Roberto Menichetti, who is credited with putting the company back on the fashion map, left to spend more time with his family's clothes manufacturing business in Italy and was replaced in April by Christopher Bailey, plucked from Gucci's ranks.
Even though Mr. Menichetti confined his designs to the top-line Prorsum label, while two other Burberry designers, Mike McGrath and Deborah Lloyd, were responsible for commercial hits, Mr. Menichetti's work won raves from the fashion elite.
"I was a big fan of Roberto," said Julie Gilhart, vice president for fashion merchandising at Barneys New York. "I don't know Chris."
Ms. Bravo said Burberry needed a designer who would devote more time to all the lines, "giving the feeling of one hand guiding the brand."
Creating an identity is more important now that Burberry, having put its house in order in its core European and Asian markets, is turning to the United States.
Only one-fifth of Burberry's sales come from the United States, compared with two-thirds from Europe, while the split for other luxury-goods companies is more even, said Sagra Maceira de Rosen, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Chase. "Expanding in the U.S. would be very important for Burberry," Mrs. de Rosen said. "It is a large market, but underpenetrated by luxury goods."
In New York, Burberry plans to expand its flagship store on East 57th Street in Manhattan, doubling its size. (During construction this summer, it will move temporarily to the site of the old Henri Bendel store on West 57th Street.) It will open its first store in Beverly Hills and refurbish several other stores, including one on Michigan Avenue in Chicago. It is also opening smaller stores in several upscale malls, including the Westchester in White Plains, combined with a push for larger boutiques in department stores like Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue. 
Opening even one large store can cost several million dollars -- David Tyler, Burberry's finance director, declined to say how many millions -- and the aggressive expansion is expected to eat into profits.
That means Burberry's stupendous growth in the fiscal year that ended March 31, when profits tripled to $:69.5 million ($98 million), on sales that nearly doubled to $:425 million, is unlikely to be repeated.
Credit Suisse forecasts a 12 percent increase in profits, to $:78 million, for the current fiscal year, on sales that are expected to rise about 16 percent, to $:495 million.
All of this casts uncertainty over a planned initial offering of as many as a quarter of Burberry's shares. Some analysts and investment bankers had expected Burberry to strike while its popularity was rising, selling shares no later than December, but rocky capital markets now make the timing unclear, they say.
Mr. Tyler said that no date had been set, but that Burberry was sticking to its plan to go public within a year. Mr. Jeary, the Credit Suisse analyst, said, "The big issue as far as the flotation is whether the brand continues the success of the past year."
Burberry has fallen in and out of fashion many times in its 145-year history. Originally known for its rugged fabrics -- its founder, Thomas Burberry, is credited with inventing gabardine, and for outfitting three expeditions to the South Pole -- Burberry became a luxury brand associated with the nostalgia of the British colonial empire.
Great Universal, a British company that runs a home-shopping network and other businesses, bought Burberry in 1955 and let it coast on its reputation, not investing in new designs, marketing or infrastructure.
When Ms. Bravo took over in 1997, distribution was a mess. Burberry had little control over where its products were sold or how they were displayed. Asia had become its biggest market, but most of those sales and profits went to licensing partners. Then the Asian economic meltdown hit all luxury-goods makers, but few as hard as Burberry.
Ms. Bravo weeded out some retailers and sold only to the most exclusive stores. She increased sales and profits by buying Burberry's Spanish licensee and by renegotiating contracts in Japan, a strategy she intends to repeat when the remainder of Burberry's Asian licenses come up for renewal in December.
Some of Burberry's biggest successes were more a happy accident than a planned strategy. An offhand suggestion by Anna Wintour, the editor of Vogue, that Burberry make a bikini spawned a swimwear line. A pregnant Stella Tennant, a Burberry model, inspired a baby collection. And on impulse, Ms. Bravo suggested stocking a plaid pump worn by Ms. Moss in an advertisement, even though Burberry did not sell shoes at the time. Known simply as the Kate Shoe, it created a frenzy, and led to a line of Burberry boots.
MS. BRAVO, known for her tenacity in business and keen fashion instinct, cut her teeth at the old Abraham & Straus, and went on to become chief executive of I. Magnin. As president of Saks Fifth Avenue from 1992 to 1997, she is credited with revitalizing the store chain, which had become stodgy, by giving exposure to fresh young designers like Alexander McQueen and Julian Macdonald.
Ms. Bravo would often rise for 5 a.m. jogs on business trips, some of her staff in tow, recalled Nicole Fischelis, fashion director at Saks at the time. A stickler for detail, Ms. Bravo would keep several jackets in the trunk of her car, donning an Armani for a meeting with Giorgio, or a Prada for one with Miuccia, Mrs. Fischelis said.
Domenico De Sole, chief executive of Gucci, said Ms. Bravo was one of the few executives to give him a chance in 1994, when his company was on the verge of bankruptcy. "People were worried that we wouldn't be able to deliver the product," he said. "But Rose Marie was one of the first to understand what we were doing."
Now industry executives are comparing Burberry's turnaround with the resurgence of Gucci. Asked if the comparison unsettled her, Ms. Bravo clasped her hands and rolled her eyes heavenward in mock prayer, saying, "It should only happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "It takes time to develop an identity, but we are getting there," said Burberry's chief executive, Rose Marie Bravo, at a London shop. (Carlos Lopez-Barillas for the New York Times) Chart: "Fashion Forward"While Burberry has bounced back strongly, its sales growth is expected to slow in coming years. One of its goals is to move past its dependence on Europe and make a bigger splash in the United States. Graph shows SALES IN MILLIONS for the year ending March from 1996-2003 (estimates). Graph: "WHERE LUXURY GOODS ARE SOLD" BurberryEUROPE: 61%AMERICAS: 21%OTHER: 18% ArmaniEUROPE: 46AMERICAS: 34OTHER: 20 PradaEUROPE: 45AMERICAS: 22OTHER: 33 Gucci GroupEUROPE: 39AMERICAS: 24OTHER: 37 HermesEUROPE: 39AMERICAS: 17OTHER: 44 BulgariEUROPE: 37AMERICAS: 23OTHER: 40 LVMH GroupEUROPE: 34AMERICAS: 26OTHER: 40 FerragamoEUROPE: 29AMERICAS: 45OTHER: 26 (Source: Credit Suisse First Boston; J.P. Morgan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); LUXURY GOODS (86%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (72%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); DATING SERVICES (50%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (50%) APPAREL; SALES; FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: BURBERRY GROUP PLC (92%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (83%); GREAT UNIVERSAL STORES PLC (54%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GREAT UNIVERSAL STORES PLC; BURBERRY (APPAREL CHAIN) 

TICKER: BRBY (LSE) (92%); MC (PAR) (83%); LVMH (BIT) (83%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (83%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%)

PERSON: KATE MOSS (52%) BRAVO, ROSE MARIE; KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (84%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



616 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Derwood S. Chase Jr. And David B. Scott; 
Chase Growth Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
DON'T confuse the global megabank Chase Manhattan with the Chase Investment Counsel Corporation in Charlottesville, Va., investment adviser to the $36 million Chase Growth fund.
 "We've always tried very hard to point out that we're not a Chase bank fund," Derwood S. Chase Jr., the president and chief investment officer of Chase Investment, who works with David B. Scott in managing the fund. 
 The Chase confusion has diminished, now that the mutual funds of the big Manhattan bank are being sold under the J. P. Morgan label. (Chase Manhattan merged with Morgan last year to become J. P. Morgan Chase.) But the tiny Chase Growth fund marches on, and its performance has been outstanding relative to the market and its peer group of funds. 
The fund returned 12.7 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 5.3 percent for its large-growth fund category and 5.3 percent for Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. The portfolio lost 5.2 percent in the last 12 months, compared with losses of 30.7 percent for its group and 5 percent for the S.& P. 500.
Mr. Chase, 70, and Mr. Scott, 46, the fund's senior portfolio manager, describe themselves as stock pickers who look for growth at a reasonable price. They combine fundamental, quantitative and technical research -- the same process they use to manage $1 billion in institutional and individual accounts for Chase Investment Counsel.
The managers start by screening about 5,000 domestic stocks with market capitalizations of more than $500 million, searching for consistent earnings growth. They look for annual average earnings growth of at least 10 percent for 4 of the last 5 years and 7 of the last 10. That brings down their list of companies to about 600. Then they conduct a series of tests, looking for return on equity of at least 15 percent, a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 50 percent and substantial reinvestment of earnings.
The 40 to 60 companies that pass all the screens become "buy" candidates. Two senior analysts review the data and pore over balance sheets.
"We want to see that cash-flow returns are still strong after the balance sheet is adjusted for noncash items like depreciation, good will and amortization," Mr. Chase said.
They do on-site research of companies, too, looking for evidence that suggests strong fundamentals and rising stock prices.
THE managers like the Sysco Corporation of Houston, the big distributor of food and paper products to restaurants and institutions.
Sysco derives 65 percent of its revenue from the restaurant business, and it is gaining market share among hospitals and hotels and in other markets, Mr. Chase said. "It generally does well whether the economy is doing well or not," he said.
Its earnings growth has averaged 17 percent annually for the last five years, compared with 8 to 12 percent for most food, beverage and food products companies. He expects the company's earnings to grow 21 percent a year, on average, over the next three to five years.
The managers originally bought shares at $20 in December 1999. The stock closed on Friday at $28.43; the managers' 12-month target price is $35.
Another favorite is Boeing, which is aiming to diversify beyond its core business of aircraft manufacturing. The company's earnings have grown 20 percent a year over the last five years, Mr. Scott said, well above its competitors in the aerospace and aircraft industry.
Boeing is aiming to build the Sonic Cruiser, a jet that would fly at just below the speed of sound, and is adding variations of existing models, he said. It recently announced advanced research and initial production on a satellite to direct aircraft for landing and takeoff, supplementing or replacing the radar systems currently used by the Federal Aviation Administration.
The managers originally bought shares in March at $61.50. They closed on Friday at $57; their target price is $75.
A new holding is Calpine Corporation of San Jose, Calif., which develops and operates power plants. As demand for power surges in California and elsewhere, Calpine is building plants in markets where none have been built for years. Mr. Scott expects earnings to grow an average of 32 percent a year over the next three to five years.
The fund bought the stock at $51 in April. It now trades at $37.70, compared with the managers' target price of $64.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In their fund, Derwood S. Chase Jr., left, and David B. Scott seek companies with consistent earnings growth. (Wayne Scarberry for The New York Times) Chart: "Chase Growth Fund" Category: Large growthNet assets: $36 millionInception: December 1997Managers: Derwood S. Chase Jr. and David B. Scott since inceptionMinimum purchase: $2,000 (I.R.A. $2,000)Portfolio turnover: 74%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 12.7%Category average: 5.3% SECTOR BREAKDOWN Conglomerates: 8%Financial services: 6%Energy: 5%Computer software/services: 5%Leisure: 4%Other: 72% FEES Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.48% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT ADVISERS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CASH FLOW (74%); LODGING (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (68%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: CHASE INVESTMENT COUNSEL CORP (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); SYSCO CORP (80%)

ORGANIZATION: CHASE INVESTMENT COUNSEL CORP 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); SYY (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (80%); NAICS424420 PACKAGED FROZEN FOOD MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (80%); NAICS424130 INDUSTRIAL & PERSONAL SERVICE PAPER MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (80%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; CHASE, DERWOOD S JR; SCOTT, DAVID B 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



617 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: A Fast Track for Mexico 

BYLINE:  By Fernando Margain and Walter Russell Mead; Fernando Margain, from the National Action Party, is chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee of the Mexican Senate. Walter Russell Mead is senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
It is Mexico's turn for an economic miracle. After World War II it took less than a generation for Western Europe and Japan to go from poverty to affluence. Later came transformations in Spain, Portugal, Ireland, South Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. Mexico, with 100 million citizens impatient for social and economic progress, can be next -- if its partners in the North American Free Trade Agreement adopt a strategy to help.
 Mexico has made radical political and economic changes over the past 20 years, reducing tariffs, privatizing industries and opening its electoral system. Since Nafta took effect in 1994, Mexico's annual exports to the United States have gone from $51 billion to $120 billion but wages in Mexico, adjusted for inflation, have fallen 15 percent. The gap between Mexico's impoverished South and relatively prosperous North has grown. 
 As Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, frequently points out, 51 percent of Mexicans live in poverty, and 17.9 million, including the great majority of Mexico's Indians, live in severe poverty, on less than $2 a day. If Mexico is to become a truly modern society, more of its citizens must become part of the middle class. Such a transformation would also help Mexico's Nafta partners, the United States and Canada, by making Mexicans better customers and reducing the pressure of migrants seeking work in richer countries to the north.
The Nafta nations should learn from the example of the European Union. Worried that migrants from Spain, Portugal and Ireland would flood into the richer E.U. nations, the union provided loans and grants for large-scale development and public works programs to create jobs for these workers in their own countries.
In North America, a similar strategy could work. Public agencies with equal representation from all three Nafta countries could be created to borrow money cheaply, with loans backed by the governments, to finance large public works projects across Mexico like highways, with money set aside for environmental cleanup. A three-country panel could ensure that projects complied with environmental and fair labor standards.
The Nafta partners, in helping Mexico, should also move toward a regional approach to energy. Mexico's Constitution now limits foreign participation in its energy industry. But in the context of a deeper Nafta partnership, Mexico might be persuaded to end this limitation as part of a broader plan for developing North America's energy reserves. There is already interdependence; Mexico provides 12 percent of American petroleum imports and is a net importer from the United States of refined petroleum products. Both countries would benefit from creation of more pipelines and electrical lines to carry energy north from Mexico.
Gradual, measured steps to create open borders should also be part of a new Nafta relationship. American citizens are concerned about illegal migration while Mexicans see border issues as partly about economics but also about human rights. More than 400 people die every year trying to enter the United States from Mexico. The best long-term solution is economic development that raises wages and creates new jobs in Mexico. In the near term, allowing an expanded flow of seasonal and guest workers would improve conditions on both sides of the border.
In the long term, we will need a more creative approach to migration. More than 100 million Americans and about 12 million Canadians will turn 65 in the next 30 years. Why not make it easier for these people to retire to Mexico, where the weather is warm and living costs are low? An agreement allowing retired citizens from all three Nafta countries to live freely in all of them -- and United States legislation letting Medicare benefits be used in other Nafta countries -- could open the border to a new kind of migrant and help create jobs in Mexico to serve this new population. 
With commitment from its Nafta partners, Mexico can become an advanced industrial democracy within a generation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (61%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (58%) MARGAIN, FERNANDO (SEN); MEAD, WALTER RUSSELL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); EUROPE (93%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); PORTUGAL (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%) MEXICO

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



618 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Reality Check; 
Will Patients' Rights Fix the Wrongs?

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN; Michael M. Weinstein is a former economics columnist and editorial writer for The New York Times who specialized in health-care issues. He is now a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
HOVERING above last week's Senate debate over the so-called patients' bill of rights was an unspoken question: was all the speechmaking really just a smokescreen that obscures the truly tough health care problems facing the country?
 Democrats said the Republican bill would maroon patients with managed-care plans that would deny lifesaving medical procedures. Republicans countered that the Democrats were hawking a "trial lawyers bill" that would encourage frivolous lawsuits, driving up costs and making coverage unaffordable for millions of Americans. President Bush vowed to veto the Democratic bill. 
 On key points, however, the two bills are nearly identical. Indeed, a co-sponsor of the Republican bill conceded that he would "not lose sleep" if the Democrat version passed. 
The more profound question is whether the Senate debate is a sideshow. The legislation being considered would fail to reach the roughly 40 million Americans without insurance, as well as the 15 million others, many chronically ill, who buy stripped-down coverage at exorbitant prices because they can't buy coverage through an employer. Even among those who would be affected, the actual number of complaints about health-plan denials of medical treatment remains tiny. 
But the real crisis in health care, say many health experts, lies not with care denied, but with the quality of the care that's given. 
"The biggest threat to life and limb," said Michael L. Millenson, a health expert with the human resources consulting firm William M. Mercer, comes from "what happens to you once you reach the doctor's office or hospital."
The bills that were debated last week in Washington have little to do with that. Instead, they focus on giving patients the right to sue for damages when their health plan denies coverage for necessary treatments. 
A quirk in federal law currently immunizes many employer-based health plans from major lawsuits when they refuse to pay for what patients believe to be medically necessary care. Public pressure has been mounting for Congress to eliminate the exemption, and federal courts have already begun to chip away at it. 
Republicans and Demnocrats propose essentially the same solution: mandatory external review. 
Patients whose health plans refuse to pay for what they believe is necessary care would be first required to take their case before independent medical experts. Under the Democrats' bill, patients could then go to court to overturn the experts' findings. Under the Republican bill, patients could seek tort damages only if they won their case before the external reviewers.
The theory is that external review will give patients a fair hearing and wipe out the need for most litigation. The experience of states in which mandatory external review has been tried, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, confirms these expectations. When the external review sides with the patient, the plans almost always back down, unwilling to bear the legal risk of continuing to deny coverage for the disputed treatment. When the external review sides with the health plan, few patients, or their lawyers, waste time and money by going before a jury to argue against a plan that has won approval from independent physicians.
The bills also include similar consumer protections. Each guarantees patients access to emergency rooms, specialists, clinical trials and pharmaceutical drugs. 
There are some differences, however. The Democrats' bill would subject plans to more regulations and more litigation, including in state courts, with a threat of substantially higher monetary damages. The Democrats would also more readily impose new federal rules on states with weaker consumer protections. But few of these differences rise to the level of important principle.
THE more vexing concern is whether the attention being lavished on patients' bills of rights is out of proportion to the impact. After all, the number of people who are likely to take advantage of external review is minute. Medicare already offers external review for its 40 million enrollees. So do dozens of states, though federal law does not allow states to impose external review on plans that cover the employees of most large companies. 
The Kaiser Family Foundation has found that there are fewer than 2 external reviews each year for every 1,000 Medicare enrollees. In Pennsylvania there were fewer than 200 external reviews in 1997 among 5 million eligible enrollees. In Maryland, 255 cases from a pool of about 3.5 million enrollees were adjudicated last year under the state's external review system. In 120 cases, the plans backed down before settlements were reached. The patients won about half the remaining cases -- so fewer than 70 people won relief from their health plans. 
Despite the small numbers, mandatory external review can yield tangible benefits. Dr. Michael A. Stocker, chief executive of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, says external review, which the plan adopted before the New York State legislature made it mandatory in 1999, has helped to cut litigation. And few would argue that all patients benefit from the knowledge that they have a right, if needed, to impartial dispute resolution. 
Dr. Lucian L. Leape, a professor at the Harvard University School of Public Health and the co-author of two major reports on health-care quality from the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, said that given the fact that only a few cases go to external review, patients' rights legislation is "unlikely to lead to dire consequences. But," he added, " neither is it likely to improve health outcomes very much." 
To truly improve the quality of medical care, Washington needs to look in a different direction, says Dr. Leape. The scandalous fact about American health care, he and other experts have noted, is how little of what physicians do is backed by careful scientific evidence. A committee of the Institute of Medicine concluded this year that the nation's health-care system is a "tangled, highly fragmented web that often wastes resources by providing unnecessary services and duplicating efforts, leaving unaccountable gaps in care and failing to build on the strength of all health professionals." The panel called for reorganization and reform to fix "a disjointed and inefficient system."
Dr. Leape and other experts estimate that perhaps 20 percent to 30 percent of medical procedures are wrongly prescribed. And a 1999 report from the institute showed that hospitals lack basic systems to catch errors before they kill or maim patients, leading to as many as 100,000 deaths each year from preventable errors. 
Fewer than half of all Medicare patients who suffer heart attacks receive proper drugs. This shortfall cannot be attributed to penny-pinching bureaucrats at for-profit health plans, because Medicare is, after all, largely fee-for-service.
DR. LEAPE'S solution to America's health care woes includes widespread adoption of information technology to reduce errors, including computerized patients records and electronic ordering of pharmaceutical drugs. He also wants hospitals to identify and retrain substandard physicians before they harm patients. Many health-care experts want to collect and publish information on the quality of hospital and physician performance, arming patients with the information they need to decide where to be treated. 
Patients' rights, along the lines debated in Congress, does not rank near the top of the experts' lists. Mr. Millenson speaks for many in the health-care field when he says: "I'm all for holding health plans accountable for their actions. But if we truly care about patients' rights, we need to hold doctors and hospitals at least equally accountable."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Elliott Banfield) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (85%); LEGISLATION (78%); TORT REFORM (78%); VETO (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TORTS (76%); DAMAGES (76%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



619 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Breadline, What Breadline?

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
THIS month, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the nation's unemployment rate had fallen slightly in May, to 4.4 percent. The decline was the first in nine months, and with many stocks rising again, it suggested that the economic slowdown of 2001 might be near its end. 
 But that measure was almost the only labor-market gauge to improve in May. Fewer people held jobs than in April. More people applied for unemployment insurance. A greater percentage of those without jobs had been fired or laid off rather than had quit. And a larger number of people who wanted full-time work could find only part-time work. 
 "Fewer people are working, but it looks like good news," said Alexander Keyssar, a historian at Duke. "It really doesn't make sense."
The unemployment rate is the single most widely followed measure of the American people's economic health. The government publishes it on the first Friday of each month, and it immediately assumes a status of unassailable truth.
But the history of this sacrosanct number is as much about politics as about statistics, and at a time when joblessness is rising, the history has a new relevance.
In the 1870's, an economic downturn was throwing people out of work. According to one estimate, three million workers were unemployed.
Carroll D. Wright, the head of the Massachusetts Bureau of Statistics of Labor in 1878, did not believe it. The three-million figure was "reckless," he said, a "wild guess." Partly to disprove it, Wright undertook the first recorded study of unemployment in the United States. He found that fewer than 30,000 people were unemployed in Massachusetts, about one-tenth of what the doomsayers -- or "croakers," as he called them -- were claiming.
"We have given the croaker the benefit of every doubt," Wright wrote, according to "Out of Work," a history of joblessness by Mr. Keyssar. An "intelligent canvass," based on the facts, had shown the croakers to be wrong, claimed Wright.
The canvass may have been intelligent, but it also defined unemployment in the narrowest way possible. People whom the police judged to be uninterested in work were excluded, according to Mr. Keyssar. The result, as even Wright acknowledged, was that a "large percentage" of people without jobs were not counted. 
Almost 125 years later, the methods and views of Wright, who became the first chief of the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, still determine how unemployment in America is measured. 
Today, only people who are without a job and have actively looked for work in the last four weeks are considered unemployed. Those who have stopped looking -- because they have given up, for example -- fall into the same category as children or retirees. They are not part of the labor force.
The result is that, in a typical month, about five million Americans who are without a job and say they want one are not counted as unemployed. Were they included, the unemployment rate would double. 
The government once used a more inclusive measure. About a century ago the Census Bureau began tallying the number of Americans who had been out of work at some point in the previous six months or year. But after a few decades, policy makers opted for a system that produced a smaller number.
This preference for rosier data sums up the conflicted attitude that the United States, and virtually all free-market societies, hold toward joblessness. On the one hand, governments habitually say they're on the side of the worker. On the other hand, the presence of a pool of unemployed labor has long been considered a necessary part of an efficient market economy. It is the natural result of some companies failing while others succeed. 
Economic circumstances have usually determined which attitude dominates. During the Depression, the United States spent huge sums on public works to keep people employed. Then, at the close of World War II, concern that a wave of returning soldiers would flood the labor market led Congress to pass the Full Employment Act. (They later dropped the "Full." ) The bill declared that creating "useful employment opportunities" was "the continuing policy and responsibility of the federal government," according to "Unemployment in History," by John A. Garraty, an emeritus professor of history at Columbia.
 BUT after the "stagflation" of the 1970's, when unemployment and inflation rose simultaneously, economists and politicians began to rethink the idea that government should help find people work or underwrite their joblessness. The free-market policies of a century earlier returned. State governments paid benefits to a smaller portion of the unemployed than before; labor unions lost key court cases; and eventually, a Democratic president and a Republican Congress limited the amount of time in which those without jobs could receive welfare payments. 
In recent months, unemployment has fallen to its lowest level in three decades. Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, frets about the inflationary effect, should it fall further, and yet few complain that he is indifferent to the average worker, noted Gary Gerstle, a professor of American history at the University of Maryland.
"The United States has been enormously successful in lowering the unemployment rate through efforts to strengthen the market, rather than regulate it," he said. As a result, "concerns about unemployment are secondary to concerns about the stock market." 
This victory over widespread joblessness would seem more assured, however, if it did not rest in part on the government's incomplete statistics. In May, 6.2 million Americans were counted as unemployed, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics' seasonally adjusted numbers. Another 5.2 million wanted work but had not actively searched for it in the four weeks before the survey. And 3.4 million people held part-time jobs because they could not find full-time work. If the government were to include all these groups, the current jobless rate would be 9.9 percent, instead of the official 4.4 percent.
Most economists expect unemployment -- both the rate and the real thing -- to increase in the coming months. That is precisely the time, Mr. Keyssar said, that people may want more information about the job market than government's definition of unemployment provides.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the winter of 1932-33, the heart of the Great Depression, men line up for a free meal in New York City. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); HISTORY (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



620 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Economic Anxiety Among the Affluent

BYLINE:  By Vivian Marino

 BODY:
The economic slowdown and stock market volatility have made many Americans nervous about their finances, and survey results released last week show that even the nation's most affluent people are a little jittery.
 In a sampling of affluent Americans, 70 percent said they thought that stock market gains would now be lower than in recent years, and a nearly identical percentage expressed concern that the next generation would have a more difficult time financially than they did. 
 Almost all -- 92 percent of the 151 people questioned -- said their investment portfolios had declined in value since the middle of last year. On average, they said, their stocks and stock funds lost 13 percent during the first four months of this year.
But they are not panicking, said Jeffrey S. Maurer, chief executive of the U.S. Trust Corporation, the wealth management company in New York that conducted the survey. "Although they are clearly more nervous about the short term," Mr. Maurer said, "they seem to understand, correctly, that investing is a long-term proposition." Fifty-seven percent of those surveyed had no plans for changes in their portfolios.
The survey defined affluent Americans as having annual household income of at least $300,000. Vivian Marino


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); AFFLUENT MARKET (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: U S TRUST BANK OF AMERICA PRIVATE WEALTH MANAGEMENT (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



621 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 210 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Rate-Cut Hopes Overpower Profit Worries

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
Despite new warnings about corporate earnings shortfalls and reports showing that the economy remains weak, many stocks ended the week modestly higher, buoyed by expectations that the Federal Reserve will cut interest rates when it meets this week. 
 On the down side, first-time jobless claims remained near their recent highs while the trade deficit narrowed, mostly because of slackening consumer demand. 
 But there were positive surprises. The Oracle Corporation said it would beat expectations for the second quarter. And tobacco stocks got a lift after the government said it was open to negotiating a settlement in its longstanding lawsuit against tobacco companies.
 The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose slightly, finishing at 1,225.35, up 10.99 points, or 0.9 percent. The Nasdaq composite also edged higher, to 2,034.84, up 6.41 points, or 0.3 percent. Only the Dow industrials fell, finishing at 10,604.59, down 19.05, or 0.2 percent. 
 In the bond markets, comments by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, that inflation remains moderate lifted expectations for a half-point cut in interest rates. Bond prices surged, with the yield on the 10-year note falling to 5.12 percent from 5.24 percent the previous week. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS" VerityNNM: VRTYThe maker of search-engine software for corporate Web sites said it expects to earn 11 cents to 14 cents a share in its fiscal first quarter, less than the 23 cents expected by analysts.Friday's Close: $18.20Week's Change: -8.22%EST. '01 P/E: 11.52 IBPNYSE: IBPTyson Foods, the nation's largest poultry producer, renewed talks to acquire IBP, the giant beef processor. A Delaware judge had ruled that Tyson must complete the $3.2 billion deal.Friday's Close: $23.56Week's Change: +28.95%EST. '01 P/E: 15.65 OracleNNM: ORCLThe company said its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings slightly exceeded analysts' expectations, even though revenue from licensing its software had dropped off.Friday's Close: $17.48Week's Change: +16.53%EST. '01 P/E: 34.82 BiogenNYSE: BGENBiogen and a rival, Genentech, are at the head of a pack of biotechnology companies developing new treatments for psoriasis, a skin disease that afflicts seven million Americans.Friday's Close: $59.87Week's Change: -7.79%EST. '01 P/E: 31.54 Computer AssociatesNYSE: CASam Wyly, a Texas billionaire, plans to begin a proxy fight to take control of the software company.Friday's Close: $31.85Week's Change: -2.00%EST. '01 P/E: 16.00 TellabsNYSE: TLABTellabs, which makes equipment used to manage telephone traffic, warned that it would barely break even in the second quarter.Friday's Close: $17.63Week's Change: -28.07%EST. '01 P/E: 41.68 Schering-PloughNYSE: SGPThe Food and Drug Administration held back the company's allergy drug Clarinex for approval after an inspection report showed manufacturing problems at two of its plants.Friday's Close: $37.90Week's Change: -5.37%EST. '01 P/E: 23.18 Northrop GrummanNYSE: NOCThe military contractor extended its tender offer for shares of Newport News Shipbuilding after the Justice Department requested additional information about the proposed $2.1 billion takeover.Friday's Close: $78.34Week's Change: -8.22%EST. '01 P/E: 11.52 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); LITIGATION (69%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (59%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (72%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



622 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: How Pipeline And Landscape Live Together 

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

DATELINE: FAIRBANKS, Alaska 

 BODY:
Just as the United States is now debating the trade-offs between energy and the environment, particularly in Alaska, a generation ago a similar debate was focused on the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. Ferocious claims were made by proponents and opponents alike. 
 A photographer's journey along the pipeline, from end to end, suggests that the starkest fears of ecological devastation have not come to pass. And yet, just as the current debate over drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge centers on the value of leaving a wilderness alone, the pipeline offers a powerful glimpse into a wilderness touched. 
 Eight hundred miles long, 48 inches in diameter, stretching across the Arctic tundra, over (or under) more than 800 rivers and streams, and through three mountain ranges, the pipeline bisects the nation's biggest state. Even the critics who wish it had never been built agree that its construction, in the 1970's, was an epic feat of engineering, one that employed 28,000 men and women at the peak of construction and claimed 31 lives. 
For the Trans-Alaska Pipeline has definitely become a part of the landscape. Its beauty, or its decided lack of beauty, is in the eye of the beholder. Those in the oil industry, and many of the tourists who come to marvel at it, say the pipeline blends in with the scenery, so much so that grizzly bears romp around it in the north and seals sun near it at Valdez. Vice President George Bush memorably observed in 1988 that some caribou even like to "snuggle up next to the pipeline." Other people, of course, see an eyesore, an ugly gash by the hand of man across a magnificent natural landscape. 
Since the first drop of crude in 1977, more than 13 billion barrels of North Slope oil have traveled from Prudhoe Bay in the far north to the southern terminus at Valdez. Oil transformed the Alaskan economy. It provides 85 percent of the state budget and is the basis of the state's optimistically named Permanent Fund, whose dividends are parceled out annually: last fall, every man, woman and child in Alaska received a check for $1,963.86. 
Now nearing its 25th anniversary, the pipeline is delivering oil at only half the peak rate, reached in the late 1980's, of two million barrels a day. Alaskans tend strongly to favor President Bush's proposal to open the Arctic refuge to drilling as a way to continue the bonanza. 
And they enthusiastically support plans for another pipeline, to deliver the huge natural gas reserves locked in the Arctic. This one could parallel the oil pipeline for much of the way, then divert east to Canada and south to the lower 48 states, running longer than the Great Wall of China. 
Environmentalists say that as the oil pipeline ages, its corrosion will make it increasingly susceptible to leaks and other damage. A spokesman for the Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, which operates it and is jointly owned by the six oil companies that send the oil from the north, says: "The pipeline is not infallible, it is not indestructible. But with proper maintenance, the life of the pipeline is indefinite."
Every inch of the pipeline is monitored by computers, and it shuts down when an unexpected drop in pressure is detected, limiting the size of any spill. Since it opened, 19 spills of 100 barrels or more have been reported, none close in size to Alaska's biggest oil spill. The company once calculated that the amount the pipeline had spilled represented just .0000025 percent of the amount delivered. 
When John McPhee wrote "Coming Into the Country" in 1977, he found Alaskans who were, presciently, much more concerned about what would happen once the oil got to the end of the line. "There is the real problem," Mr. McPhee wrote -- "not the possible spills on land but the spills that could happen in Prince William Sound." Twelve years later, the Exxon Valdez ran aground on Bligh Reef, spilling 260,000 barrels into the sound. 
About 375 miles of the pipeline run underground -- including a four-mile stretch that is refrigerated to prevent the earth above from softening, which could make it harder for caribou herds to cross. The remaining 425 miles are elevated, in part to keep pipes that are warm with the coursing oil from melting the tundra permafrost. It is these elevated sections that seem to stretch on and on when viewed from an airplane, that attract tourists, and that are a perpetual element of the land for Alaskan wildlife to contend with, as these photographs attest.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A PLACE TO FROLIC -- Some people say the pipeline has become just another element of the Alaskan landscape. Brown bear cubs play near the pipeline on the outskirts of Deadhorse.; THE 800-MILE GORILLA -- The Trans-Alaska Pipeline stretches across the Arctic tundra, over (and under) more than 800 rivers and streams, and through three mountain ranges.; FROM A DISTANCE -- Milton Moses, right, a maintenance coordinator for the Alyeska Pipeline Service Company, examining the pipeline from a helicopter. The company conducts weekly surveillance flights to look for holes, leaks, and signs of erosion on the land under the pipeline.; END OF THE LINE -- The East Tank Farm at the port of Valdez, the pipeline's southern terminus. Each tank covers 1.2 acres and can hold up to 510,000 barrels of oil.; SOUTH FROM ALASKA -- Docked at the Valdez Marine Terminal, a tanker prepares to load up on crude oil before a late-night departure for various ports on the West Coast, the final destination of almost all oil from the pipeline.; WHAT WARNING? -- Tourists, like this one near Fairbanks, sometimes use the pipeline to get a better vantage point for taking pictures. (Photographs by MONICA ALMEIDA/The New York Times) Map of Alaska highlighting Trans-Alaska Pipeline: The Alaska pipeline has carried more than 13 billion barrels of oil since 1977.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (76%); WILDLIFE (75%); MOUNTAINS (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); RIVERS (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (68%); BUDGETS (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ALASKA PIPELINE CO (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (92%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (92%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (88%) ALASKA, USA (99%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ARCTIC (94%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



623 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: A Kennedy Readies Herself to Run for Maryland Governor 

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: ANNAPOLIS, Md., June 21 

 BODY:
One by one her male siblings in the Kennedy clan have taken their turn in the spotlight but shown mixed results in the family's endless call to politics. But not Robert F. Kennedy's firstborn, Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, who, in her seventh year as lieutenant governor of Maryland, has worked quietly at grass-roots politics to position herself as the front-runner in the race for governor next year.
 In this possibility, Lieutenant Governor Townsend promises to trump all living Kennedy men for executive bragging rights. But even more, her victory would thrust a different kind of Kennedy into the national arena -- a working mother of four daughters, a scandal-free Kennedy whose style mixes policy wonkery and passion for public service with a wisp of her father's amiability on the stump. 
"When I was growing up, I never dreamed of getting involved in politics; needless to say I had very successful men in my family," Ms. Townsend observed in her statehouse office. "The Kennedy women did not run for public office," she said, sitting near a war bond poster of Joan of Arc, proclaiming "Women of America, Save Your Country." The poster was a gift from her husband, David, a professor who for years has arranged his schedule at St. John's College here so he can be the family homemaker and free time for his wife to politick.
Under such circumstances, the lieutenant governor, a lean, intense 49-year-old who has not yet declared for the Democratic nomination, offers no harsh words for the male chauvinism of her upbringing.
"I try not to resent things; that's a bad emotion," Ms. Townsend said. "A better analysis is to understand that when I was growing up it was not a time when women ran for public office. But the women's movement opened up possibilities for me that I had not seen."
As a girl, she thought of being a nun, she said, but gravitated toward politics, where her father's old advice to the family has become her mantra: "It's only God and angels who are lookers-on. Each of us must get involved."
In seven years, Ms. Townsend has ascended in the state from shaky political neophyte to poll standings that run double digits ahead of most of her male rivals in a state where voters register Democratic almost two to one.
Republicans are having trouble fielding an experienced candidate to run against her. They criticize the lieutenant governor's record as little more than a nurturing of the Kennedy name. But they concede that their best hope to derail her would be a Democratic primary between her and Baltimore's new mayor, Martin O'Malley, who is not expected to run.
"She's more hype than substance," Michael S. Steele, chairman of the state Republican Party, said, stressing that Ms. Townsend has yet to win an election on her own. "She's long on being a Kennedy, and that's all that's there."
Longtime political friends scoff at that.
"Listen, Kathleen wasn't created by some sort of Kennedy organization that runs around and salts the earth with new Kennedys for the dynasty," Adam Walinsky, one of Robert Kennedy's aides, said. Mr. Walinsky has been close to her since she was 16; he attended her father at his deathbed. "Whatever she has in Maryland she had to do all by herself, working enormously hard."
Politicians are particularly aware of the lieutenant governor's role in the 1998 re-election, when she surprised critics by emphatically asserting herself. She became featured more prominently in campaign advertisements after bringing in national campaign specialists to repair the ticket's early image problems. Her political mentor, Gov. Parris N. Glendening, credits her with crucial help in winning another four years.
"The lieutenant governor now finds herself in the right place at the right time with a great name," Herb Smith, political science chairman at Western Maryland University, said. "She's got the clear path to the office. In her early years, insiders treated her like Rodney Dangerfield, no respect. But I think she's shown there's a there there. She has built a very real presence in Maryland with an extensive network within the state and nationally. That's a tough combination to beat."
A sometimes awkward speaker, Ms. Townsend has a style like her father's, showing enthusiasm for plunging into crowds as if as an antidote to shyness. She has worked to nip criticism of her early speaking gaffes. The most celebrated of them -- her proud assertion at a Super Bowl visit that "the team made a football" rather than a touchdown -- is treated lightly by Democratic strategists as hardly harming her with female voters.
With the major portfolios Governor Glendening delegated to her, including economic development, criminal justice and the state police, Ms. Townsend can talk issues in detail and has developed contacts with an array of business and civic leaders. But as the election year approaches, some friends in the public sector are awaiting a stronger definition of her independence.
"The feeling among a number of us is that it will be interesting to see what she will really be like in her own right," said H. Furlong Baldwin, chairman of the Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, who needled the lieutenant governor at a business meeting this week to come out for some popular suburban road construction that Governor Glendening fiercely opposed. "There's a general feeling that since we never knew her as an independently elected person, it's time she starts defining herself as someone who's more than just a loyal lieutenant."
It is clear that Ms. Townsend loves to talk issues as an activist in the Democratic Leadership Council, the party's middle-ground vehicle, which Bill Clinton rode to the White House. The council accommodates her variegated agenda in which she favors gun control, work for welfare and capital punishment.
For years, Ms. Townsend was identified as the only Kennedy ever to lose a general election -- the 1986 race for Congress in suburban Maryland, which she leaped into somewhat quixotically two years after moving to the state.
"If I had not lost that race I wouldn't be lieutenant governor today," she said. In losing, she said, she was inspired by young campaign volunteers to stay in public service as a community program organizer, where she quietly built her reputation. That, her sex and the Kennedy name proved irresistible when Mr. Glendening needed a running mate.
Seventeen months from the chance to win an election on her own, Ms. Townsend seems not at all fazed at being the odds-on favorite to gain a major executive trophy for the Kennedys.
"It's a pretty pleasant position to be in," she said, applying a classic political clubhouse poke of emphasis to her listener's arm. "I intend to be in politics a long time."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lt. Gov. Kathleen Kennedy Townsend of Maryland, above, center, presided at a State House staff meeting. A victory in the state's governor's race could thrust a different kind of Kennedy into the national political arena. (Photographs by Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (75%); WORKING MOTHERS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); MAYORS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MARTIN O'MALLEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (95%); MARYLAND USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



624 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Building Costs For Schools Investigated 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE FLANDERS

 BODY:
The city has begun an investigation into cost overruns on school construction projects by the Board of Education because spending is running about 20 percent over budget in the second year of a five-year, $7 billion capital plan, officials said yesterday. At the current spending rate, there would be a $1.5 billion budget gap by the end of the five years.
 City budget officials believe that only about half of the overspending can be explained by citywide inflation in construction costs. The remainder, they said, is the result of flaws in the board's budgeting procedures, including a tendency to underestimate costs so as to be able to promise more new schools. 
 "It is serious mismanagement and incompetence at the board that has resulted in this shortfall," said Adam L. Barsky, the director of the city's Office of Management and Budget.
Mr. Barsky said that the board had made the city aware of the overspending only in the past two weeks, leading Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's office to request an investigation by the city's auditors, KPMG Peat Marwick. News of the study, which is expected to take several months, was reported yesterday in The New York Post.
Board of Education officials said that the city's Office of Management and Budget had been aware of the overruns for some time and blamed the overruns on rising construction costs.
"This sounds a little like Claude Rains in 'Casablanca' being shocked to find out there's gambling going on," said Anthony Shorris, a deputy chancellor on the board. "There was no secret made of the individual impact of higher construction bids on board projects in our regular meetings with the O.M.B."
Gov. George E. Pataki's special commission on New York city schools is also investigating the board's management of its capital plan, and expects to issue a report on the first two years of the plan at the end of June.
Roslynn Mauskopf, the chairwoman of the commission, said that its preliminary study, which was published in May 2000, had signaled many of the issues now being raised by the city, including a long-running tendency to underestimate construction costs.
"Our report put the board on notice over a year ago that the current capital plan was already going well over budget," Ms. Mauskopf said. "This is not new news." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (91%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: KPMG (82%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (82%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (82%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



625 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Struggling to Carve Out Common Ground, U.N. Tackles AIDS 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 22 

 BODY:
The devastation is not in dispute. Worldwide, 36 million people are estimated to have AIDS or be carrying the virus that causes it. Nearly 22 million have died, many of them children. And new infections gallop on, at the rate of 5 million last year. 
 But trying to forge a consensus for action has exposed fault lines at the United Nations. Starting Monday, 3,000 diplomats, government officials, health experts and members of advocacy groups will gather for three days in the General Assembly to discuss how to cope with a medical catastrophe that has accumulated political baggage since the virus was identified two decades ago. 
The scheduled speakers at the United Nations Special Session on H.I.V./AIDS include two dozen heads of state or government, many from Africa, where the disease has taken its highest toll. The United States will be represented by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and a delegation of more than 40 officials.
"We know what works, we know what to do and the biggest job now is to get resources to get the job done," said Dr. Peter Piot, the executive director of the Joint United Nations Program on H.I.V./AIDS. 
Agreeing on a common strategy is another matter, however. While delegates have struggled over the wording of a formal declaration outlining goals and targets to be issued at the end of the conference, debate continues over whether the resources should be concentrated more on prevention or treatment, on where the money should come from and on how plain-spoken the United Nations message about AIDS should be. 
Some Muslim countries have objected to language in the draft declaration specifying that efforts must be made to help "men who have sex with men, sex workers, injecting drug users and their sexual partners," along with other groups like prisoners, refugees and migrants. "If they cannot even be named in a U.N. document, it's such a reflection of the way they must be treated in the everyday circumstances in their countries," said Joanne Csete, a public health expert at Human Rights Watch. "It's telling that 20 years into this epidemic, we can't even name the vulnerable groups and do something for them."
The United States deputy assistant secretary of state for international organization affairs, E. Michael Southwick, said the draft declaration already included strong language about a commitment to respect human rights and to be mindful of issues affecting the vulnerable. "Considering where the world had been in the last 15 or 20 years, this has been a big advance," he said. Kenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, said, "Countries are bringing an extraneous moral agenda in a way that is detrimental to efforts to combat AIDS. This is not the time or place to allow moral squeamishness to dilute a clear and effective message." 
Mr. Roth and other critics argue that AIDS must be addressed in the context of human rights. The United Nations Development Fund for Women said that nearly half of new H.I.V. infections now occur in women; in sub-Saharan Africa, teenage girls are five times more likely than boys to become infected, with most of the girls contracting AIDS from older men. The fund also wants female and male condoms made more accessible and affordable. 
"As long as we do not address the power relationship, we are not going to address H.I.V./AIDS," said Noeleen Heyzer, executive director of the fund. "Too often, women and girls do not have the power to say no to unwanted and unprotected sex." 
Deputy Secretary General Louise Frechette acknowledged that sticking points exist. "They'll have to find the right words that deal with the realities but do not offend the sensibilities of some cultures," she said. 
"The issues that remain on the table are sensitive issues," Ms. Frechette said. "They relate to cultural issues that are not always easy to handle." 
Secretary General Kofi Annan, who will open the conference on Monday, announced in April the creation of a global fund to finance the fight against AIDS at a cost of $7 billion to $10 billion annually. The United States has pledged $200 million, France $127 million, Britain $100 million and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation $100 million. But this is far too little, say some groups that insist the debt of poor countries be forgiven so those countries can use that money to save lives. 
Advocacy groups also want the United Nations conference to press drug companies to slash the prices of anti-retroviral medications. 
There are other complaints from some nongovernmental organizations about being excluded from taking part in four round-table discussions scheduled on AIDS prevention and care, AIDS and human rights, the disease's social and economic impact and international support and cooperation. One group, the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission, said it was invited to a discussion and then its invitation was withdrawn after some governments objected. 
In the long run, said Ms. Frechette, the deputy secretary general, there is no alternative to cooperation. "Everybody will have to bear in mind that this is a battle that we will be fighting for years to come," she said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday on the global tradeoffs in the fight against AIDS referred incompletely to the multibillion-dollar AIDS fund proposed by the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan. The fund is also intended to address malaria and tuberculosis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); VIRUSES (90%); DISEASE AGENTS & VECTORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); EPIDEMICS (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



626 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Yugoslavs Act On Hague Trial For Milosevic 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 23 

 BODY:
The Yugoslav cabinet adopted a decree today committing itself to sending the former president, Slobodan Milosevic, to the United Nations tribunal in The Hague to face trial on war crimes charges.
 The extradition of Mr. Milosevic could set the stage for a remarkable international trial, in which a one-time national leader who defied the West would stand in the dock accused of a campaign of terror that killed thousands of people in the Balkans. 
 Mr. Milosevic, who was indicted by the tribunal in May 1999 along with four of his top officials for war crimes in the Serbian province of Kosovo, is first on the list for transfer to The Hague, government officials here have suggested. 
The decree takes effect Sunday, and some officials suggested that the former president, already in detention in Belgrade central jail, could be extradited "very soon."
Other officials suggested, however, that it could take until the end of the month, because lawyers and supporters of Mr. Milosevic have promised to challenge the legality of the decree, which conflicts with national laws that forbid the extradition of Yugoslav citizens. 
Still, Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus made clear at a news conference today after the cabinet meeting that the government intended to carry out the measure. 
"There are, I think, 16 indictments, and there will be no bargaining," he said. "The Hague will ask for the transfer and we will respond." 
Beta news agency quoted the Serbian prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, as saying before the vote that Mr. Milosevic's transfer to The Hague "will pass without problems, in regular, public procedures" and that such developments might take "15 to 20 days."
The action today was taken after the government failed this week to garner enough votes to pass a law in the Yugoslav Parliament that would have allowed the extraditions, and it was precipitated by pressure from Western nations to demonstrate that the government was sincere in its cooperation with the tribunal before an international donor conference next week in Brussels. 
The United States has indicated that it will not take part in the conference unless it is satisfied that the Yugoslav government has taken concrete action to cooperate with the tribunal. Without American participation, the Yugoslav government would have difficulty raising the $1 billion it needs to overhaul an economy that is in ruinous shape after 10 years of international sanctions, corrupt rule and regional conflicts.
American officials are to decide by Wednesday whether they will participate in the conference and have indicated that concrete action, namely the transfer of indictees to The Hague, or at least a timetable of planned transfers, would be necessary for them to take part. 
The decree adopted today was a last-ditch attempt to show that the government was committed to cooperating with the tribunal. 
"This is a positive step we will be watching closely," a senior American official said in Washington. "The goal is to see Milosevic extradited so he can be tried for the crimes for which he has been indicted." 
The strongly worded measure, which will go into effect on Sunday once it appears in the official gazette, orders all courts, prosecutors and other state bodies to act urgently on Hague tribunal requests for the handover of those indicted on war crimes charges, and to inform the government of their action within at least three days. It also outlines cooperation with Hague tribunal prosecutors and investigators. 
Mr. Milosevic is wanted for crimes against humanity for the campaign unleashed against the ethnic Albanian population in Kosovo in the spring of 1999, during NATO's air war against Yugoslavia, when thousands of ethnic Albanians were killed and hundreds of thousands were expelled from their homes. 
The Hague tribunal issued an indictment against Mr. Milosevic and four of his close officials in May 1999 while the war was still going on. Since October, when a popular uprising forced Mr. Milosevic out of power and an anti-Milosevic alliance took over, his fate has been in question. 
Yugoslavia's new reformist leaders were nevertheless divided on the issue, and public opinion was firmly against sending Mr. Milosevic to The Hague. President Vojislav Kostunica was opposed to extraditing him and others to the tribunal, which he said was a political court and biased against Serbs. 
Playing for time, Mr. Kostunica insisted on drafting a law to regulate cooperation. But his deputy prime minister, Mr. Labus, an economist who has masterminded a plan of economic reform for the country, threatened to resign if Yugoslavia's international standing with donors and economic institutions was jeopardized. Other ministers criticized the delay, saying a law on cooperation was not necessary.
International pressure, namely the risk of losing United States economic assistance, pushed the authorities to arrest Mr. Milosevic on April 1. Since then, he has been in detention in Belgrade, under investigation for corruption and abuse of power. 
Another case, meanwhile, has been opened linking him to war crimes committed in Kosovo and for allegedly ordering a cover-up of killings of ethnic Albanians. And government officials have started disclosing details of several mass graves in Serbia of ethnic Albanian victims from Kosovo in a clear attempt to prepare the public for the possible extradition of Mr. Milosevic. 
Mr. Kostunica himself appears to have accepted the necessity to cooperate with the tribunal after his meeting in Washington last month with President Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. Still, the government was forced to issue a federal decree through the cabinet, where Mr. Kostunica and his reformists have a majority, after losing its battle with Parliament this week. 
But the move has raised questions about the survival of his Yugoslav government. Mr. Kostunica's partners in the government, former allies of Mr. Milosevic from Serbia's sister republic, Montenegro, refused to support the draft bill, would not vote at the cabinet meeting today and said they were now considering whether to leave the government. 
"A coalition partnership is supposed to mean that decisions are taken by mutual consent and not like this," said Predrag Bulatovic, leader of the Montenegrin Socialists. "It is a difficult decision, but this business with the decree is all highly questionable from a legal stand."
Mr. Milosevic's lawyers and supporters have argued that a decree on cooperation with The Hague is unconstitutional and extradition of Yugoslav citizens remains illegal under current Yugoslav laws.
One of Mr. Milosevic's lawyers, Veselin Cerovic, quoted today by the daily Glas Javnosti, also questioned the constitutionality of the decree, raising the prospect of a legal fight ahead over Mr. Milosevic's transfer.
"With or without a law on the International Criminal Court, there is no clause in the Constitution allowing for the extradition of one of our citizens, regardless of whether it is requested by a state or an international organization," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (93%); INDICTMENTS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (95%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%) NETHERLANDS (95%); SERBIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



627 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Bayonne Journal; 
Members Debate a Legion Hall's Fate

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

DATELINE: BAYONNE, N.J. 

 BODY:
Perhaps it is only fitting that less than two years after an Army base closed here after defining this working-class city for more than half a century, a "for sale" sign went up on the local veterans hall, the Frederick A. Mackenzie American Legion Post No. 165.
 But while the Army base, the Military Ocean Terminal, closed quietly in 1999 after a gradual shutdown, the proposed sale of the American Legion post property on Avenue E has been noisy and anything but a sure thing, "for sale" sign notwithstanding. 
 Once the state's largest American Legion posts, with 1,431 members, the Mackenzie post now has about 600 on its roster and less than a dozen at its regular monthly meetings.
The hall, built in 1948 by local veterans, used to be a hangout for veterans and their families, many of whom later worked around the corner at the marine terminal opened by the Navy in 1942 and taken over later by the Army. 
Over the years, the two-story post became something of a community resource, with a ballroom accommodating 500, bars and meeting rooms. It was a hall for inexpensive weddings and banquets, a room to play bingo, a place where a veteran could just walk in and learn about his benefits, have a nickel beer or a 15-cent whiskey with someone else who had worn the uniform of the United States. 
Now, though, the bars -- as well as the cheap drinks -- are gone, the post has been losing money for five years and a veteran looking for help will usually find only Clayton B. Petty inside. And after 30 years managing the post's day-to-day operations, mostly single-handedly, Mr. Petty, who is 75 and a Navy veteran who worked at the marine base until 1971, wants to retire. But seeing no one clamoring for his job, for which he is paid $28,000 a year, he came up with the idea of putting the place up for sale about three or four months ago.
With Bayonne now connected to Manhattan via a light rail system, Bayonne's real estate prices have been skyrocketing. Some post members believe the property can fetch $2 million to $3 million, and a condominium developer has expressed interest.
The problem is, Mr. Petty contacted a real estate agent and put up a sign before he had approval from the members. And now, the new commander of the post, Joseph Lopez, who is opposed to the sale, has called a general membership meeting to put the matter up for a vote.
"This place serves not only veterans, but also the entire community," said Mr. Lopez, 59 and a Vietnam veteran. "It's an economical place to have functions like weddings and bingos. Where are people going to go if the Mackenzie post is gone?"
The controversy has pitted member against member, with some agreeing that its time has probably passed, and that there is no need for such a large hall. With Mr. Petty wanting to retire, who would run it, they ask. Others say the post would lose stature if it moved to smaller quarters.
But there is also debate over who would receive the proceeds from the sale. Mr. Petty, who is president of the holding company that owns the property, has suggested that its board of directors -- he; Brian Petty, his son; and three other Legion members -- divide 10 percent, for their years of service at the post. The other 90 percent would go to the post itself, to buy smaller quarters or lease a storefront to run the much-reduced operations.
Mr. Lopez, who was installed on Tuesday, said: "A few people got ahead of themselves here. As the new commander, I have to make sure things are done the right way."
When they learned of Mr. Petty's plans, he said, he and the other new officers sent a notice to all 600 members, inviting them to the July 9 meeting to vote on the matter. But he conceded that it was not clear whether the post membership or the holding company had the final word on selling the building or what to do with the proceeds. 
Both sides are consulting lawyers. 
Paul Griffin, the immediate past commander of the post, who is a Korean War veteran and an old friend of Mr. Petty's, said he was trying to stay neutral on the matter. He noted, though, that there was little need for a big banquet hall because the catering business everywhere was on the decline. 
But he said he did not believe selling the property and moving the post would hurt it. "The post will survive no matter where they go," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Clayton B. Petty's idea to put the Frederick A. Mackenzie American Legion Post No. 165 up for sale has stirred debate over its future. (Jeff Zelevansky for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); VETERANS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); NAVIES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); HARBORS & PORTS (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (71%); BEVERAGE PRICES (70%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGION (93%); US NAVY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW JERSEY, USA (74%); NEW YORK, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



628 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 326 words

PERSON: Dr. James H. Sammons 

HEADLINE: J. H. Sammons, 74, Who Helped A.M.A. Through Financial Crisis 

BYLINE:  By ANAHAD O'CONNOR

 BODY:
Dr. James H. Sammons, a former top executive of the American Medical Association who turned the organization around during a financial crisis in the 1980's, died on June 17 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 74. 
 The causes were cancer and a heart ailment, an A.M.A. spokeswoman said. 
 Dr. Sammons was executive vice president of the medical association for 16 years. His appointment to that post in 1974 came in a turbulent time for the association. He put its finances on a more solid footing, then resigned in 1990 during a controversy over two financial deals made by the group.
In 1974, the association was approaching bankruptcy, losing members and forced to take out monthly loans of $1 million just to meet its payroll. By the time Dr. Sammons stepped down, the association had nearly $200 million in assets and had become one of the most influential medical organizations in the world.
Dr. Sammons's overhaul of the association included raising membership dues and slashing the number of association committees and councils to 8 from 100. He also made a 20 percent reduction in staff budgets, which angered many association members. According to a 1984 account in American Medical News, a publication of the association, when the editor of The Journal of the American Medical Association walked into Dr. Sammons's office one day and threatened to resign over some changes, Dr. Sammons replied, "You just did."
In the 1984 interview, he said, "The fiscal crisis motivated us to bring A.M.A. into the 20th century and turn it into a modern corporation."
Dr. Sammons was born in Montgomery, Ala., in 1927. He graduated from Washington and Lee University and then the St. Louis University School of Medicine in 1951.
He is survived by his wife, JoAnne Halloway; a son, Dr. James Harris Sammons Jr. of Laken-Heath, England; a daughter, Patricia Sammons Sheats of Bastrop, Tex.; two stepchildren, Nancy Bond and Joseph Bond of Chicago; and five grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); BUDGETS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CHILDREN (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (62%); CANCER (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health 

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



629 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Slighted by the Rebate 

BYLINE:  By Nancy Staudt; Nancy Staudt is a tax professor at Washington University School of Law.

DATELINE: ST. LOUIS 

 BODY:
Though President Bush claims that tax rebate checks will make virtually every American family $300 or $600 richer by the end of summer, 34 million American adults, or 26 percent, will be getting no checks at all. And another 17 million, or 13 percent, will get only a partial rebate.
 The reason for this exclusion of nearly 40 percent of Americans in a major benefit of the new tax law is that the rebate is tied to the income tax. Families that paid no federal income tax will fail to qualify for the rebate altogether, and those who paid very little will get partial rebates. 
 This may sound reasonable: those who don't pay taxes shouldn't get rebates. But the vast majority of those now being excluded do pay federal taxes, and pay far more than just their income tax bills would indicate. The federal government also imposes Social Security taxes on all workers and excise taxes on consumers, and these taxes are paid regardless of whether the taxpayer pays income tax. These other taxes played little or no part in Congressional debates on tax rebates. But they do play a central role in the tax calculations of 75 percent of all taxpayers: nearly three-quarters of all Americans pay more in Social Security and excise tax than they do in income tax.
The tax rebate program is only the most recent example of the federal government's awarding special preferences to payers of the income tax. People who donate to charities are permitted to take tax deductions offsetting the contributions, but the deduction can reduce only income taxes. If the taxpayer makes a contribution to a charity but owes no income tax, the deduction is completely lost. The same is true for virtually every deduction found in the tax code, including those for medical care, home mortgages, casualty losses and countless other everyday costs.
The creation of a taxpayer hierarchy results in the allocation of benefits based on one's contributions to the state. Just as voting is no longer reserved for those who can afford to pay the poll tax, rebates and deductions should not be reserved for a select group of taxpayers to the exclusion of all others -- especially those who contribute a substantial portion of their income through other taxes.
Of course, different taxes were originally justified in different ways. The income tax was levied primarily to finance the day-to-day operations of the federal government. The Social Security tax was adopted as a means to ensure that aging Americans would have a steady stream of income in retirement. And excise taxes were presented as promoting other purposes: discouraging consumption in the case of the taxes on cigarettes and alcoholic beverages, building highways in the case of the gasoline tax. Greater fairness in taxation would require major changes in the tax structure, like allowing most taxpayers to obtain deductions currently tied only to the income tax. But at the very least, when Congress gives a one-time rebate to share the surplus and give a boost to the economy, that rebate should apply to all taxpayers, not just those who happen to pay income tax.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); INCOME TAX (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (89%); EXCISE TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CHARITIES (78%); AGING TRENDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); FUEL TAX (73%); AGING (68%); GASOLINE (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%) TAXATION; REBATES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) STAUDT, NANCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



630 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Trust And Antitrust

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
When the European Commission indicated it was likely to block the proposed merger between General Electric and Honeywell, American politicians from George W. Bush on down cried foul, with some alleging that the decision was politically motivated. They're almost certainly wrong about that, but it is true that the E.C.'s case against the merger is far from watertight. Mario Monti, Europe's competition referee, may have made a bad call on this play.
 Nonetheless, our politicians should lower their voices. Mr. Monti is one of the good guys in today's global economy. He should not be made the target of attempts at political intimidation. 
 To put the G.E.-Honeywell affair in context, you need to realize that this case is a triple switcheroo: it contradicts not one but three pieces of conventional wisdom.
First, the conventional view is that globalization weakens governments, because it forces them to compete for private investment. Broadly speaking, this view is right. (Conventional wisdom usually is.) There are, however, exceptions to the rule, and antitrust policy is one of those exceptions. In today's world, no company can compete effectively unless it can operate freely on both sides of the Atlantic -- which it can do only with a green light from antitrust authorities in both the United States and Europe. The result is that instead of eroding the power of those authorities, globalization has extended their reach: American regulators can block European mergers, and vice versa.
Second, this case inverts traditional roles. Until recently, only the U.S. seemed to take antitrust policy seriously. Europeans might have U.S.-style legislation on the books, but they often seemed to feel that cartels, like extramarital affairs, were nothing to worry about as long as the participants were discreet -- and they were scornful toward puritanical Americans who insisted on enforcing the letter of the law. Lately, however, Europe has gotten serious about antitrust, giving the competition commissioner broad powers to block mergers and investigate allegations of anticompetitive behavior. Mr. Monti, an American-trained university professor who assumed that office in 1999, has used those powers aggressively. General Electric and Honeywell are by no means the first companies to find Mr. Monti blocking what they thought was a done deal.
Was Mr. Monti right to block this particular deal? It's a complicated issue. Let's just say that the case against this merger is similar to the case for breaking up Microsoft, though it seems a lot weaker. On the other hand, you don't need as strong an argument to block a merger as you do to break up a going concern. We're in a gray area, with the precise shade of gray a matter of opinion. 
Even if you disagree with Mr. Monti's opinion, however, his sincerity is not in doubt. The best answer to those who claim that this is really a protectionist ploy is Mr. Monti's track record: he has repeatedly shown himself willing to oppose the demands of powerful European interest groups. Why would he suddenly become a tool of protectionists?
And that leads us to the third switcheroo. Europeans are accustomed to cozy cohabitation between politicians and businessmen; Americans tend to insist on at least the appearance of an arms-length relationship. But just at the moment when the Europeans have placed competition policy in the hands of a sternly upright professor, the United States has acquired an administration that seems oblivious to normal concerns about conflict of interest.
It's not yet clear whether the Bush administration really is a government of, by and for big corporations to an extent not seen since Warren G. Harding was president, or whether it just looks that way. But the stories keep accumulating. Intel's chief lobbyist says that his highly inappropriate meetings with Karl Rove were "quite useful" to its merger case -- and Mr. Rove didn't even get a slap on the wrist. According to the outgoing chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the head of Enron offered to support him at the White House if he changed his policy positions. And it took three months -- and a sharp prod from Jake Tapper at Salon -- before Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill honored his promise to sell his Alcoa stock. As a consumer, I'm not sure I trust these people to protect me from the market power of giant corporations.
And so it's nice to know that Mr. Monti is out there, looking after my interests. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); MERGERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CARTELS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) HONEYWELL INC; EUROPEAN UNION; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); PAUL KRUGMAN (54%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



631 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1529 words

HEADLINE: The World: Free Trade's Promise in Latin America; 
The Poor Survive It All. Even Boom Times.

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

 BODY:
FOR months now, President Bush has been asking Congress for something really big: authority to negotiate the largest free trade agreement the world has ever seen, one that would create a market of 800 million people in the Americas, from the Arctic to Antarctica. In exchange, he has promised that the trade zone will not only create markets for the United States, but will fortify democracy in Latin America and spread the economic benefits equitably. 
 Last week, it became clear he has a big fight ahead. The capital was flooded with critics who fear the deal's impact on workers' rights and environmental standards, and supporters eager for bigger markets and increased economic opportunities. 
 But their debate barely touches a far more fundamental question: does the combination of democracy and free enterprise guarantee achievement of the larger goal -- higher living standards? In Latin America, the answer often is no. 
On the surface, descriptions of trade, democracy and shared prosperity as inevitably linked represent a logical bind for the Bush administration. The Western Hemisphere already is more politically democratic than ever; excluding Cuba, every nation has an elected government. And the markets have never been more open; most governments have sold state-owned businesses, cut tariffs and torn down other walls that protected national industries. 
What has this produced? According to the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, an enormous number of Latin Americans -- 224 million of them -- live in poverty. They represent roughly 36 percent of the population -- an improvement from the 41 percent who were considered poor in 1990, but higher than the 35 percent so defined in 1980.
More perilous for social peace, Latin America maintains the broadest gap between rich and poor in the world, and the gap has narrowed only marginally, if at all, from what it was under the generals, dictators and caudillos. 
To some Latin American scholars, the linking of democracy, trade and shared prosperity suggest that Mr. Bush and many Latin American leaders are out of touch with reality. "These guys are just whistling Dixie," said Riordan Roett, director of the Western Hemisphere program at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. "They're ignoring the basic issues that everyone's been pointing out to them for a decade."
The most effective way to ensure a fairer distribution of the economic benefits of market openings, according to Professor Roett and many other experts, is by improving education. Greater skills translate directly into higher wages. But only 15 percent of Latin American children make it to the ninth grade, even though spending on education has increased in at least 13 nations.
The increases tend to be less effective than they might be because Latin American governments spend disproportionately on universities -- a strategy aimed at mollifying politically active middle class students. 
And that kind of spending decision underlines a basic problem throughout Latin America: the way to fairer distribution of wealth is known, but the will to make the necessary changes gets waylaid between the people and their governments.
Nobody expects miracles overnight. Economic ministers in Latin America always counter reports of current problems with references to how bad things were before, and they usually are right. But their critics say they miss a crucial point. The region's rigid social structure isn't equipped to equitably distribute wealth, and this has been true whether a society was a democracy or an autocracy, protectionist or free-trading. 
AS Mexico learned when it abandoned protectionism in the 1980's and 90's, capitalism unbound puts lower-wage people at the mercy of global market forces. In order to counteract those forces and create more winners than losers, a nation needs strong democratic institutions -- a sound judiciary, free media and officials who are responsive to voters.
Far too often, however, Latin America's fledgling democracies have been too weak to effectively defend against such elite forces. For example, the elected governments of countries like Guatemala did little to stand in the way as the rich amassed tremendous wealth, allowing a coalition of agricultural growers and financial groups to block tax reforms. In Ecuador several years ago, so many rich people were evading income taxes that the government just abolished them, putting a tax on financial transactions instead. 
In such cases, checks and balances intended to hold officials accountable don't function; policy decisions are based on their impact on the powerful few, not on the poor majority. 
And so, even after decades of market opening and democratic elections, the richest 10 percent of Guatemalans and Brazilians control almost half of their national incomes, while the bottom 50 percent have access to just 10 percent of the wealth. Chile, Uruguay and, until recently, Argentina have had fairly sophisticated and stable economies, but they too have barely narrowed the wealth gap. 
In fact, over the last 40 years, the most effective efforts to bridge the gap took place under populist authoritarian governments that rejected both democracy and free trade. They erected protectionist barriers that kept vast numbers of people employed, but not productively. The governments made up for shortfalls by borrowing heavily from foreigners. The system worked, but only for a while. It led to the debt crisis of the 1980's, which worsened income inequity. The region recovered in the early 90's but most of the progress was wiped out by Mexico's debt crisis of 1994-95.
 THE region's economies climbed back again, but as they did something else occurred. The economic restructuring intersected with democratic opening in many countries, creating unforeseen new pressures. Competing globally meant becoming more productive, which brought layoffs. New standards of openness forced the governments to reveal economic data on once-guarded items like foreign cash reserves. This cleared the way for newly liberated news outlets to investigate corruption on every level. 
The result? "People now see the corruption and the problems with education, health and judicial impunity, and they think that is democracy," said Cesar Gaviria, a former president of Colombia who is secretary general of the Organization of American States. "All of that has created a sense of skepticism about democracy."
That disenchantment has put democracy itself at risk, and some Latin American intellectuals fear that the door has opened for the region to return to what the Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes has called the area's "oldest and most deeply rooted tradition -- authoritarianism."
The stirrings of such a shift are already evident. Using resentment against the maldistribution of wealth in Venezuela, Hugo Chavez led an unsuccessful coup attempt in 1991. A few years later, he won the presidential election and began dismantling parts of Venezuela's constitutional system that he said were unresponsive to the masses. 
A coup in Ecuador last year was a backlash, in part, against the country's economic morass and a decision to adopt the American dollar as Ecuador's currency. After international pressure forced the generals to surrender control, the new president promised to work to distribute economic benefits equitably. But one of his first moves was to complete dollarization, which helped businesses but not the poor.
And in last year's historic election in Mexico, perceptions that economic opening had enriched a few families while leaving most Mexicans in poverty helped to oust the ruling party that had controlled the presidency for seven decades. This victory for democracy could prove a tenuous one; sustaining the victory may well depend on President Vicente Fox's ability to persuade most Mexicans that they too are benefiting from free trade.
Mexico, Ecuador and Venezuela were among the 34 nations at the recent Summit of the Americas in Quebec, which voted to limit participation in future summits -- and perhaps the proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas that the Bush administration supports -- to democracies.
But critics of such a simple linkage say it is not merely a democratic constitution and elections that determine the fairness of a society, but how deeply democratic understandings reach into the culture. Hernando De Soto, the Peruvian economist whose ideas have influenced public policy in the region, believes that raw capitalism has trumped principles of fairness in Latin America because many of the region's democracies haven't developed completely.
"LATIN Americans get to choose their leaders, but once they are in place, it's the old cliques that make the bottom-line decisions that are suitable to their own needs, not the people's needs," said Mr. De Soto. Latin American newspapers commonly refer to "the arrival of democracy" after elections, but the process doesn't end there.
"These nations may look like democracies and sound like democracies," said Mr. DeSoto, "but they certainly do not function in the same way that true democracies function."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Democracy hasn't narrowed Latin America's rich-poor gap; here, a 9-year-old Panamanian shines shoes. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (68%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC COMMISSION FOR LATIN AMERICA & THE CARIBBEAN (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); ANTARCTICA (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (78%); ARCTIC (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



632 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Red-Eyed, Not Blindsided

BYLINE:  By Jennifer L. Rich 

 BODY:
The optimism exuded by Arminio Fraga, president of Brazil's central bank, apparently is not the only contagious thing about him.
 Mr. 
Fraga, 43, a former fund manager for George Soros, and a Princeton-educated economist who speaks flawless English with a New Jersey accent, has been at his family's home in Rio de Janeiro for the past several weeks battling an eye infection. His red eyes gave the world the impression that he had been spending long hours slaving away at his desk. 
 Last Thursday, Mr. Fraga, after warning reporters to keep away and banning flash photographs because of his condition, announced a series of measures to thwart currency speculators who he says have gone too far in pushing down the value of Brazil's currency, the real. (It has fallen more than 20 percent against the dollar this year.) Though his plan has received mixed reviews, praise for Mr. Fraga, described by the Brazilian media as bold and decisive, is widespread. Jennifer L. Rich

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fraga 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%) 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (72%) FRAGA, ARMINIO 

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) BRAZIL (96%); UNITED STATES (72%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



633 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 24, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Tries to Balance 2 Lives: Busy Mayor and Warring Spouse 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

 BODY:
The two lives of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani merged shortly before a City Hall news conference last week, when he took a call from an important man in his life: Raoul L. Felder, his divorce lawyer, who was across the street tangling in Manhattan's matrimonial court with a cranky, impatient judge. "The judge wants to put this on a fast track," Mr. Felder told the mayor. Could he set a date to go to the office of his wife's lawyer for a deposition?
 Mr. Giuliani, who was preparing for questions about a deadly hardware store fire in Queens -- he would soon go out and say that two surviving firefighters were "still in a great deal of pain" -- quickly came back with the date of July 17. The conversation, Mr. Felder said, lasted less than a minute. But other discussions that Mr. Felder has had with Mr. Giuliani about his divorce, some as early as 5 a.m. at Mr. Felder's Manhattan home, have taken two hours. 
 "It's longer than I talk to my wife," said Mr. Felder, who describes the mayor, a former prosecutor, as wholly absorbed in the details of his explosive divorce. "It's a whole new body of law to him, but he grasps it very quickly. He says, 'Is that statute, or is that case law?' I say, 'Case law.' And he says, 'Let me read the case.' And literally, a building could fall when he's zeroing in on it."
Nonetheless, Mr. Felder said, Mr. Giuliani does not like to meet at City Hall. "He won't leave his job," the mayor's lawyer said. "The only time I catch him is when the day is over or when the day begins."
Such are the parallel lives these days of Rudy Giuliani, mayor and warring spouse. By most accounts, Mr. Giuliani has remained focused on his day job even as he has become consumed by the breakup of his 17-year marriage to Donna Hanover. Colleagues say that Mr. Giuliani often uses his work as an escape from the emotional rage he expends on his divorce. 
"He feels that he can control what happens in the city, but he can't control what happens in his personal life," said City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, a Democratic mayoral candidate, who meets weekly with Mr. Giuliani. "I'm sure it's a tremendous personal strain, and I'd be the first one to tell you that he isn't focused on the city. But he is."
Still, it is the divorce that dominates the mood at City Hall, particularly as the Giuliani administration winds down. With only six months left because of term limits, the mayor has made his last $40 billion city budget deal, hammered out the wording of a crucial merit-pay agreement with the city's largest union and not come close to his dream of a football stadium on the West Side of Manhattan. Staff members, many bewildered by Mr. Giuliani's handling of his divorce, particularly Mr. Felder's harsh public criticism of Ms. Hanover, are busy looking for work. 
Mr. Giuliani is also looking ahead. Despite the chaos in his life, he has made extensive notes for a book on management, tentatively titled "Rudy's Rules," to be published by Talk Miramax Books next spring. Last week Mr. Giuliani and his publisher agreed on a collaborator, Ken Kurson, a business writer and an editor at large at Money magazine. Mr. Kurson, who is expected to turn in the manuscript for the 250-page book next January, is to begin working with Mr. Giuliani as early as this week. 
"The thrust of the book is how to run your business using the principles that Giuliani has used to run New York City," said Mr. Giuliani's editor, Jonathan Burnham.
A more personal memoir, part of a $3 million, two-book deal that Mr. Giuliani made with his publisher in January, is to follow later.
Mr. Giuliani has told friends that he is ready to take a break from public life, and even said lightheartedly at a Gracie Mansion barbecue not long ago that two terms as mayor was enough. Friends say he is eager to make money.
"I have got to find a way to make a living next year," Mr. Giuliani said shortly after he made his book deal. "I want to do something interesting. I want to do something that is creative. I want to do something that is fun. I want to do something that is enlightening."
At the same time, Mr. Giuliani's political future is more uncertain than it has ever been. Two schools of thought prevail in the city: one, that Mr. Giuliani's treatment of his wife as just another enemy has destroyed him politically; and two, that voters have short memories and will therefore allow him to ride back into Rome on his chariot should the city be economically depressed and crime-ridden after the next mayor's term is up in four years. Mr. Giuliani, who is allowed by city law to run again for mayor in 2005, has often said he would consider it.
Edward I. Koch, the former mayor who has become a regular critic of the current mayor, is of the first school. "He is unraveling," he said. "I believe that what he's doing vis-a-vis Donna is so irrational, it has got to be part of the syndrome that he can't run again at this time." Mr. Koch added that Mr. Giuliani's so-far unsuccessful court fight to bring his friend Judith Nathan to Gracie Mansion had appalled voters.
"The fact is, everybody is probably happy that he has a lady friend to comfort him," Mr. Koch said. "But not when he rubs your nose in it, and his wife's nose, and his children's noses." 
George Arzt, a Democratic political consultant, is of the second school. "If his successor doesn't do well, and he gets mired in deep financial troubles and crime is on the upswing, people will look to Rudy as a savior," Mr. Arzt said. "They'll put his personal life aside. In politics you never say never."
A poll released last week by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion showed that so far, Mr. Giuliani's divorce has not significantly changed voters' minds about him. A majority of those surveyed, 57 percent, rated Mr. Giuliani's job performance as excellent or good, a number statistically unchanged from a similar Marist poll conducted last March. Similarly, 57 percent in the current poll said that they thought the mayor's marital problems were not interfering with his job. On the other hand, 43 percent said that they were.
Not all voters necessarily see Mr. Giuliani as the perpetrator of the family's unhappiness. Some loyalists see him as the victim of an ambitious woman who dared to have a television and acting career when she should have been tending, they say, to concerns at home.
"She's too much on TV," said Alice Miller, 71, a Democrat from Maspeth, Queens, echoing the comments of other traditionalist Giuliani supporters. "Who takes care of her kids when she's on those shows? I believe he should have his life. She left him a long time ago, before he had this girl. She was too busy for him."
Members of Mr. Giuliani's inner circle explain the mayor's public battle with his wife with a simple phrase, "That's Rudy," and say it is not so different from the mayor's trademark fights with Mark Green, the public advocate, or Ramon C. Cortines and Rudy Crew, the two schools chancellors whom he chased out of town. 
The city's veteran divorce lawyers see something else: a man recovering from prostate cancer, in love with a new woman, and ready to move on with his life. "Except for the fact that it's the mayor and his wife, it's a garden-variety case," said Adria Hillman, a prominent divorce lawyer who represented Ronald O. Perelman in his divorce from Patricia Duff. "Getting a divorce is like a death in the family, only worse. You go through various stages. You are angry, you are sad, you are upset. You don't understand why this is happening to you. You see good people at their worst."
Now, as summer has arrived, Mr. Giuliani is spending time on the golf course, most publicly last week with his son, Andrew, 15, who will start ninth grade at St. Joseph Regional High School in New Jersey in September. On Wednesday, Andrew took his father's place in a pro-am tournament with Tiger Woods at the Westchester Country Club in Harrison, N.Y., leaving Mr. Giuliani, who has a sore left foot, to clump around behind him or to watch with his security guard from a golf cart.
"Got a lot of talent," Mr. Giuliani said softly.
Uncharacteristically on the sidelines, he sat in the shade by a small brook at the eighth hole, watching his son hit the ball with Mr. Woods.
"Very cool," the mayor said.
Meanwhile, Mr. Giuliani is scrambling to make deals for new stadiums for the Yankees and the Mets, and is pushing yet another Charter Revision Commission, his third in four years, to consider nonpartisan New York City elections. "I think he is aware of the fact that people think he's not focused," said Mr. Vallone, who has had battles with Mr. Giuliani in the past but is, for now, on his good side. "But he is probably more focused now than ever before. He wants to complete this year and he wants to leave a legacy."
Mr. Vallone added that for whatever reason, he and Mr. Giuliani have grown closer in recent months.
"He's told me things," Mr. Vallone said, "like I'm the only one who's never lied to him."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani let his son, Andrew, 15, take his place in a pro-am golf tournament at Westchester Country Club on Wednesday. (Associated Press)(pg. 23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MARRIAGE (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CITIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DEPOSITIONS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2001 



634 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: The False Promise of Casinos 

BYLINE:  By Richard C. Leone; Richard C. Leone, president of the Century Foundation, was a member of the National Gambling Impact Study Commission.

 BODY:
Governor George Pataki and many in the State Legislature, acting with a dispatch normally associated with disaster relief, are trying to rush through legislation to permit tribal casinos in Buffalo, Niagara Falls and an undetermined third location in upstate New York. Is this happening because hearts in Albany go out to the Native Americans who have been mistreated for hundreds of years or because of a new empathy for community leaders struggling to save declining cities? Maybe a little of both. But my guess is it's because gambling revenues are an easy way to raise taxes without public disapproval and campaign contributions from the gambling industry are a growth area in American politics.
 The governor's plan to expand gambling is the latest installment in a process that has transformed the nation. In the 1970's, legalized gambling was still unusual and largely limited to a few lotteries and a wide-open Nevada. Today, 47 states have some form of legalized gambling, with lotteries in 37 states. Moreover, as gambling sites proliferate on the Internet, more bettors can place a wager without ever leaving home at all. 
 If anything, governmental pursuit of gambling revenues is intensifying, as states increasingly feel the need to expand and diversify to match "competition" from their neighbors. The National Gambling Impact Study Commission, on which I served, reported to Congress in 1999, calling for a pause in the spread of gambling. While some public officials listened, most just don't want to hear about the social and economic costs of increased gambling.
Just this month, for example, a conference in New York City sponsored by the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse, the National Institute of Mental Health and the Century Foundation highlighted new evidence that gambling affects the brain in the same way addictive drugs do. Brain imaging in a study led by Hans Breiter of Massachusetts General Hospital showed that the anticipation of winning money stimulated gamblers -- changing the patterns on their brain scans -- in much the same way an infusion of cocaine affects the brains of cocaine addicts. There's further evidence of gambling's physiological effects from research on treatment of gambling problems, which has shown that drugs used to treat heroin addicts and alcoholics may be useful for pathological gamblers as well.
The evidence also shows that gambling is not always an effective cure for local economic ills. Oh, most of the casinos do well and states get more taxes, but what about the promise of delivering real economic opportunities? Try walking around Atlantic City; one block from the boardwalk, it almost seems the major "retail" is pawn shops. Casinos, after all, are designed to keep the customer inside their walls, without even windows to indicate the time of day.
Nationally, we are clearly playing a game that is a bit like slash-and-burn farming. Eventually the land, or in this case the bettors, will be played out. Though there's always the hope that gambling will generate tourism, too often the gamblers are local residents whose losses will redound on the community.
There is one other reason this is happening now. For a decade, governors across the nation have built political careers by promising tax cuts. When they run again, they often face a growing public realization that the state tax reductions simply caused a shift to higher property taxes and rents. Political leaders who claim to disapprove of both gambling and taxes are finding that they cannot have it both ways. Trapped by this contradiction, they hope to get lucky with the next big expansion of gambling. Well, that isn't likely to be anything better than a sucker's bet.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Melinda Beck) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (95%); CASINOS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); BRAIN (87%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); TRENDS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); CITIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (68%); COCAINE (68%); HEROIN (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) GAMBLING; STATES (US); CASINOS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: LEONE, RICHARD C 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (91%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



635 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Online Animators Redraw Game Plans

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
For anyone still harboring the illusion that the World Wide Web is going to overtake the television set anytime soon, Buzz Potamkin has a story to share.
 Mr. Potamkin, a former executive producer at Hanna-Barbera Productions who helped develop the 1980's hit cartoon "The Berenstain Bears," left Hollywood three years ago to produce an animated series called "WhirlGirl" for Visionary Media, a Web site based in Manhattan. 
 "WhirlGirl" seemed like an allusion to what Mr. Potamkin's company promised to do to old media companies. The main character, Kia Cross, nerd by day and superheroine by night, prevents an evil media empire from controlling viewers' lives. 
But for Mr. Potamkin, it was much easier in cartoonland than it has been in real life.
"At first we thought we would be a destination site that would attract millions of people and advertising, then we tried licensing our shows to other sites like Showtime," Mr. Potamkin said. "What we've learned is that the audience is just not out there on the Web yet."
Mr. Potamkin is still the chief executive of Visionary Media, one of the dot-coms that vowed to circumvent the major networks. But now, Visionary is among the few online animated companies remaining, and it is trying to survive by turning to the very networks it promised to make obsolete.
Most online television companies that once sprouted in San Francisco and Silicon Alley in Manhattan have faded out, abandoning their loft studios and selling their equipment at dirt-cheap process. When Pseudo.com, the high-profile online television and animation company, went out of business last summer, it seemed the sector would collapse.
Critics say these companies miscalculated how long it would take for high-speed Internet connections, which make watching television on the Web practical, to spread into homes and offices. Experts now say the all-purpose box that delivers the Web and television and monitors the heating in the house is a long way from reality.
"It may never happen," said David Card, an analyst at Jupiter Media Metrix, the New York Internet research firm. "We are still feeling our way around it and certainly have not come up with an online television business model."
Two of the most prominent Web animation companies left standing, Visionary and Bullseye Art, both based in Manhattan, are trying to stay alive by using the technology and techniques they developed for Web animation to create broadcast television programming more quickly and cheaply.
Visionary and Bullseye both started as Web animation companies in 1997, with hopes that they would become destination sites where viewers would come for animated programming and that profits would flow from the advertising. But as it became clear that they could not attract the advertising dollars, both companies adjusted their business plans and began licensing cartoons to other Web sites.
Visionary landed a deal to produce weekly episodes of "WhirlGirl" to be broadcast on Showtime's Sho.com, and Bullseye was able to place its cartoons at Razorfish Studios, Icebox.com, Atom Films and other sites. But the companies ran into trouble last year as the economy began to slow and the companies they were working with began to reduce spending.
"People were eager to produce content for the Web, they had the talent and the tools to do it, and people were going to the sites," said Mark Schneider, the president and self-proclaimed designated adult at Bullseye. "But there was not a financial model to make it work."
Faced with growing costs and decreased revenue, both companies began working last year to adapt their Flash technology, originally designed to move large vector graphics through small Internet pipelines, to produce animation for broadcast television. "The realization on our part was that traditional media, broadcast media, has been there and is there, and that is where we need to be," Mr. Schneider said.
The normal process for developing television animation is expensive and involves Hollywood animators' drawing storyboards that are actually sent out, generally to India and other countries where labor is much cheaper, to be redrawn frame by frame.
It often takes about 20,000 drawings to make one 30-minute episode of "The Simpsons" or "The Smurfs," at a cost of $350,000 to $500,000 even before paying the writers, executives and voice talent. Slight changes, in color or events, later in the process can increase costs exponentially. Cost overruns are one of the greatest concerns among studios, experts say.
But Flash can cut costs by allowing animators to cut and paste from file to file, speeding up the process and eliminating the need for drawers overseas. This computerized process also allows files to be linked and slight shifts in color to be seamlessly made as well as other changes later in the process.
Mr. Potamkin estimates that Visionary can produce a 30-minute episode for $140,000 to $180,000. Mr. Schneider believes that the benefits are not just the reduced prices, but that animation can be done so much faster and at the last minute.
The problem with Flash had been that, despite its ease, studios were convinced that it did not measure up to broadcast quality. That was until Bullseye produced a 30-second introduction for "The Rosie O'Donnell Show" that was nominated for an Emmy this year.
But there are those who defend the traditional methods.
Eric Radomski, the executive creative officer at Film Roman, an animation studio in North Hollywood, Calif., that handles "The Simpsons" and "King of the Hill," said that even though the firm had done programs in Flash, the highest-quality programs must have some elements of the traditional process. 
"Flash technology is great, but it can't be looked at as anything other than a new technique," said Mr. Radomski, a three-time Emmy winner who has overseen recent changes in the studio's animation unit. "It is not going to really change the industry. It is more of a technological enhancement and a step in the right direction of a hybrid of traditional and digital animation."
Despite such hurdles, Mr. Card, the Jupiter analyst, said the new companies had some advantages. "The technology is finally there to do high-quality, low-cost animation, with the idea that studios can have more control over the process and the costs," he said.
Visionary has since developed a 14-minute broadcast-quality episode of "WhirlGirl," and it is negotiating a contract to create half-hour episodes of the program for an international distribution company. Bullseye has since signed a deal with MTV to develop a television version of its Webtoon "Miss Muffy and the Muff Mob," a hip version of "Strawberry Shortcake."
Even with the high hopes for the future, Josh Kinsberg, the chief creative officer and founder of Bullseye, said he no longer had visions of transforming Hollywood. "Best-case scenario now is that we get funded, keep growing and compete with the studios on our own," he said. "Getting acquired and becoming a part of a studio is not the worst thing that could happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Partners at Bullseye Animation are Josh Kimberg, left, Nick Cogan and Mark Schneider, standing. At left are a still from "Miss Muffy and the Muff Mob" and a storyboard. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); In the Visionary Media office are, from left, Buzz Potamkin, David Williams and Ephraim Kehlmann. They hope to produce a TV version of "WhirlGirl," which began life as a Webtoon. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ANIMATION (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (89%); POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (77%); WEB SITES (76%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); EXECUTIVES (57%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEVISION; ANIMATED FILMS 

ORGANIZATION: VISIONARY MEDIA (CO); BULLSEYE ART (CO) 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



636 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1912 words

HEADLINE: Offstage Drama at Long Wharf; 
The Feud That Led a Proud Theater's Director to Resign

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
They started on friendly terms. Barbara L. Pearce led the search committee that in 1997 selected Doug Hughes as the first new artistic director in 30 years to lead Long Wharf Theater in New Haven. Mr. Hughes backed the decision to make Ms. Pearce chairwoman when he came to the theater. Ms. Pearce says she introduced Mr. Hughes to Lynn Fusco, whom he married last year. At fund-raising events, the two regularly performed an impressive pitch on behalf of the theater, with no evident signs of tension between them. 
 But almost from the beginning, Mr. Hughes said, the relationship was strained. So much so, that last month Mr. Hughes asked the board to have Ms. Pearce resign as chairwoman. And it was the inability to reconcile their differences that ultimately led Mr. Hughes himself to resign on June 4. 
 The news shook the regional theater industry, particularly the small artistic world of the city that is Long Wharf's home. And of course, in tales like these, figuring out the truth is a bit like deciphering "Rashomon." Was it just a clash of personalities or a conflict over corporate management? A case of an upstart artistic director who chafed under the oversight of his chairwoman? Or an overbearing chairwoman who wouldn't leave her artistic director room to lead? Are there larger lessons for the regional theater about the growing conflicts between creative and commercial interests? 
While Ms. Pearce acknowledged instances of tension, she said the relationship ultimately broke down over who called the shots. "This is not a personality conflict," she said. "This is a philosophical conflict about governance." 
Mr. Hughes said: "I was in no way trying to run the board. What this was was an attempt by an artistic director, recognizing I am an employee, to seek collaboration on a problem that was making it very difficult to do my job."
On one point all parties agree. Artistically, Mr. Hughes was a gift to Long Wharf Theater. This institution was at a crossroads when he arrived: his predecessor, Arvin Brown, had helped put the theater on the map in its early days with celebrated productions like "The Gin Game" and "The Shadow Box," but 30 years later, it was languishing.
Good artistic directors are hard to come by. Many have abandoned their institutional theaters recently, and few seem to be in the pipeline to take their places. Running a nonprofit theater is a grind, requiring a constant and increasingly delicate balancing act between filling seats and taking artistic chances. 
Mr. Hughes, 45, comes from a theater family. (His parents, Barnard Hughes and Helen Stenborg, are both actors.) Though he had never led a theater before, he had been associate artistic director at Manhattan Theater Club and at Seattle Repertory Theater and director of programming at the Guthrie Theater in Minneapolis. 
In his first Long Wharf season, 1997-98, Mr. Hughes succeeded in reactivating the theater's smaller second space, which had been dormant for three years, enabling Long Wharf to produce eight plays on two stages, compared with five plays on one stage the previous season. 
One of those plays was "Wit," the drama by Margaret Edson, which moved to New York, won the Pulitzer Prize and was made into an acclaimed television movie. 
During Mr. Hughes's tenure Long Wharf also erased its $600,000 deficit. And if a few shows ran over budget last season, like the musical "Golden Boy," board members agreed that his artistic judgment proved a financial boon for the theater. The budget increased to $6.7 million from $4.8 million. And last year the theater was awarded the largest single grant in its 36-year history, a combined gift of about $1 million from the Andrew Mellon and Doris Duke foundations.
Board members say that Mr. Hughes was a strong spokesman for the theater as well: articulate, charismatic and intelligent. And while subscriptions have remained steady at slightly under 11,000, single-ticket sales are up slightly since he took over.
"He put a lot of creative fire into the institution," said Nicholas Fox Weber, a writer who recently joined the board.
Board members say Ms. Pearce, 46, has also been a powerful force for Long Wharf, a tenacious fund-raiser who is fiercely committed to the institution. "Barbara's the kind of person that just steps up to the plate and gets it done," said Richard A. Ferguson, vice president of the board. "For every dollar I raised, she raised 20 times that. She is just extraordinary in her efforts." 
So what went wrong? Why couldn't these two people -- who by all accounts made for an effective team -- find a way to work together or at least coexist for the greater good of the theater? 
Mr. Hughes said Ms. Pearce had made his job untenable. Though he declined to offer specific examples of the behavior that bothered him, what emerged from conversations with members of the board and staff was that Mr. Hughes regarded her as a meddlesome micromanager. 
When there were fund-raising telephone calls that he had promised to make, for example, she would keep after him until he made them. Indeed, Michael Ross, the theater's managing director, having tired of being the middleman, almost resigned himself over the tension between Mr. Hughes and Ms. Pearce. 
"It was a difficult situation that I had been living with for a number of years," he said.
Mr. Hughes also said that he felt that he could not continue working with Ms. Pearce, given that Long Wharf was about to embark on an ambitious capital campaign to raise $30 million to $50 million for a new building. This project, unprecedented in the theater's history, would require close collaboration between artistic director and chairwoman.
Mr. Hughes's complaints date to early in his tenure, his colleagues say, but though he made them known to Ms. Pearce, the circumstances did not change to his satisfaction. 
In an incident that seems to have been the breaking point for Mr. Hughes, he arranged -- with the help of his wife, Ms. Fusco, a real estate developer in New Haven -- a meeting with Connecticut economic development officials to discuss Long Wharf's plans for expansion. He did not invite Ms. Pearce. She said she was outraged and ultimately insisted on attending the meeting, along with Jerry Meyer, the president of the board, and Mr. Ross. Ms. Fusco was also present. 
Mr. Hughes said he viewed the meeting simply as an informational session to learn the protocols by which nonprofit institutions like Long Wharf could apply for grants or appeal to the state legislature for funds. Ms. Pearce said it was a rare opportunity to plead Long Wharf's case to the government and because she was chairwoman, it was appropriate for her to attend. 
She said she was surprised when Mr. Hughes demanded that she step down. So were most members of the board, who were unaware of his difficulties with her. 
Mr. Hughes took his concerns to the board's officers in April. He told them that he believed that the healthiest course would be for Ms. Pearce, who had two years remaining in her six-year term as chairwoman, to resign and be replaced. 
The officers told him that this was unthinkable and asked him to consider a compromise and take it before the executive board. 
The internecine battle at Long Wharf is complicated by an intricate local network of social and political relationships. Ms. Fusco is president of the Fusco Corporation, a 75-year-old construction and property-management company founded by her grandfather. Ms. Pearce has served on several other boards and is president of H. Pearce Company Realtors, the company owned by her father, Herbert. Her husband, Norman Fleming, is a partner at Wiggin & Dana, a New Haven law firm where C. Newton Schenck, a founding member of the Long Wharf board, is also a partner and for years represented Ms. Pearce's father. 
Ms. Pearce was present on May 14, when Mr. Hughes returned to the board with a compromise: he would be willing to work with her for one more year, with minimal contact, provided that she step down the following year. 
Over the next two weeks the board evaluated the situation -- meeting with Mr. Hughes on several occasions without Ms. Pearce -- and decided not to seek her resignation at any time. "We didn't think it was appropriate for someone on the staff to select the board chairman," said Ruth Lord, a founding member of the board. "It didn't seem to me it was up to him. There is always going to be somebody somewhere people don't get on with." 
Mr. Hughes ultimately asked that the board put forth a compromise of its own, in writing, and begin dealing with his lawyer. He said he felt debilitated by the wrangling and was leaving for Chicago to direct "Hedda Gabler" at the Steppenwolf Theater. 
Instead, Mr. Hughes said, he was called at home on June 1 by Mr. Ferguson, the board's vice president, who told him that a message would be coming over his fax machine. Mr. Ferguson read it to him first. The letter, prepared by Mr. Schenck and signed by Mr. Ferguson, referred to Mr. Hughes's original request to have Ms. Pearce resign as chairwoman. "You still have not withdrawn this revised condition," the letter said, "so we believe, as matters now stand, that you have in effect submitted your resignation." 
In particular, the letter took issue with Mr. Hughes's introduction of lawyers into the negotiations, suggesting that they be brought in only after the two parties had resolved the issues independently. Three days later Mr. Hughes sent a letter of his own, describing Mr. Ferguson's letter as "self-serving and inaccurate." 
Mr. Hughes said he had "never, as you so disingenuously put it, in effect submitted" his resignation. "Now, however," he wrote, "you have my resignation -- effective immediately." 
This time Mr. Hughes sent the letter to the full board. Until then, most of the board members, of whom there are more than 45, had been unaware of any problems between Mr. Hughes and Ms. Pearce. "I view it with great regret," Mr. Weber, the writer, said of the resignation. 
Other board members were disappointed but stalwart about Mr. Hughes's departure. "That theater's going to be absolutely fine," Ms. Lord said, adding, "I'm awfully sad about this rift." On June 13 Long Wharf announced that Greg Leaming, the theater's director of artistic programming, would serve as acting artistic director. 
It was clearly in the final stage that communication broke down. The Long Wharf's board apparently interpreted Mr. Hughes's involvement of his lawyer as a red flag, the potential introduction of a legal claim of constructive termination, whereby an employee tries to prove that he was forced to resign. 
Mr. Hughes, however, said that by continuing to negotiate even after realizing that Ms. Pearce would remain, he was signaling a commitment to continue in his job. "This was about me getting some advocacy in negotiations," he said. "This was not about legal action." He added that he had just signed a five-year contract and planned to direct three plays in the coming season.
He said that he had also taken to Long Wharf a production of Chekhov's "Cherry Orchard," featuring Kathleen Chalfant, the star of "Wit," who quit the "Cherry Orchard" production after Mr. Hughes resigned. His father, who was in the cast, also left. (His mother had appeared in "Wit.") 
Now, however, Mr. Hughes sounds resigned to a future apart from Long Wharf. "It was the peak of my career, working with this theater, and I wish it well," he said. "I wish it very well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doug Hughes, above, former artistic director of Long Wharf Theater, who brought in plays like "Golden Boy," far left. He resigned on June 4 over conflicts with Barbara L. Pearce, left, the theater's chairwoman. (H. Pearce Company Realtors); (Todd Buchanan for The New York Times); (T. Charles Erickson/"Golden Boy")(pg. E1); Helen Stenborg, left, and Kathleen Chalfant in 1997 in "Wit," one of Long Wharf's first productions under Doug Hughes. (T. Charles Erickson)(pg. E4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); RESIGNATIONS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%) THEATER; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: LONG WHARF THEATER 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; PEARCE, BARBARA L; HUGHES, DOUG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (73%); WASHINGTON, USA (50%); MINNESOTA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



637 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Rising Costs Result in a Proposal To Delay 6 New Queens Schools 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Board of Education staff members have proposed delaying the construction of six new schools in Queens and postponing most major school renovations in the five boroughs for two or more years because of soaring construction costs, according to board documents.
 The delays, which could begin as soon as the next school year, are part of a plan being considered by school officials to deal with a growing shortfall in the school construction budget. Under the five-year capital plan outlined by the Board of Education in 1999 and approved by the City Council and the mayor, the city planned to spend about $7 billion on construction and renovation from July 1999 through June 2004. 
 But projects already under way are coming in so far above the original estimates that Board of Education officials now predict the projects are likely to cost up to $1.9 billion more than estimated, according to the documents, which were obtained by The New York Times from an official within the school system. 
Any proposed changes in the capital plan would have to be approved by the seven-member board, said Anthony Shorris, a deputy chancellor. The changes would not affect the 19 schools now under construction, he said, adding that several ways were being considered to spread the cuts among projects not yet begun in each of the five boroughs and between renovations and new school projects. But board staff members have come up with detailed proposals for $1.5 billion in cuts that would draw nearly half the savings from Queens, including the elimination of $283 million planned for the construction of six schools there.
The higher costs have been driven mainly by a shortage of skilled workers available for public projects, according to the documents and interviews with city and education officials. In an economy that until recently had been soaring, contractors have found plenty of private work, where residential developers and homeowners have often been willing to pay more than the going rate on publicly financed projects to get them completed quickly.
Two years ago, for example, officials estimated that new schools could be built over the next five years for an average cost of $34,800 per seat, or roughly $21 million for a typical 600-student elementary school. When contractors made bids over the last two years to build the planned schools, however, they demanded up to $51,000 per seat, or $31 million for a 600-seat school, about 45 percent more than school officials expected.
"We're not getting as many people bidding on projects in this tight market as we might expect," said Dan McCormack, a spokesman for the School Construction Authority. "These are things that are not uncommon to the construction industry in boom times, but that doesn't mean that you don't go ahead and build a school that you were going to build when you only get three or four bids."
Of the schools now under construction, 13 are in Queens, which has the city's most crowded schools. Half the schools now being built are scheduled to open either this fall or next, with the rest to open in the fall of 2003. In addition, 10 major additions to existing schools are under construction and expected to be finished over the same period.
In total, 23,000 of the 50,700 new school seats outlined in the five-year plan are under construction, and 14,000 more are being designed. Therefore, any cuts would come from those schools that have been proposed but not yet started.
Several other factors appear to have contributed to the cost overruns. Many of the building projects now under way originated under the previous five-year plan, which ended in June 1999. It is unclear whether the cost of those plans, originally estimated in 1994, were updated to account for rising construction costs over the last decade. In addition, the Board of Education has had trouble finding enough sites for new school buildings, and those they find sometimes have environmental problems requiring extensive cleanup.
Before the decisions are made, however, the construction budget will undergo an audit ordered last week by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. In addition, the Board of Education has asked for an accounting of spending so far and for more information on expected overruns, and a special commission appointed by Gov. George E. Pataki is continuing a multiyear investigation of the board's construction process.
The costs of renovating the city's aging school buildings are also rising faster than expected, and are projected to cost nearly $3 billion, or 18 percent more than projected in 1999. 
A program to replace all the remaining coal-fired boilers in school buildings, for example, is expected to cost $353 million, $68.5 million or 24 percent more than forecast. Charges for window replacements are running 38 percent over expectations, and repairs to the exterior masonry of buildings are likely to total more than double the original estimates by the time the current capital plan runs its course in June 2004.
More than $1 billion of the proposed spending cuts would come from renovation projects, with plans for exterior modernizations, upgraded heating systems and window replacements bearing the brunt of the savings.
Officials at City Hall have expressed both outrage and skepticism over the budget projections, accusing the Board of Education of serious mismanagement and incompetence and at the same time surmising that the dire forecasts are a ploy to get more money for the school system. 
But while city officials have been quick to chastise the board for the overruns, few have pointed fingers at the School Construction Authority, whose board of trustees is overseen by Howard Wilson, who was appointed by Mr. Giuliani. The other two trustees are Charles A. Stillman, appointed by Mr. Pataki, and Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy.
Representatives from the board's division of school facilities meet regularly with executives from the School Construction Authority to review the status of construction projects. Despite their responsibility for soliciting bids and awarding contracts for construction projects, construction authority officials have held themselves blameless for the higher-than-expected costs, saying they can spend only what they are authorized to spend by the Board of Education.
Terri Thomson, the board member who represents Queens, said in an interview that if promised schools were not built, there would be plenty of blame to go around. 
"There are a lot of players in this capital plan," she said, adding that the Board of Education had been expecting for more than a year that the School Construction Authority would integrate its computer and financial systems with the board's. That is now scheduled to happen by the beginning of next month.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Where the Estimates Fell Short"Board of Education plans for new schools and renovations are being threatened by skyrocketing construction estimates. ESTIMATES IN MILLIONS Citywide projects*Original forecast -- May 1999: $2,898.1New estimate -- May 2001: $3,973.1Percent increase: 37% QueensOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 1,682.7New estimate -- May 2001: 2,222.2Percent increase: 32 BrooklynOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 967.4New estimate -- May 2001: 1,159.7Percent increase: 20 BronxOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 822.8New estimate -- May 2001: 951.9Percent increase: 16 Staten IslandOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 256.2New estimate -- May 2001: 283.4Percent increase: 11 ManhattanOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 552.3New estimate -- May 2001: 553.0Percent increase: 0 Total capital planOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 7,179.5New estimate -- May 2001: 9,143.3Percent increase: 27 Largest projected cost overruns Electrical systemsOriginal forecast -- May 1999: $31.6New estimate -- May 2001: $123.7Percent increase: 291% Exterior masonry repairOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 112.3New estimate -- May 2001: 251.1Percent increase: 124 New school buildingsOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 1,277.9New estimate -- May 2001: 1,852.5Percent increase: 45 Window replacementOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 307.8New estimate -- May 2001: 424.9Percent increase: 38 Replacement of coal-fired boilersOriginal forecast -- May 1999: 284.4New estimate -- May 2001: 352.9Percent increase: 24 *Citywide projects include asbestos and lead abatement, insurance and projects that were begun or scheduled under the previous five-year capital plan.(Source: New York City Board of Education)(pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUILDINGS (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); BUILDING RENOVATION (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPROVALS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); MAYORS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



638 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE G.O.P. SEEKS NEW WAY TO BLOCK CAMPAIGN MEASURE 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24 

 BODY:
As the drive to overhaul the nation's campaign finance system moves to the front of the House agenda, the struggle over money in politics has turned into an unlikely tug of war for the support of a pivotal bloc of blacks, Hispanics and liberals.
 The ferment in House Democratic ranks on an issue the party has long supported comes almost three months after Senate passage of a wide-ranging campaign finance bill raised the prospect that Congress could end years of stalemate and enact the most sweeping change in the system since the aftermath of the Watergate scandal. 
 Republicans, who may move this week to produce a more limited rival bill, are trying to take advantage of the Democrats' second thoughts to defeat broader campaign finance legislation. 
The Republicans are looking to fashion a bill that can drive a wedge through the bipartisan coalition led by Representatives Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, which has long favored overhaul of the campaign finance law. 
By trying to form a strange-bedfellows coalition with disaffected Democrats, these Republicans are hoping to defeat the Shays-Meehan bill, which has at its heart a ban on unrestricted and unregulated contributions to the political parties. 
"If you get a majority of the black caucus, Latinos, labor, Democrats and Republicans together," said Representative Bob Ney, who as chairman of the House Administration Committee is drawing up the Republican bill, "then I think Shays and Meehan need to rethink what they are doing."
The House showdown is set to take place as soon as Congress returns from a July 4 recess. Republican leaders plan to pit Mr. Ney's bill against the Shays-Meehan measure. A barrage of amendments is also expected, and Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the House majority whip, has vowed to do all he can to defeat the overhaul effort, which he calls an infringement on free speech.
With the outcome in the House uncertain, the intense maneuvering shows how the stakes have been raised by the Senate's passage of a measure that would fundamentally change the way the political system works, curbing the political money chase by banning huge contributions to the party committees from corporations, labor unions and wealthy individuals. 
President Bush has told Republicans not to count on him to veto a campaign finance bill. That leaves the House in position to make or break the overhaul effort, after Republican leaders stalled the issue so that its proponents could not ride the momentum of Senate action.
At the heart of the Senate bill, sponsored by Senators John McCain of Arizona and Russell D. Feingold of Wisconsin, is a ban on unrestricted donations to political parties, known as soft money. The measure also seeks to stop the proliferation of attack advertisements by outside groups by putting new restrictions on such advertisements in the weeks before an election.
In exchange for the soft-money ban, the Senate legislation would loosen the caps on regulated contributions for the first time since 1974. The limits on how much an individual can give to a federal candidate would rise to $2,000 an election, from $1,000 now, with subsequent increases for inflation.
In the past, Democrats have provided the vast majority of support in the House for the overhaul effort. In 1998 and 1999, enough Republicans joined them that the House twice passed the soft-money ban, despite the staunch opposition of Republican leaders. But the bill died repeatedly in Republican-led Senate filibusters.
The insurmountable opposition in the Senate during past campaign finance battles made it easier for House members to vote for the legislation, because it had little chance of becoming law. In 1999, the House vote for the Shays-Meehan bill was 252 to 177, a comfortable margin that left some room for defectors.
As the issue comes center stage again, Mr. Shays and Mr. Meehan are fighting to keep their coalition from fracturing, primarily because of second thoughts from some of the more liberal Democrats. A number of black and Hispanic lawmakers say the 2000 presidential election and the standoff over Florida makes them less interested in banning soft money, because such donations are often used by the Democratic Party to register voters and get them to the polls in minority neighborhoods.
A number of liberal Democrats also object to the Senate's decision to increase the limits on regulated donations, known as hard money. Saying that Democrats support "taking money out of politics," Representative Sam Farr, a California Democrat, said the increase "seems to me just the opposite of what our message was for the last 26 years."
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, is struggling to get Democrats to unite behind an effort to devise a campaign finance bill similar enough to the Senate measure that a House-Senate conference to iron out the differences will not be necessary. Such conferences have often become legislative graveyards.
"We are working hard within our caucus to find where sentiment lies," Mr. Gephardt said late last week. "We are entertaining a wide variety of suggestions and ideas."
To counter possible Democratic defections, Mr. Shays and Mr. Meehan are trying to boost their support among House Republican freshmen, who have not voted on the issue before. And they are enlisting help from Mr. McCain, who campaigned for 16 of the 28 House Republican freshmen elected in 2000. 
"Sixteen of them campaigned with John McCain and he put the mantle of reform around them," Mr. Shays said. "They need to deliver."
With an eye toward snagging some of the same votes, Mr. Ney, an Ohio Republican, said in an interview that he was leaning toward producing a rival bill that would limit but not ban soft-money contributions to the political parties. He said it would probably bar the parties from using such money for television commercials, whose cost drives the hunt for these big checks. And he said he might not include the increase in hard-money limits that the Senate approved.
"I'm for a hard dollar increase," he said, "but I'm willing to discuss it with people who don't want a hard dollar increase." He said he might put together his final bill in committee this week, or present it when the House returns from recess. "I want to have a viable alternative," he said. 
Mr. Meehan accused Mr. Ney of simply trying to scuttle the overhaul effort. "It's an attempt to kill campaign finance reform by pulling off members he really doesn't agree with on campaign finance reform or much else," Mr. Meehan said.
Still, Mr. Ney is drawing a hearing from some unexpected quarters.
Representative Albert R. Wynn, a Maryland Democrat who heads the campaign finance task force of the Congressional Black Caucus, said that he had spoken privately to Mr. Ney and that "I'd like to see how things develop." He said a majority of the 38-member caucus, all Democrats, would not support an increase in hard-money limits.
And he said he, too, supports a cap on soft money instead of a ban. Mr. Wynn said the contested presidential election, and charges that minority voters had been disenfranchised in Florida, made him rethink his previous support for such a ban. "We need resources for voter protection to combat some of the things that happened in Florida," he said.
The A.F.L.-C.I.O., which supports a soft-money ban but opposes the restrictions on issue advertising in the Senate bill, was also willing to listen to Mr. Ney, who is not including restrictions on outside groups in his bill. Laurence E. Gold, the associate general counsel of the labor federation, which holds great sway among Democrats, said of Mr. Ney's emerging bill, "We'd certainly look at it because it sounds like it's at least partly responsive to our concerns."
Still, a number of the dissident Democrats said that despite their qualms they would work within their party and were examining such alternatives as getting rid of the inflationary index on hard money, omitting the increase, or allowing the hard-money increases to apply to Senate and presidential candidates but not House candidates.
One wild card in the debate is a Supreme Court decision expected this week. The court is to decide whether current limits on the direct help political parties can give federal candidates infringe on the right of free speech. If the court throws out the limits, Democrats in particular are likely to have new doubts about a soft-money ban, because the parties would be able to pour unlimited amounts of money into individual races.
"It would be difficult because then it adds a new dynamic to the debate," Mr. Shays said. Democrats collected $243 million in soft money in the 2000 election cycle and ran almost even with the Republicans, who took in $244 million. But Democrats lagged far behind Republicans in bringing in hard money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); VETO (77%); ETHICS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); AFFLUENT MARKET (60%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BLACKS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); SENATE (US) 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (78%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); MEEHAN, MARTIN T (REPR); MITCHELL, ALISON 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



639 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Republicans' Fight for Governor Turns Into a Real One 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: UNION CITY, N.J., June 24 

 BODY:
With the Republican primary for governor of New Jersey in its final, feverish 48 hours, tensions flared here this afternoon as supporters of Bob Franks and Bret D. Schundler scuffled on a street corner just as Mr. Schundler arrived to campaign along Bergenline Avenue.
 While there were no injuries and no arrests, the local police were called, and the fracas underscored just how tense things have become in the closing hours of the bitter primary contest between Mr. Franks, a former United States representative, and Mr. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City. 
 Each campaign cast blame on the other for the fight. And the candidates seemed to acknowledge that a little cooling might help. "At this point people are tense, but everybody needs to calm down," Mr. Franks said when asked about the incident.
The tussle, in which Mr. Schundler intervened, occurred toward the end of a long day on which the candidates hopscotched across the state making frenzied pitches for votes while their campaign teams stepped up efforts to push people to the polls through phone calls, mailings and radio and television commercials.
In a strategy shift, Mr. Schundler turned his full attention to the Democratic candidate for governor, Mayor James E. McGreevey of Woodbridge, apparently in an effort to counter repeated assertions by the Franks campaign that Mr. Schundler could not beat Mr. McGreevey in the general election.
Mr. Schundler took his campaign into Mr. McGreevey's backyard, visiting an Irish festival in Holmdel, an event that Mr. McGreevey helped sponsor. At one point Mr. Schundler brazenly approached Mr. McGreevey's booth at the fair and teasingly told the workers there that he would like their help.
Schundler supporters also turned their focus on Mr. McGreevey. The Republican Majority Issues Committee, a conservative group that is supporting Mr. Schundler, unveiled a television commercial that harshly attacks Mr. McGreevey's record on taxes and government spending.
"We truly believe that coming into this last day, that Schundler is ahead," said Steve Lonegan, the chairman of the group.
"He is going to win the primary," Mr. Lonegan continued, "and we have to start contrasting with McGreevey. We look at this as the first political commercial of the general election."
For his part, Mr. Franks stayed his course. In stops at local diners, he continued to push his new plan to cap property tax increases at the rate of inflation and attacked Mr. Schundler as too conservative to win the support of New Jersey's mostly moderate electorate.
Mr. Franks started his day in Margate, in South Jersey, where he sought to emphasize his support among the Republican establishment. He appeared on the beach with two dozen local politicians, including State Senator William Gormley.
"I can win in the general election this fall," Mr. Franks said, explaining his primary message for the final two days of the race. "That's what the people need to hear. I have the experience and the record needed to get elected."
Mr. Schundler began his day at the Irish festival in Holmdel, where he received a lukewarm reception. "He is not even Irish," said Peggy Dwyer, 48, a secretary from Long Branch.
Mr. McGreevey, the Democrat, is Irish and was embraced by the crowds. He moved through the fair outside the PNC Arts Center, shaking hands and posing for photographs. And while he did not mention his candidacy -- the event was billed as nonpartisan -- many people greeted him as "Mr. Governor."
Mr. Schundler left the fair for Union City, and the skirmish broke out as a small crowd gathered there to await his arrival. Standing amid the Schundler supporters was Aaron Keigher, 22, a Franks campaign volunteer carrying anti-Schundler placards, one of which was torn up by the angry crowd.
As Mr. Schundler stepped off his bus, Mr. Keigher was the first to greet him, screaming: "Bret, you are a liar! You're a radical! You are not in the mainstream of the party!" Schundler supporters began pushing Mr. Keigher until Mr. Schundler himself intervened and stood nose to nose with Mr. Keigher.
They argued briefly over television advertisements featuring Mr. Schundler. Later, the two campaigns gave slightly differing accounts. "I heard one of my volunteers was given a rough time," said Charlie Smith, the Franks campaign manager.
Bill Pascoe, who manages the Schundler campaign, said Mr. Keigher had inflamed the crowd. "He was lucky that we showed up," Mr. Pascoe said. "He was looking to pick a fight, and luckily sharper and cooler heads prevailed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At a campaign stop yesterday that involved a skirmish, Bret D. Schundler calmed a Franks supporter, Aaron Keigher, who had waited for his bus to arrive in Union City. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Bob Franks in Hightstown, greeting potential voters at one of many New Jersey diners he visited yesterday. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); GOVERNORS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); POLICE FORCES (71%); RADIO ADVERTISING (67%); PROPERTY TAX (62%); TAX LAW (62%); INFLATION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; SCHUNDLER, BRET D (MAYOR); FRANKS, BOB; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



640 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1955 words

HEADLINE: As Welfare Deadline Looms, Answers Don't Seem So Easy 

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The letter from New York City to welfare veterans is blunt. "Your time limits for cash assistance will be expiring this year," one version says, referring to the five-year lifetime limit on federal cash aid. "We have scheduled an appointment for you to be seen so you can discuss how you plan to manage your household expenses."
 The notice went to Angel Martinez, one of two working parents in a family of five who were getting by on low wages and their small cash aid supplement. It went to Florence Dawson, the sole parent in a family of six, who is still not working for pay, but stretches reduced benefits with dried beans and the bread she bakes. And it went to Nancy Nay, whose battles with cancer, asthma and sickle cell anemia are still interfering with her ability to participate in workfare and support her teenage daughter. 
 These are just three of the 38,800 New York City families who face a federal welfare cutoff in December. But their stories suggest that the universe of such cases is far more diverse and complex than champions and critics of time limits expected -- on the whole, they are neither the most recalcitrant nor the least resourceful of the poor. 
In about 32 percent of the cases, at least one parent has a job, like Mr. Martinez. About 22 percent are now classified by the city as noncooperative, like Ms. Dawson. The rest are divided among those doing workfare in exchange for their benefits, those in job training, those deemed by the city to be temporarily ill, disabled or elderly, and those still being assessed. Moreover, many, like Ms. Nay, have shuttled among many of these categories, for reasons sometimes lost in the bureaucracy.
The fate of families who hit their lifetime limits on aid, from whatever mix of bad luck or bad choices, has long loomed over the welfare overhaul. Would the government enforce such cutoffs, regardless of suffering? Would it take the specter of such suffering to motivate the most dependent to help themselves?
In New York City, often the epicenter of the welfare debate, such questions now look simplistic. First, the state, required by its Constitution to aid the needy, has already spread a safety net of sorts -- though how, when and for whom it will operate is still uncertain. Then, when the time limits really take hold, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who took a hard line on ending welfare during an economic boom, will have been succeeded by a new mayor facing an uncertain economic climate. 
For now, though, the Giuliani administration is pushing hard to shrink the group of families reaching their federal time limits, and the letters are part of that campaign.
"Individuals should use the five-year milestone as an important opportunity to reassess their lives and their progress toward achieving self-sufficiency," Jason A. Turner, the city's welfare commissioner, recently told a City Council committee as he announced more welfare-to-work programs. 
But what welfare officials call a milestone looks a lot like a cliff to many of the families. "Every organization that represents poor clients is getting a stream of calls saying, 'How am I going to live when my aid ends?' " said Don Friedman, a senior policy analyst at the nonprofit Community Food Resource Center, in a comment echoed by others in employment programs, settlement houses and Legal Aid offices.
The state and the city have said that those reaching the time limit would have to reapply for aid under the state-financed system known as Safety Net Assistance.
But the system, a mix of vouchers and debit cards, would significantly reduce cash benefits and is not expected to be in place until at least the spring of 2002. Moreover, some cases may be found ineligible or closed during the application process, officials and advocates said. 
A closer look at three Brooklyn families as they weigh limited options in complicated lives shows fear, confusion and even panic over the possible consequences of the time limits for their children.

Working, but Fearing a Fall
 Angel Martinez rejects the notion that he and Regla Belette, parents of three in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn, are a welfare reform success story. 
"We're giving it our best shot," said Mr. Martinez, 40, "and it seems to be backfiring in our face."
Mr. Martinez worked for years in a factory and for a music company, making $9 an hour, before he went to prison for a 1990 drug conviction. When he got out, he used public assistance to complete drug rehabilitation, excelled in his welfare-to-work training program, and was recently promoted from a cleanup crew to a warehouseman in the old Brooklyn Navy Yard. 
Ms. Belette, 26, who turned to public assistance during the three years Mr. Martinez was in prison, spent a year in a workfare assignment at a Veterans Affairs hospital, escorting mentally ill patients upstate. Now she is paid by the city to take care of her sister's three children while her sister is in a workfare assignment. 
But because of computer malfunctions, Ms. Belette's baby-sitting pay from the city was delayed for months. When the cutoff notices began coming, their cash aid had been cut to $89 every two weeks, and Mr. Martinez was earning only $6 an hour, with no benefits, he said.
And through a mix of bureaucratic errors and penalties for missed appointments -- when Ms. Belette had to tend to her sick father in Florida -- the family lost food stamps and a rent subsidy well before they started their jobs, leaving them deep in debt to the landlord. 
Recently their cash grant stopped, Mr. Martinez said, because the city says they now earn too much, about $1,500 a month, to qualify. Only if their wages drop will they be eligible for the last few months of cash aid.
But even with a recent 50-cent hourly raise, Mr. Martinez said, he feels his family is falling behind, more vulnerable than ever to a downturn in the economy. Ms. Belette fears they will have nowhere to turn in the kind of crisis that has derailed their lives before.
"Honestly, I don't know what people are going to do if they're not supposed to get help from the government," she said, explaining that the family was burned out of its apartment last year. "The Red Cross only helps you for so long," and the shelters are no place for children, she said. "Welfare tells you, 'We're going to give you transitional benefits,' but then what they're doing is just cutting you off."
Mr. Martinez said he worked all the overtime he could, but he could not give his children money for even a snack. "Somehow I've got to find a way to skimp on the food to pay the light bill," he said. "None of those welfare bureaucrats' kids is going to go hungry and cry themselves to sleep. My kids are."

Struggles and Tears
With five children to feed and educate, three of them teenagers, Florence Dawson, 42, became a master at stretching a public assistance dollar: buying flour, rice and beans in bulk; hunting down scholarships and summer jobs for the older children; and falling back on the food pantry or her church when necessary.
She always meant to attend high school equivalency classes and to show up for welfare-to-work training, she said, but every time the city summoned her, she felt her children needed her more. 
Even with the last months of her welfare clock running down, she did not see how she could break away, so she just accepted the penalties that cut her from the cash grant, leaving about $400 a month that was calculated as the children's share. The family still receives food stamps, and has been helped by the low rent for an apartment in a public housing project in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
"I'm still all alone with them, just me and God," she said. 
Last year, LeShaunda, now 9, and Takiyah, now 14, tested positive for tuberculosis; the girls, who share a bed in the family's immaculate apartment, were apparently exposed at school. For eight months, Ms. Dawson had to take them to a clinic almost daily for a supervised course of medication, according to medical records. And the youngest, Hashim, 5, also needed extra care.
"The 5-year-old came home, ringworms all over his body," Ms. Dawson said. "For Christmas he had scarlet fever." It seemed endless. "I am so strong, but I feel like giving up. Then I think, these are my children, I made them."
When the notice came, she said, she cried. She considered her seventh-grade education in Trinidad, her absent husband, and in her last housecleaning jobs, years ago, the erratic paychecks that always fell short. 
Then she made a plan.
"If push come to shove, I would have to go and take a sleep-in housekeeping job," Ms. Dawson, 42, told her 19-year-old daughter, Amalla Charles. "And you will have to be the mother of the house."
Her son Marvin, 17, plans to join the Coast Guard when he graduates from high school. Amalla, a Catholic high school graduate eager to join the Air Force, is prepared to make the sacrifice and stay home. But Ms. Dawson hates the thought.
"I just want them to be somebody and not nobody," she said.

Ailing and Close to Eviction
For Nancy Nay, 41, the time-limit letters did not evoke the fear of the unknown, but a dread of the familiar. 
"They're going to start all over again, to force me to work," said Ms. Nay, whose chronic struggles with sickle cell anemia and asthma have been compounded in the last five years by bouts with cancer and a car accident that fractured her skull. 
"I was in one of their work programs and was constantly sick -- I would have to get up and excuse myself to vomit," she recalled. "It came to the point the supervisor said, 'We're going to cut you off, you're going to lose your apartment and be on the street.' "
Ms. Nay, who had fled domestic violence when her two daughters were little, knew what it was like to be in a city shelter. And with only one daughter still at home, she stood to lose half of her grant if she did not show up. The clerical assignment, in a city office in Union Square in Manhattan, was supposed to help her become self-sufficient.
"I went to the bitter end," said Ms. Nay, who worked in a luggage factory and as a supermarket cashier when she was healthier.
But her benefits were interrupted anyway. By the time she emerged from the hospital after cancer surgery last fall, she said, she had been mistakenly deemed noncooperative, and her case had been closed, wiping out the Medicaid benefits she needed to cover medication. 
A Legal Aid lawyer recently helped Ms. Nay get her benefits reinstated retroactively. The lawyer hopes that Ms. May will ultimately qualify for Social Security as permanently disabled, or be exempted from federal time limits for hardship. But the definition of the hardship category is uncertain, and because the federal exemption can go to no more than 20 percent of a declining welfare caseload, the number of slots keeps shrinking.
Like all New Yorkers heading families reaching the time limits, Ms. Nay could apply for Safety Net Assistance, the state-financed program. But whether she could successfully make it through the application process is unclear.
Meanwhile, she is close to eviction and was without lights for a month when she could not pay the bill. With new letters warning that time is running out, and a return of her cancer symptoms, Ms. Nay decided that it was more important to fight her disease than to comply with welfare rules. 
"Some days," she said, "I can hardly get out of bed." For the moment, she has sent her daughter, Crystal, 18, to stay with her grandmother, and Ms. Nay has taken refuge herself with her married brother, Edward Nay.
A bus driver living from paycheck to paycheck in Brooklyn, Mr. Nay bought her medication when the government would not.
"What was I supposed to do?" he asked. "You cannot just abandon somebody."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Angel Martinez works at a Brooklyn Navy Yard warehouse, but he says his family is falling behind.; Florence Dawson, with four of her five children, from left, LeShaunda, Marvin, Takiyah and Amalla Charles. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); PARENTS (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); MAYORS (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%) BERNSTEIN, NINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



641 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 893 words

HEADLINE: Media; 
Early buzz gives Fox a new hit with an hour-by-hour thriller.

BYLINE:  By Bill Carter 

 BODY:
THE buildup to every television season starts out like the buildup to the Kentucky Derby: the field is just a herd of unknown horses until the smart talk picks out the favorite.
 The smart talk has started early this season, among advertisers in New York, agents in Hollywood and executives at every television network: a new Fox drama, "24," is the hot show to watch. 
 With a kicky, highly original format -- a thriller that will play out in 24 episodes, each representing an hour of a day run off in real time -- and a crackerjack pilot that had many viewers asking immediately to see the second episode, "24" is already the most anticipated new show of the season.
Like the reality shows that have commanded audiences by simply looking so different from everything else on television, "24" is grabbing attention by shaking up the conventions of television storytelling, creating a show in which, in concept at least, every minute counts. 
The momentum behind the series is evident in the deep strategizing going on inside Fox to guarantee that the show has a strong start, and the equally deep strategizing inside rival networks about how to derail this potential prime-time express train.
Or as one program executive at a competing network put it: "We're going to do everything we can to kill this puppy before it can get started."
The theory is that the same real-time format that makes the show so exciting is also what makes it potentially vulnerable. The story line of "24" will trace the efforts of a C.I.A. agent, played by Kiefer Sutherland, to thwart a plot to assassinate a presidential candidate. Each episode will sequentially cover one hour of the agent's day, with the first starting just after midnight. 
"If we can get people to miss the first two or three hours, who is going to want to join a show to see what's happening to this guy at 4 a.m.?" the rival network executive said.
But television shows are not offered to viewers the same way they used to be: one shot a week to live or die. It is a multiplex world on television now, where, even with network shows, a prime-time slot may only represent a first screening. Fox executives have no intention of sending "24" out just once to face whatever the other networks can throw against it.
"We're flattered the other networks are concerned," says Sandy Grushow, the chairman of Fox Entertainment. "But this train is going to be full when it leaves the station."
Without revealing exactly what Fox will do, Mr. Grushow said viewers will have multiple opportunities to see the first episode of the show. One senior Fox executive predicted, "The audience will be able to see the first episode three or four times in the first week or two."
Fox is clearly planning to rely on "repurposing," the concept that the networks are increasingly using to squeeze the most juice out of episodes. That means finding a cable network to carry episodes of a series the same week they air on a network.
Fox, a unit of the News Corporation, has no such deal for "24" yet but surely will by September, with its sister cable channel FX the probable venue.
Still, Fox first faces one big decision: whether to start the show in September, to play into the expected swirl of attention that would be unleashed on "24" in the wave of media previews of the fall season; or far later, in November, after the two solid weeks of post-season baseball that will appear on Fox.
With "24" possibly more vulnerable to viewer defections than nonsequential series, interrupting its run could be especially risky. Mr. Grushow said, "If I had to bet, I'd say we'll wait until after baseball."
Whenever it starts, the show will inevitably be compared to a series in 1995 that tried to tell one story all season long, the late ABC effort "Murder One." That show, which followed a murder trial for a full season, may be remembered as a failure; but, in fact, it had a sensational start after being that season's much-heralded newcomer.
ABC made one fatal error. It scheduled "Murder One" against "ER" in the second year of that NBC juggernaut. "Murder One" was done.
Joel Surnow and Bob Cochran, the two long-time television writers who created "24," have repeatedly heard the "Murder One" comparisons; naturally they see nothing but differences.
"We're a kind of action show," Mr. Surnow said. " 'Murder One' was a cerebral, talky show about every kind of legal procedure."
One comparison to "Murder One" that is harder to dismiss is how "24" can possibly pay off economically; it seems to have no chance to be repeated successfully, either on the network or in syndication. Mr. Cochran said he and Mr. Surnow had assured the Fox executives that the stories would "contain some degree of closure" every week and would not always depend on pursuing the assassination plot alone.
But will anyone watch episodes of an edge-of-the-seat thriller a second time? Fox seems to be avoiding the question, pointing first to money that can be made from the repurposing sale to a cable network and then to the foreign sales for "24," which one Fox executive reported to be among the best in the network's history.
That still leaves a final question: What happens in Year 2 of "24?" Does the hero pull another all-nighter to save the country?
"Sure," Mr. Surnow said. "Other things can happen. There could be a nuclear bomb about to go off in New York City."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kiefer Sutherland stars as a C.I.A. agent in "24." (Fox) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); TRAINS (70%); ASSASSINATION (65%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%) TELEVISION 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FOX NETWORK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: KIEFER SUTHERLAND (89%) CARTER, BILL; SUTHERLAND, KIEFER 

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: TWENTY-FOUR (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



642 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Two Banks in Germany Reach a Merger Agreement
Two of Germany's rival cooperative banks, DG Bank and GZ Bank, agreed to merge, creating Germany's sixth-largest bank, with about $257 billion in assets.
 The deal is the latest turn in the fitful consolidation among Germany's financial institutions. The companies, which are not publicly traded, valued the deal at $10.4 billion based on audits of their operations. Page C2. 

I.B.M. to Unveil Fast Transistor
I.B.M. plans to announce today what it calls the fastest silicon-based transistor, an advanced device that it said would drive the highest-performance communications systems to speeds of 100 gigahertz within two years. The transistor represents an 80 percent increase in performance and a 50 percent reduction in power consumption over current designs. C6.

For 'South Park,' 162 Curse Words
In an episode intended in part to question why certain words are taboo, the Comedy Central series "South Park" used one curse word 162 times last week. Before last week, foul language was always bleeped out, save for the first consonants of some words. Comedy Central said, however, that this did not mean that the "South Park" characters would curse indiscriminately or that it would lift a general policy against uncensored cursing. C9.

A new generation of radio "shock jocks" who base their shows in large part on the success of Howard Stern are taking their lack of inhibitions further. And in the case of "Opie and Anthony" in New York, the hosts are gaining a larger audience through syndication. C9.

Online Lessons From Staples.com
Staples.com, which was set up as a separate unit of Staples, the office supply chain, but then folded into its catalog operations when the dot-com frenzy faded, has emerged as a vital part of Staples' strategy, offering lessons for other chief executives faced with re-evaluating their e-business strategies. New Economy. C4.

Fox Draws Early Buzz With '24'
The early talk among advertisers, agents and network executives is that "24," a Fox drama, is the hot new show to watch. The story line, which traces the efforts of a C.I.A. agent to thwart a plot to assassinate a presidential candidate, will play out in 24 episodes, each representing an hour of a day in real time. The momentum is evident in the deep strategizing going on inside Fox to guarantee that the show has a strong start, and the equally deep strategizing inside rivals to counter it. Media. C9.

The Evolution of Online Animators
Most online television companies that once sprouted in San Francisco and Silicon Alley have faded out. Critics say these companies miscalculated how long it would take for high-speed Internet connections to spread into homes and offices. Two of the most prominent companies left standing, Visionary Media, the producer of an animated series called "WhirlGirl," and Bullseye Art, are trying to stay alive by using the technology and techniques they developed for Web animation to create broadcast television programming more quickly and cheaply. C4.

Looking for Friends by Subscription
Two Web sites that help people get reacquainted with long-lost friends are building their businesses through subscriptions. But it remains to be seen whether the companies can have those customers renew their subscriptions, and they are broadening their strategies. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.

Campaign for New Clairol Hair Dye
Clairol is introducing a campaign for a line of hair dyes called Herbal Essences True Intense Color. Unlike other Clairol hair-color lines, the new offshoot of Herbal Essences is meant not to cover gray hair but to change hair to light from dark or vice versa. Advertising. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 10,604.59 down 19.05Nasdaq composite -- 2.034.84 up 6.4110-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.12% down 0.12The euro -- $0.8562 down 0.0056The dollar -- 124.33 yen up 1.25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (88%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (86%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (73%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); NEW ECONOMY (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (63%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (63%); ASSASSINATION (62%); EXECUTIVES (61%); ANIMATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%) GERMANY (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



643 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 897 words

PERSON: Donald L. Kohn 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Beyond the Limelight, an Adviser Helps Guide the Fed

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the Federal Reserve finishes a two-day meeting on Wednesday and announces to an anxiously waiting world whether it is cutting interest rates for a sixth time this year, the statement explaining its decision will, of course, reflect the thinking of Alan Greenspan, the central bank's chairman. 
 But it will also bear the fingerprints of Donald L. Kohn, an economist who is little known outside the Fed but who, within it, is among Mr. Greenspan's most trusted advisers. 
 Hewing strictly to the Washington code that staff people should keep their names out of the newspapers -- and never claim credit for the work they do on behalf of their better-known bosses -- Mr. Kohn has long resisted efforts to drag him into the limelight. 
Once talked into an interview in his spacious but spare office a floor above the boardroom where the Fed makes its interest rate decisions, he is gracious but circumspect, clearly more comfortable discussing the latest trend in productivity than himself.
He is an avid sailor. He is a proud but youthful grandfather at 58. He is still a little awed to find himself at ground zero of economic policy making but professes to be comfortable with the pressure that comes with the task of helping to keep the nation's prosperity intact.
"I have on occasion said to my wife that I couldn't have imagined in the late 1960's, as I was studying monetary policy and what it should and shouldn't be doing, that I would actually be sitting around the table, talking to and briefing the people making that policy."
Throughout Mr. Greenspan's 14-year tenure as Fed chairman, Mr. Kohn has counseled the central bank's board of governors on monetary policy and in recent years has emerged as the most influential of the 220 economists who serve on the Fed's staff in Washington.
As director of the Fed's division of monetary affairs, he was at Mr. Greenspan's side when the stock market melted down in 1987. He was there as the Fed coped with the deep troubles that afflicted banks in the early 1990's. He helped shape the response to the global financial crisis in 1998. 
Now, as he works with Mr. Greenspan and other Fed officials to keep the slowing economy from sinking into recession, Mr. Kohn is leaving his position in monetary affairs to take on an amorphous but potentially more influential role as adviser to the central bank's board. 
The change is intended to give Mr. Kohn more time to act as a sounding board, researcher and intellectual sparring partner for Mr. Greenspan and the Fed's other governors as they seek to understand the changing economy and the ways interest rate policy can affect it. 
He will also continue to play a role in drafting testimony, speeches and the statements the Fed issues each time it meets to reconsider interest rates. (Whether Mr. Kohn contributes to Mr. Greenspan's often tortured syntax and studied ambiguity or fights to minimize them remains their secret.)
"My expertise is in taking the inputs from other people and trying to figure out the monetary policy implications, the strategy and tactics of policy under these circumstances," Mr. Kohn said. "That's what I'd like to have more time to think about."
There has long been speculation and debate among Fed watchers about the degree of influence exerted by staff members over Mr. Greenspan and the other governors. Inside the Fed, some governors have complained that the staff was controlled too much by Mr. Greenspan. Unlike the governors, who are appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, staff members are not subject to direct public oversight. But they participate in the most secret debates in an institution that does most of its work behind closed doors.
MR. KOHN dismissed any suggestion that he and other senior staff members were the true power at the Fed.
"I don't recognize the caricature of the powerful Fed staff members, the barons, who dictate policy to board members," he said. "That just has never happened, at least while I've been in a position to observe what's happening. Board members have their own views. They can and do ask us from time to time, 'What would you do in this situation?' But it's always very clear in the end who's making the decision, which is appropriate legally and constitutionally." 
Current and former board members agreed. But they said Mr. Kohn was far more than a number cruncher. "It's not just facts, but a judgment as to why the facts are what they are," Mr. Greenspan said. "As a consequence, he has a fairly significant influence because we trust his judgment. I've been working with him for 14 years, and his judgment has stood up against reality remarkably well." 
Mr. Kohn has two grown children and a grandson. His wife, Gail, runs a retirement community in Virginia. He grew up near Philadelphia, finished working on his Ph.D. in economics at the University of Michigan in 1969 and started his career at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City at the beginning of 1970. 
He moved to the Fed in 1975, and has worked his way up, enjoying the combination of an intellectual challenge equal to that in any academic institution while facing the ultimate real-world challenge for an economist.
"If you are interested in making macroeconomic policy and helping to improve this economy, to make it work as well as it can," Mr. Kohn said, "there is no more relevant place than the Federal Reserve system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: DONALD L. KOHN (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECESSION (76%); TRENDS (72%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

ALAN GREENSPAN (89%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; KOHN, DONALD L; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



644 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Essay; 
The Henny Poll

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
To the question "How's your wife?" the comedian Henny Youngman would reply "compared to who?" He should have said with whom, of course, but the political point is valid: between campaigns, those polled tend to judge incumbents in a vacuum. We will put that right today.
 Much was made of a New York Times/CBS News poll showing a four-point dip in Bush the Younger's job approval ratings over the past month. However, the Gallup poll showed virtually no change in that period, and the most recent Zogby survey showed a bump upward for Bush. 
 The lesson: put not your faith in pollsters, especially when they offer their interviewees no alternative. Instead, measure your opinion of the president against those who may be running against him in a few short years. Here is the early-morning line handicapped by one right-wing tout: 
Tom Daschle (4-1), sure to command regular national TV coverage as Senate majority leader. An amiable partisan who is always on message and regularly on the record, he is attractive to Democratic nominating constituencies. Drawbacks: South Dakota is uncoastal, and his Senate power carries the risk of chronic oppositionitis or too-frequent compromise, as well as suffocation in legislative detail. 
Joe Biden ( 5-1), new chairman of Foreign Relations, which guarantees serious exposure at times of global tension; quick mind, has been on the track before and will plagiarize nothing. Needs identification with a domestic issue; nobly shies from muddy track. 
Richard Gephardt (15-1), knows too much about too many issues; needs speakership in 2002 to be taken seriously, at which point he'd have to be a crazy gambler to run. Ever-lengthening long shot. 
John Edwards (9-1), good-looking, hyperarticulate trial lawyer from North Carolina, frequently mentioned by future-wavers. Will be closely associated with likely H.M.O. lawsuits. Adept in debate, though light on gravitas; needs to avoid appearance of slickness. Shows too much early media foot, but his fund-raisers can belly up to the plaintiff bar. 
John Kerry (4-1), Massachusetts New Democrat with good financing, multilateralist impulses and a passion for preventing drilling in pristine Arctic wastes. Studious and serious. Must overcome perpetually worried look and will have to advertise heavily coming out of the starting gate to show he's "not that Kerrey." 
Pat Leahy (6-1), Vermont chairman of Judiciary who will become nationally known at storm center of Supreme Court confirmations. Comes across on TV as soft-spoken but hardheaded; was loyal and effective Clinton defender. Starts far off pace and on the outside but could close unexpectedly in stretch. 
Joe Lieberman (5-1), now a familiar face with few negatives who would deliver centrist and faith-based voters. Will attract new attention overseeing Government Operations when scandals bloom, and is well positioned with his "new prosperity" in case of recession. Problem: has pledged not to compete with Al Gore for nomination. If Gore issues a Coolidge statement ("I do not choose to run"), lower Lieberman odds to 3-1. 
Chris Dodd (4-1), combination of heart and head appeals to old Clintonites, Catholic, can run knowledgably in domestic or international turf. Workhorse rather than show horse, partisan but not unreasonable, experienced on TV, his time may be coming. As with Leahy, you read it in this tip sheet first. 
Russell Feingold (8-1), youthful, idealistic, courage of his convictions (he eschewed soft money and yet won in Wisconsin). Needs identification with issue other than campaign finance reform. If backed by an off-reservation McCain, could offer delegates capture of the center. 
Al Gore (2-1), wise to lie low for first Bush year, his course will become clear if he decides to campaign widely for Congressional Democrats next year. Sly slogan: "Re-elect Gore in Two Thousand Four." Overweight or trim; dismissed as an old face by resentful party strategists or supported quietly by soccer moms in primary states; helped or hindered by distance from Clinton -- it's Al against the field. 
Now you're ready for the Henny pollster's call: "How's your candidate?" Do you prefer Bush -- or one of the above? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LAWYERS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); PLAGIARISM (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%); JOE BIDEN (57%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (55%); TOM DASCHLE (52%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



645 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: The White House and the Mideast 

 BODY:
Israel's prime minister, Ariel Sharon, is scheduled to meet with President Bush in the White House tomorrow for the second time in a little more than three months. By contrast, Mr. Bush has issued no invitations to the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, who was a frequent White House visitor during the Clinton administration. This distinction has led to some bruised diplomatic feelings on the Palestinian side. Yet for now, it is appropriate. 
 A White House meeting confers considerable prestige. Mr. Arafat was never received there until he renounced political violence and agreed to peace negotiations with Israel. For most of the past nine months he has gone back on those commitments and encouraged a violent new Palestinian uprising. Only recently has he made any serious effort to restrain terrorism and armed clashes. Almost daily, the current fragile cease-fire is tested by new violence. A more sustained truce is needed before Mr. Arafat is invited to the White House again. 
 Rightly, the United States has not cut Mr. Arafat off altogether. Mr. Bush has not hesitated to speak with him on the telephone. Secretary of State Colin Powell expects to meet with Mr. Arafat during his Mideast trip this week, as he did on his previous trip to the region in February. Such working contacts are useful and American efforts to promote a cease-fire and eventual resumption of peace talks would be hobbled without them. 
The administration has wisely overcome its reluctance to engage in high-level Mideast diplomacy. It has come to recognize the danger of a vastly expanded conflict, especially after the terrorist bombing of a Tel Aviv disco that killed 21 young Israelis earlier this month. It has also seen, through the successful cease-fire negotiations concluded last week by George Tenet, the director of central intelligence, how important and constructive a role America can play when Israelis and Palestinians are both seeking ways to contain the violence. But the fragility of the cease-fire was underscored yesterday when a Palestinian militant leader in Nablus was killed in an explosion. 
Mr. Sharon's visit can strengthen the shaky truce. The Israeli leader has a reputation for hawkishness. But in recent weeks he has resisted right-wing pressures for strong military retaliation against the Palestinians. Mr. Bush, by extending his personal support to Mr. Sharon at this time, can usefully reinforce the Israeli leader's political position at home and encourage continued restraint. 
Secretary Powell's trip to the region, his second this year, is also timely. While there, he plans to meet with leaders from Egypt, Jordan, Israel and perhaps Saudi Arabia, as well as with Mr. Arafat. If the cease-fire continues to hold, Secretary Powell will try to encourage Israelis and Palestinians to begin rebuilding trust and communications. The first steps should include efforts by the Palestinian Authority to collect illegal guns and prevent terrorist attacks and moves by Israel to lift economic blockades of Palestinian areas.
Moving forward on this agenda depends on Mr. Arafat's demonstrating a firm commitment to sustain and enforce the current truce. So should his next White House visit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CONTUSIONS (76%); BOMBINGS (74%); RIOTS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; PALESTINIANS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) ARAFAT, YASIR; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



646 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1883 words

HEADLINE: Bush's Vow to Cut Ship Program Gets Strong Resistance From Lott 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
The last time a passenger cruise ship was built in the United States was in 1958. But right now, in a Mississippi shipyard in the home state of Senator Trent Lott, the Republican minority leader, two 1,900-passenger ships together costing more than $1 billion are under construction -- thanks to a government program the Bush administration has called corporate welfare and wants to eliminate.
 Would these cruise ships have gotten financing without government help? Most likely not. And that simple fact is at the heart of a broader struggle now taking place in Washington over President Bush's target list of business-related programs he wants eliminated, everything from the Export-Import Bank to programs supporting high-tech research, corporate worker retraining and small businesses. 
 First on the list, and the test case for the president's effort, is a loan guarantee program designed to encourage commercial shipbuilding. Called the Title XI Maritime Guarantee Loan Subsidy Program, it provides government guarantees so that shipbuilders can borrow from investors at low cost and with little risk. 
The Bush administration wants no new money spent on the program, which has helped finance some $6 billion in commercial shipbuilding projects since 1993. But a total of 38 senators from both parties, including 10 members of the Senate appropriations committee, have signed a letter circulated by Senator Lott saying they want to triple funds for the program in the next budget, to $100 million, which would be its highest-ever level.
Between these two numbers, zero and $100 million, lies a debate over the role of government in private businesses, a potentially bruising battle in Congress, a larger discussion over whether commercial shipbuilding is needed to protect the military industrial base and much handwringing over the inability of many United States commercial shipyards to compete in the world marketplace without government help. Some say the program is essential to protect domestic shipbuilding. Others say that is exactly the problem -- the government is propping up an industry that is commercially uncompetitive.
"This is a corporate subsidy that everyday taxpayers should not have to support," said Chris Ullman, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, which is leading the administration's effort.
Announcing that the shipbuilding program will be cut is the easy part; fighting influential members of Congress seeking to triple its size is another. "Congress's record in cutting corporate subsidies has been pretty unimpressive," said Steven Moore, senior fellow at the Cato Institute in Washington. "These programs are important in home districts. The shipbuilding program will probably be preserved because of the people of Mississippi. You've got two powerful senators who will fight vigorously to protect the subsidies."
The passenger cruise ship program -- called Project America -- is an example of both the support the administration wants to cut, and of the industry's power in Congress. Government loan guarantees are being used to back up more than $1 billion in debt issued by the American Classic Voyages Company, which is building the two ships at Ingalls Shipbuilding in Pascagoula, Miss., to carry tourists around the Hawaiian islands.
Should American Classic default on its debt, the guarantees mean that the government would pick up the tab. The guarantee saves American Classic money by enabling the company to issue debt at a lower cost and for a longer term than it could without it. In fact, given how risky the project is, American Classic probably would not have otherwise been able to borrow at all.
Moreover, when American Classic, whose chairman and leading investor is Sam Zell, a Chicago billionaire best-known for investing in distressed companies, decided in 1997 to build the two ships, it got a powerful push from Congress. Tucked into the fine print of a military appropriations measure was language giving American Classic a 30-year monopoly on the cruise ship trade in Hawaii. No other United States-flagged cruise ship can call on Hawaii, although foreign-flagged carriers sailing from distant, less-attractive ports in Mexico or Canada still can.
"Title XI loan guarantees were critical to our shipbuilding project," said Cornel Martin, vice president for corporate affairs at American Classic. "Without them, I'm not sure the project would have been feasible."
The backers of loan guarantees are mobilizing their forces. A newly founded "Title XI Coalition" of shipyards, maritime unions, ship owners and operators and maritime suppliers, is making the rounds of Congress, lining up support. In New York last week, at a meeting of maritime financiers, the rallying cry was issued during a panel discussion, as that well-heeled crowd was urged not to let the administration "take out the long knives."
Backed with statistics and pleas to patriotism and national self-interest, supporters say these loan guarantees cost the government no money. Further, they calculate that the government has earned $83 million from the program in the form of fees over the years -- a fact the Maritime Administration, which administers the loan guarantees, says is impossible to check for accuracy.
Supporters say the loans backed by the guarantees, with a default rate of less than 1 percent, have breathed life into a moribund commercial shipbuilding industry, reviving many shipyards that would face financial ruin without them. If that happens, they say, the United States would lose critical shipbuilding skills, especially as the volume of military shipbuilding hits new lows. The program has enough money to guarantee $420 million more in shipbuilding projects, while 145 projects, valued at $4.7 billion, are seeking guarantees.
"We don't buy the corporate welfare tag line," said Darrell L. Conner, a lobbyist for the Title XI Coalition. "If Title XI is eliminated a number of shipbuilding projects that would otherwise be completed will not be. The maritime industry is not the best investment in the world. If we lose, it would be a devastating blow to our U.S. maritime industry."
At the moment, it generally costs about twice as much to build a commercial vessel -- whether a tanker, a cargo vessel or a cruise ship -- in the United States than it does overseas, where lower labor costs, advanced technology, indirect government supports and greater manufacturing efficiencies have brought shipbuilding costs down. The world commercial shipbuilding market is dominated by South Korea, Japan and the European Union.
Backers of loan guarantees say they are needed to make United States commercial vessels even remotely affordable. A federal law dating back to the 1930's, called the Jones Act, requires that all ships traveling between any two United States ports be United States-built and staffed. Ship owners say if they are required to "build American" they need government help to do so.
"Title XI makes buying ships in this country more affordable," said John E. Graykowski, former program administrator at the federal Maritime Administration. "You tell me how this industry will be better off if we take away this terribly modest level of support."
While the loan guarantee program has been on the books for decades, it remained dormant until 1993, when President Bill Clinton and Congress revived it and commercial shipbuilding began to spring to life. The program remained wildly popular in Congress. Last year, when the administration asked for $2 million, Congress increased it to $30 million. The federal money goes into a reserve fund, allowing the government to back about $20 in loans for every $1 in the reserve.
But as the program has grown, so has the opposition. Critics say the government has no business choosing winners and losers among industries, and question whether Title XI is the best way to maintain shipbuilding skills, if they are needed at all. Military shipyards have generally failed miserably in commercial shipbuilding, racking up cost overruns and defaults.
"There is no justification for these subsidies," said Mr. Moore of the Cato Institute. "The best way to promote industry is not to get into the game of picking industries for support. They are taxing the healthy to subsidize the unhealthy."
Still others question why the government is backing a business that private investors often find too risky. Rather then helping the shipbuilding industry, these loan guarantees enable shipyards to avoid making the changes needed to become globally competitive, they say.
One of the biggest critics is Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican, who put the American Classic deal on his annual "pork" list. He questions whether the guarantees have any military-related benefits.
"We've allowed a shipbuilding culture to develop that is largely noncompetitive," said Rob Freeman, a staff member of the Senate Commerce Committee, where Senator McCain is the ranking Republican. "There is little evidence that Uncle Sam has ever saved a dime on a naval ship because yards are building commercial ships."
Moreover, said Joe Hovorka, an analyst with the brokerage firm Raymond James, commercial and naval ship technology can differ greatly. "On a cruise ship," he said, "1,900 passengers have to plug in their hair dryers at once. That doesn't happen on a Navy ship." 
Since 1993, a total of 561 vessels and drilling rigs have been backed by Title XI loan guarantees. Much of the financing has gone to smaller shipyards, which have better track records of on-time delivery and holding down costs than big military yards. The program's administrators get high marks in the industry for professionalism and for applying sound economic principles in picking projects to approve.
But there have been some notable failures. Over the strong objections of the Maritime Administration, Congress waived a requirement in 1996 that loan guarantees be made only to economically sound projects and forced the agency to approve a $55 million guarantee to overhaul the Fore River Shipyard in Quincy, Mass. The project was pushed by the Massachusetts Congressional delegation to bring back that state's once-prominent shipbuilding industry.
Within four years, the project failed and the government had to cover the debt. Awaiting final figures, the General Accounting Office estimates taxpayer losses at $38 million.
Another failure was the Sea Rex Project, a plan to build four offshore drilling rigs at Ingalls Shipbuilding, where the American Classic ships are being made. A total of $44 million in loan guarantees were provided, but the Sea Rex project quickly ran into trouble with shoddy construction, cost overruns and delays. Ultimately, the company making the rigs filed for bankruptcy and the rigs were chopped up for scrap, leaving creditors, including the government, in the lurch.
Still, the Ingalls Shipyard, which in 1958 produced the last two United States passenger ships -- the Argentina and the Brazil -- is pushing ahead on the two American Classic cruise ships. Although industry experts say the project is already falling behind schedule both the shipyard and American Classic say they expect the ships to be delivered on time and on budget.
Said Mr. Martin of American Classic: "We're not at the point of panicking."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Subsidies for Ships"Each year, Congress has appropriated millions of dollars to guarantee loans to commercial ship builders. Advocates say that guaranteeing the loans is the only way to make building these ships affordable in the United States. The Bush Administration wants to cut the program, calling it corporate welfare. Graph showing the total loans guaranteed from 1995 to 2001. Graph showing the number of projects supported by loans from 1995 to 2001. Graph showing money appropriated to cover loans to 1995 to 2001. PROJECTS APPROVED IN 2001 Company: Rowan CompaniesProject: Offshore drilling rigLoan (millions): $187.3 Company: Vessel Management ServicesProject: Two tug bargesLoan (millions): 58.7 Company: Vessel LeasingProject: 170 covered hopper bargesLoan (millions): 43.5 Company: Kvaerner ShipholdingProject: Container carrierLoan (millions): 37.5 Company: Great Pacific NW Cruise LineProject: Cruise shipLoan (millions): 35.5 All figures are for fiscal years ended Sept. 30.(Source: United States Maritime Administration)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING (93%); MARINE VESSELS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CRUISES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); EXPORT IMPORT BANKING (69%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (63%) SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; CREDIT; FINANCES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) LOTT, TRENT (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WAYNE, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) MISSISSIPPI; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



647 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Miners' Union Sees Opportunity in Bush Policy 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: FAIRFAX, Va., June 19 

 BODY:
The United Mine Workers, once the nation's most powerful union, has declined more than any other labor group, its working membership having plunged to 30,000, from more than 700,000 six decades ago.
 But now, because of President Bush's coal-friendly energy plan, the union hopes it can end its slide. 
 After endorsing Vice President Al Gore for president, the union is praising Mr. Bush, hoping his plan, which encourages coal production, will enable it to begin reversing a decline in power and membership that paralleled the long decline in the importance of coal. 
"Now is a very advantageous time for us, not only at the negotiating table but in bringing in new miners," Cecil Roberts, the union's president, said in an interview at union headquarters here.
Mr. Roberts may be overly optimistic, experts say.
The industry is scrambling to increase output in response to higher prices and the construction of dozens of coal-fired power plants, but the bad news for the union is that most coal is being mined in the largely nonunionized West and that companies have become experts in defeating unionization drives.
"If the union doubles from 30,000 to 60,000 members that would be quite an accomplishment," Michael LeRoy, a professor of labor relations at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, said. 
This would still be a far cry from 60 years ago, when the union was at its peak, renowned for its militancy and its legendary president, John L. Lewis.
"John L. Lewis was the second most powerful man in the country," Mr. Roberts said. "Only the president of the United States was more powerful."
In Lewis's time the union controlled congressmen and county governments, but with the steep decline in membership has come a steep drop in political influence.
Many political experts said Mr. Gore lost West Virginia because many miners bucked their union's endorsement of him, out of fear that he would move aggressively against global warming, crippling coal production.
"The union wasn't that effective, obviously," David R. Tyson, chairman of the West Virginia Republican Party, said.
The union is trying to capitalize on the increase in coal production and prices by asking the Bituminous Coal Operators Association to negotiate a new contract now, though the agreement does not expire for 18 months.
Mr. Roberts said the resurgence of coal should make it easier to organize miners after the difficulties in doing so in the 1990's, when the union's membership plunged to 30,000 from 50,000, though coal production increased nationally. 
Union officials attribute the membership decline to the Clean Air Act of 1990, which required the use of more low-sulfur coal. Coal producers moved from heavily unionized Appalachia to the West, which is rich in low-sulfur coal.
With coal prices low and many mines closing in the 1990's, companies threatened to close their mines if the workers voted to unionize. Union officials say that miners no longer need fear such closings and that the time is ripe to expand by organizing more miners.
"I'm sure the nonunion operators will try real hard to keep out the union," John David, an economics professor at the West Virginia University Institute of Technology in Montgomery, said. 
William Raney, president of the West Virginia Coal Association, said coal output was picking up in the East, partly because many new power plants were being built there.
"People have more confidence; they've got a smile on their face right now," Mr. Raney said. He declined to comment on the union's hopes for a rebound.
Union officials were delighted by Mr. Bush's call to build 1,300 power plants and by his rejection of the Kyoto agreement on global warming, which would limit carbon emissions and which union officials say would be ineffective and costly.
"I'm not embarrassed to say coal miners should have the right to continued employment," Mr. Roberts said. "I'm not going to run away from defending their jobs."
But he insisted that his union was concerned about global warming, saying it supported research to find ways to burn fossil fuels without releasing carbon dioxide. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); MINE WORKERS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (89%); MINING OUTPUT (89%); COAL MINING (89%); COAL PRICES (89%); COAL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POWER PLANTS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); COAL MARKETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); MINE CLOSINGS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (68%); COUNTIES (63%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) COAL; ENERGY AND POWER; MINES AND MINING; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED MINE WORKERS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); AL GORE (57%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2001 



648 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Canadian Company to Buy A U.S. Miner for $2.3 Billion 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: TORONTO, June 25 

 BODY:
A Canadian company is acquiring the Homestake Mining Company, one of the oldest American mining operations and owner of the legendary Homestake mine in the Black Hills of South Dakota.
 In a stock deal worth more than $2.3 billion (United States), the Barrick Gold Corporation of Toronto, already one of the largest gold producers in the world, said today that it would take over the operations of Homestake and create a combined company with a market capitalization of $9 billion (United States). 
 The new company, which will use the Barrick name, will become the second-largest gold producer in the world behind Anglo American P.L.C. It will have as many as 10,000 employees on four continents. 
The acquisition comes at time of increasing troubles for the gold industry. Gold has lost a third of its value since 1996, as inflation fears have eased and gold buying fever has subsided. Demand has slumped and mining risk has increased as explorations have shifted to less politically stable countries. 
Randall Oliphant, the president and chief executive of Barrick, said that the primary advantage of the new company would be its North American administration and its low-cost, efficient mines in North America and Australia. 
In addition, he said, the merged company will be mining in Tanzania, Chile and Peru, but with Barrick's substantially enhanced resources, the company will be able to cover that increased risk comfortably. 
"We will have the best geo-political profile of any gold mining company in the world," Mr. Oliphant said at a news conference today in Toronto. 
Under the merger agreement, Homestake shareholders will receive 0.53 of a Barrick share -- a premium of 31 percent above Homestake's closing price of $6.65 on Friday on the New York Stock Exchange.
"A premium of 31 percent is fair," said Michael Durose, a gold analyst with Morgan Stanley in Toronto. He said Barrick and Homestake were well-run companies that would do a good job consolidating operations. "There's a lot of hidden value here." 
For Homestake, this is a bittersweet moment. This year is the 125th anniversary of the Homestake gold strike in the Black Hills of what became South Dakota. Since 1876, more than 38 million ounces of gold have been extracted from the Homestake mine, said Jack Thompson, the chief executive of Homestake.
There is still some gold and other minerals in the historic mine, he said, but the cost of removing them has become so expensive that the mine will be closed this year. 
That follows a pattern that Homestake has used for the last decade as it tried to transform itself from a high-cost operation to a more tightly run, highly automated outfit with stakes in newer, more profitable and less costly mines outside North America. 
Combining the company and eliminating duplicated administrative and exploration costs could save as much as $55 million a year, executives said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Staking a Claim"Barrick Gold's $2.3 billion acquisition of Homestake Mining would create the world's second largest gold mining company. Graph tracks Barrick Gold and Homestake Mining share price since March.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (91%); GOLD MINING (90%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); INFLATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) GOLD; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (95%); ANGLO AMERICAN PLC (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BARRICK GOLD CORP; HOMESTAKE MINING CO 

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (95%); ABX (NYSE) (95%); ANAAL (JSE) (91%); AAM (SWX) (91%); AAL (LSE) (91%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (95%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (95%); NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322211 CORRUGATED & SOLID FIBER BOX MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%) CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); PERU (79%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



649 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 36 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO RISES. The euro rose as reports of slowing German inflation fueled speculation the European Central Bank would lower interest rates. In New York, the euro settled at 85.95 cents, up from 85.62 cents on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since Jan., 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (86%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE; GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



650 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Watch Exports Fell 2.2% in May 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: BIEL, Switzerland, June 25 

 BODY:
Swiss watch exports fell 2.2 percent by value in May because of slower economic growth in the United States and two fewer working days than in May a year earlier, the Federation of Swiss Watch Makers said today.
 The value of timepieces, movements, components and clocks fell to 909 million Swiss francs ($515 million) in May, the federation said, without giving comparative figures. 
Sales rose 7.1 percent in the first five months of the year, it said, while the volume of completed watches declined 8.9 percent. 
 "This divergent trend is explained by the confirmed success of fine quality watches, primarily gold products," the federation said in a statement on its Web site.
The value of gold watch exports rose 36 percent, to 1.1 billion francs in the first five months, while platinum watches posted a 70 percent gain, according to the federation.
Exports to the United States, the biggest market, slipped 19 percent in May amid slower economic growth. 
Several makers of luxury goods, like the Gucci Group, have cut their forecast for full-year sales, blaming the weaker American economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); CLOCK & WATCH MFG (92%); FINE WATCHES (92%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); WEB SITES (53%) WATCHES AND CLOCKS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SALES; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERATION OF SWISS WATCH MAKERS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (91%) SWITZERLAND

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



651 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1796 words

HEADLINE: Their Financial Crisis Past, Thais Remain Disillusioned; 
Harsh I.M.F. Remedies Stir Go-It-Alone Attitude

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BANGKOK 

 BODY:
Nearly four years after it devalued its currency, unleashing an economic typhoon across Asia, Thailand is still reeling. And while the storm has passed, its aftereffects have proved stubbornly hard to shake, leaving this country in chronic distress.
 Thailand's banks are hobbled by bad debt; many of its biggest companies are bankrupt; and its fragile recovery is sputtering, hurt by the economic slump in the United States, Europe and Japan. 
 For many Thais, the latest setback confirms what they had suspected since the crisis of 1997-98 -- that their country can no longer depend on the global economy. Once the darling of the International Monetary Fund and foreign investors, Thailand is turning inward under the weight of its troubles. 
With many neighbors in similar or worse straits, some analysts say that Thailand's nativism could take root elsewhere in Asia. From Malaysia to Taiwan, people are struggling to live without the export-led growth that lifted them out of poverty in the last 20 years. Bewildered and bitter, they are starting to question the economic policies that have been a model for the region.
"People on the streets believe that the I.M.F.'s way of solving problems is wrong," said Tongchat Hongladaromp, newly appointed chief executive of the Thai Petrochemical Industry Company, the nation's largest corporate bankruptcy. "We've got to find a solution that works for Thailand."
In its hunger for change, Thailand ousted its pro-Western prime minister in January, replacing him with a populist billionaire, Thaksin Shinawatra. Mr. Thaksin has charted a sharply different course, emphasizing growth at home over exports, funneling billions of dollars to banks and farmers and dismissing those, like the governor of the Thai central bank, with whom he disagrees.
This go-it-alone strategy is fraught with risks, not the least of which is a threat to the prime minister's hold on office because of a corruption investigation.
Along with the abandonment of I.M.F.-style prescriptions has come a surge in economic nationalism. Thailand is drafting policies to help local products compete with imports. It has raised the fees for foreigners' work permits. And state agencies have been prohibited from hiring non-Thais as consultants.
This tendency toward isolationism stops short of policies in Malaysia, where the leader, Mahathir Mohamad, inveighs against neocolonial financiers. Thailand has not imposed controls on its capital markets, as Malaysia did in 1998. And it remains a popular destination for foreign direct investment and tourism, though new investment has fluctuated in recent months because of confusion over Thai policies.
While Mr. Thaksin is unnerving some foreign investors, he has won broad domestic support and respectful notices from a few analysts, who are cheered that Thailand is trying something different.
"He's right to say that Thailand shouldn't rely on foreigners," said Christopher Wood, a regional strategist at ABN Amro in Hong Kong. "It's just plain common sense that Asia shouldn't put its bets on exports."
The I.M.F. itself has taken more of a hands-off role in the last year, since its loan program to Thailand ended. While the lending agency is drafting a report on Mr. Thaksin's policies, its officials are not eager to revive the debate over how best to repair the economy.
"There isn't a particular prescription the fund has, which would or wouldn't work," said Reza Moghadam, the I.M.F. mission chief for Thailand. "The question is, what are the policies which will deliver sustainable growth?"
In many ways, Thailand's next move depends on what happens to its leader. The National Countercorruption Commission ruled in December that Mr. Thaksin, who amassed a fortune from his telecommunications conglomerate, concealed some of his assets when he was deputy prime minister in 1997.
A constitutional court is considering whether to uphold the ruling. If it does, Mr. Thaksin could be banned from politics for as long as five years. While his coalition would retain a majority in Parliament and he could eventually return, it is doubtful a caretaker prime minister could carry out his policies as effectively.
Even if Mr. Thaksin stays in power, he will have to deliver on a campaign that promised something to almost everyone. The government pledged $23,000 to each of Thailand's 70,000 villages for small-scale loans.
It is also setting up a national asset management company, which will take over many of the bad loans from banks in an overdue effort to clean up the financial system. Previous attempts to do this failed because toothless bankruptcy laws emboldened debtors to be recalcitrant.
Analysts worry that unless these programs are run with discipline, they could easily devolve into corrupt bailouts. "I don't see Thaksin cracking the heads of his friends and supporters to do what is right instead of what is popular," said Jeff Earhart, research manager at DBS Thai Danu Securities here.
Some analysts also worry that if the verbiage of economic nationalism is pushed too far, it could mutate into xenophobia. Thailand has tended to be less suspicious of foreigners than other Asian countries because -- as any schoolchild here will tell you -- it was never colonized.
But many people here, from tuk-tuk drivers to tycoons, think that Westerners took advantage of Thailand's desperation after the financial and economic crisis to scoop up assets on the cheap. In the election campaign several months ago, this suspicion was used to great effect by Mr. Thaksin's party, known as Thai Rak Thai, or Thais Love Thais.
"Fear is a great motivator," said Amaret Sila-On, the chairman of the Stock Exchange of Thailand. "There have been genuine attempts by politicians to use nationalism as a tool to get what they want."
The financier George Soros canceled a speech in Bangkok in February when protesters, including some respected local businesspeople, threatened to pelt him with rotten eggs and fruit. They blame Mr. Soros for the collapse of the Thai baht in July 1997 because he speculated in the currency.
"As a Thai, it is my duty to protect the prestige of my country," said Amarin Khoman, a shipping executive who organized the campaign. "I could not let him come and spit in our faces again."
Fear of foreigners has been a recurring theme in Thailand's efforts to overhaul its debt-ridden banks and companies.
Mr. Amaret used to run the Financial Restructuring Authority, a state agency set up to deal with Thailand's 58 finance companies. Like the savings and loan institutions in the United States that failed in the 1980's, these companies used looser lending standards than the banks did and were the first to crumble.
Mr. Amaret closed all but two, and auctioned their assets to the highest bidder. He drew harsh criticism for selling half the assets to foreigners. The furor discouraged the prime minister then, Chuan Leekpai, from applying a similar remedy for the banks.
"If he had shown the courage to sell those assets to the highest bidder," Mr. Amaret said, "we would have been out of the woods by now."
A few banks, like DBS Thai Danu, wiped out their debt problems by selling their portfolios of bad loans at deep discounts. Most others simply shuffled the loans into asset management companies. Goldman, Sachs estimates that 44 percent of the total loans made by Thai banks are unlikely to be repaid. That compares with 37 percent in South Korea and 16 percent in Taiwan.
Next month, Thailand's government-sponsored asset management company is expected to begin taking over the bad loans. Once this flotsam is removed from banks' balance sheets, Mr. Thaksin says, they will resume lending.
Analysts are guardedly optimistic about the bailout's prospects, noting that the new company has been granted extraordinary powers to restructure loans, foreclose on assets and liquidate companies. But bankers warn it is not a cure-all.
"What this country needs is legal reform," said James Stent, senior executive vice president of the Bank of Asia, Thailand's 11th-largest bank. "If cases could work themselves through the courts smoothly, the banks could rid themselves of the loan problem in two years."
No case better illustrates the perils of overhauling a debt-laden company than Thai Petrochemical Industry. Established in 1978, the company expanded rapidly in the 1990's by borrowing heavily in unhedged foreign currency. When the baht collapsed, the company tumbled into insolvency.
What followed was a nearly four-year battle -- not yet ended -- as Thai Petrochemical's 140 creditors tried to recoup about $3.7 billion in loans. In December, Thailand's bankruptcy court approved a plan to restructure the company and install outside managers to run it on behalf of the banks.
But its founder, Prachai Leophairatana, has fought the plan every step of the way. One of his strategies has been to portray the creditor-appointed managers -- an Australian workout firm, Ferrier Hodgson -- as predatory foreigners.
"It took 20 years to assemble this company," Mr. Prachai said in an interview. "Now they are selling off the arms and legs. When it's all over, we'll wind up in Shell's back pocket. You'll see."
Mr. Prachai offered scanty evidence to back up that assertion. But among the company's rank and file, his assertions of foreign exploitation have resonated. Though he was ousted as chief executive by the creditor-appointed managers in December, Mr. Prachai still reports for work each day at company headquarters here, where he commands the loyalty of at least some of his former employees.
"If I wanted to play a dirty trick, they couldn't run a single factory, let alone all the factories in the company," he said.
Such warnings no longer surprise the managers from Ferrier Hodgson. They employ bodyguards after having been roughed up by angry employees while walking into meetings of creditors, accused of embezzling $400,000 and detained by the police on charges of violating their work permits.
Yet Ferrier Hodgson may have defused Mr. Prachai's contentions about foreign exploitation by recently appointing Mr. Tongchat, a Thai citizen, as president of Thai Petrochemical. He replaced Anthony J. Norman, a New Zealander who had become a target for anti-foreign vitriol.
Mr. Norman said he had planned to recruit a Thai even before Mr. Prachai made it an issue. But he acknowledged it would help in the public relations battle. "The company is 60 percent owned by Thais and is being managed by a Thai national," he said. "What kind of foreign influence is that?"
And Mr. Tongchat said the fears stirred up by Mr. Prachai were unfounded and at odds with Thailand's culture.
"Our tradition is to welcome foreigners," he said. "With time and good explanation, I think we can make things clear to our people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers load trays with gold necklaces and jewelry last week at a temple in Nonthaburi, west of Bangkok, as part of a national effort to have Thai residents donate some of their wealth to help prop up the struggling economy. (Reuters); Prachai Leophairatana, right, fought a restructuring of Thai Petrochemical by labeling the new managers as predatory foreigners. In response, Tongchat Hongladaromp, below, a Thai, was named company president. (Top, Associated Press; above, Yvan Cohen for The New York Times)(pg. C1); In January, Thailand replaced its pro-Western prime minister with Thaksin Shinawatra, a populist billionaire who has charted a sharply different course, emphasizing growth at home over exports. (Reuters)(pg. C5) Chart: "Still Struggling"Nearly four years after the devaluation of the Thai baht set off a financial crisis in Asia, Thailand's economy has not regained its luster. Charts track exchange rate*, foreign direct investment and gross domestic product+ since 1997. BAD LOANS AS A PERCENTAGE OF TOTALThailand -- 44%South Korea -- 37%Taiwan -- 16% (Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; ABN Amro; Warburg Dillon Read; Goldman, Sachs) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); TYPHOONS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TRENDS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (60%); PETROCHEMICAL MFG (51%); PETROCHEMICALS (51%); CORRUPTION (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; AGRICULTURE; FARMERS 

COMPANY: PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRIES CO KSC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325311 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZER MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2873 NITROGENOUS FERTILIZERS (55%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; THAKSIN SHINAWATRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%) THAILAND (99%); ASIA (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); JAPAN (92%); TAIWAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%) THAILAND; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



652 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue Chips Languish as Technology Shares Lift Nasdaq

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks sagged but technology shares made modest gains in listless trading yesterday as investors awaited this week's Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates.
 Many investors also sat on the sidelines to wait out the storm of companies saying slowing United States economic growth will crimp their profits, analysts said. Technology stocks found buyers, however, amid hopes the Fed's widely expected interest rate cut will help the battered sector. 
 "The closer we get to completing the earnings preannouncement period the more likely it is that there will be a base in some of these technology stocks for at least another quarter," said Rick Meckler, a senior managing director at Liberty Asset Management, which oversees $1 billion. 
Some investors are pinning their hopes on further interest rate reductions by the Fed, which meets on today and tomorrow, hoping that its aggressive monetary easing can engineer a comeback for the economy.
"There hasn't been too much good news to prop up this market," said Guy Truicko, a portfolio manager at Unity Management, which oversees more than $1 billion. "Yes, rates are coming down, but the economy has not turned yet as far as we can tell."
The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.03 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 2,050.87. Cisco Systems, the maker of equipment that powers the Internet, helped lift the tech-packed index with a 99-cent gain, to $18.51.
The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 100.37 points, nearly 1 percent, to 10,504.22. Home Depot, the home-improvement retailer, was a drag on the blue-chip index, as its shares were hurt by a bearish article in the financial weekly Barron's. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.75 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,218.60.
Trading was subdued on the Nasdaq, with 1.5 billion shares changing hands -- well below the average 2.1 billion in May. The New York Stock Exchange volume was average with 1.0 billion shares traded.
Home Depot fell $1.71, to $49, and was the Dow's biggest percentage loser after Barron's said the stock of the company was overvalued.
Coca-Cola, however, offered the Dow support after Goldman, Sachs added the company to its recommended list, saying "sentiment has become decidedly too negative toward the stock." Coke rose 74 cents, to $43.59.
Honeywell International fell $1, to $35.60, while its fellow Dow component General Electric declined $1.61, to $50.25. A European Union advisory committee supported commission experts yesterday and, on a split vote, opposed G.E.'s purchase of Honeywell.
International Business Machines slipped 22 cents, to $112.65. I.B.M. said it built the world's fastest silicon transistor, a breakthrough that it said would yield microchips within two years that run five times the speed of current models.
Biotechnology stocks declined as Biogen took a hit from downgrades by Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch. Lehman cited uncertainties related to the patent on a new psoriasis medicine. Merrill said two of the leading drugs made by Biogen would not provide as much lift to earnings as hoped.
Biogen sank $5.46, to $54.41, and the Nasdaq biotechnology index fell 2.8 percent.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Drop
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices fell as some investors speculated that the Federal Reserve would stop lowering interest rates after a decrease this week.
Bear, Stearns doubled its forecast for the possible Fed rate reduction to half a percentage point. All told, 11 of the 25 primary dealers, companies that trade with the Fed, say a rate cut that big is likely. Yet 14 also say it would be the last of the central bank's recent attempts to spur the economy.
The 10-year Treasury note fell 1/32, to a price of 99 2/32. The note's yield was unchanged at 5.12 percent.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 5/32, to 96 30/32. The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.59 percent from 5.58 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 3-month and 6-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.14798.311High Rate3.3753.340Investment Rate3.4513.445Low Rate3.34%3.28%Median Rate3.37%3.32%Total applied $35for,919,836$31,412,211$20Accepted,156,289$16,895,431$1Noncompetitive,245,139$928,146

Both issues are dated June 28, 2001. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 27, 2001, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 27, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills since Feb.(Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HOME CENTERS (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); LIBERTY ASSET MANAGEMENT CO INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (51%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); KO (NYSE) (51%); HON (NYSE) (51%); HON (LSE) (51%); IBMC (BRU) (50%); IBM (NYSE) (50%); IBM (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (51%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



653 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Stealth Bomber, Once Scorned, Gains Fresh Backing 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WHITEMAN AIR FORCE BASE, Mo. 

 BODY:
A pair of Air Force pilots recently locked themselves inside a closet-size metal box here for 50 hours, subsisting on cold pizza and instant noodles, amusing themselves with crossword puzzles and paperback books, and taking occasional catnaps on a fold-up chaise longue from Wal-Mart.
 The box was a B-2 bomber simulator, and the point of the exercise was to demonstrate that the pilots could overcome the tedium, confinement and sleep deprivation entailed in attacking distant targets -- in Asia, say -- from Missouri, home of the nation's B-2 fleet. But to B-2 devotees, a broader proposition was being tested: that the bat-winged stealth plane, once derided for its high price and questionable durability, could play a lead role in President Bush's new Pacific-oriented military strategy. 
 The B-2, the world's most expensive aircraft, is trying to make a comeback. Four years after the Northrop Grumman Corporation stopped producing the planes because Congress had balked at their $2.2-billion-apiece price, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld is considering buying 40 more of them, this time for $735 million each. 
B-2 fans say it is about time. Mr. Rumsfeld is developing a military strategy that seeks to reduce American dependence on overseas bases in favor of stealthy, precision-guided, long-range weaponry. To B-2 advocates, that is a recipe for their plane, which, with the help of airborne fuel tankers, flew nonstop raids from Missouri to Serbia during the 1999 air war there, dropping radar-guided bombs with apparently great accuracy.
"People focus too much on the cost of the plane rather than its effectiveness," said Representative Norm Dicks, a Washington Democrat who is helping to lead a bipartisan charge for the B-2 in Congress. "You don't need nuclear weapons when you have this kind of capability."
Mr. Rumsfeld, who along with Dick Cheney endorsed the plane in a 1995 letter to President Bill Clinton, has remained silent about his intentions.
But the B-2's critics say it remains a luxury the Pentagon cannot afford, particularly as the services cry poverty when it comes to buying basic things like bullets, housing and spare parts. As the technology develops, less expensive weapons, among them long-range cruise missiles and unmanned aircraft, will do the job just as well, they say.
"If you were bombing the way we did in Vietnam, maybe it would make sense to buy them," said Michael O'Hanlon, a military analyst with the Brookings Institution. "But that doesn't seem to be where things are going. Given that, there are more economical ways to go."
Moreover, those critics say, the plane is not all that stealthy. During the air war over Yugoslavia, the B-2 conducted raids only at night, because its huge black V-shaped body is readily visible by day. Some of those planes were also accompanied by radar-jamming aircraft. 
Even senior Air Force officers argue for buying the F-22 Raptor fighter jet instead of more B-2's. Their reasoning is that the Air Force needs faster, stealthier fighters to protect its relatively slow and insufficiently stealthy bombers, particularly since potentially hostile nations are developing more powerful radar and better air defenses.
And because radar-jammers, fighters and fuel tankers cannot fly all the way from the United States, buying B-2's would not eliminate the need for overseas bases.
"The B-2's are stealthy," one Air Force general said, "but they still need help." 
The B-2 was conceived in the early 1980's as one leg of the nation's strategic force, capable of sweeping undetected into Soviet airspace to drop nuclear bombs. In the Reagan administration, plans were drawn up to build 132 of the planes at Northrop plants in Palmdale and Pico Rivera, Calif.
The program was plagued, however, by cost overruns and production delays, at one point failing a radar-detection test. And with the collapse of the Soviet Union, Congress began slashing the B-2 budget during the 1990's, stopping production after 21 aircraft had been built for $44 billion. (That price included research and development costs that would not be part of any new production run, Northrop points out.) 
After the first B-2's were delivered here to Whiteman Air Force Base in 1993, new problems emerged. In 1997, the General Accounting Office, Congress's investigative and auditing arm, reported that the aircraft's radar-absorbing skin could be damaged by moisture and extreme weather conditions. The plane, the report concluded, could not be deployed overseas without special climate-controlled shelters.
And to maintain stealth, every nick or dent on the plane's specially designed skin must be repaired with particular kinds of tape and epoxy that require as long as 80 hours to cure. Stealth also requires that each time crews open panels to reach internal parts, technicians spend hours sealing the minuscule gaps around the panels.
As a result, Pentagon testers found, the B-2's were often grounded, reducing the number of sorties they could fly and sharply increasing maintenance costs, nearly $140 million last year. (The B-2 wing at Whiteman, the 509th, has more than 1,000 maintenance workers for the 20 planes.) Northrop is trying to redesign the aircraft to reduce the time required to replace panels.
"Every aircraft has some challenge," said Col. Anthony F. Przybyslawski, commander of the 509th Wing. "This one's challenge is keeping it pristine."
The B-2 managed to quiet some of its critics on its first combat mission, in 1999, when six of the planes took part in strikes over Kosovo and Serbia, flying nearly 50 missions, all from Whiteman. Though that number accounted for just 1 percent of NATO's sorties, the B-2's dropped 11 percent of the bombs, the Clinton administration reported.
By most accounts, the B-2 performed well. Using Global Positioning Systems, the planes accurately hit targets with precision-guided bombs even on cloudy days that stymied other allied aircraft. On a visit to Whiteman in 1999, President Clinton called the B-2 a "truly remarkable aircraft."
The goal of the 509th Wing now is to prove that with the prospect of fewer overseas bases, the B-2 can fulfill the kind of missions over the Pacific that it performed over Kosovo. And that is why pilots like Capt. Andy Gebara have been spending 50 hours at a stretch here inside the simulator that closely replicates the B-2's cramped cockpit.
"It's a long time to be stuck in a small container," Captain Gebara said. "But given the constraints we have with the shrinkage of bases, we kind of have to do this. We can't go anywhere we want in the world anymore."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday with an article about renewed interest in the B-2 bomber misidentified the pilot shown at Whiteman Air Force Base, Mo. He is Maj. Scott Vilter, not Maj. Brian Zembraski. The caption also misidentified where the picture was taken. It was in the cockpit of an actual B-2, not a simulator.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maj. Brian Zembraski in the B-2 simulator where pilots at Whiteman Air Force Base, Mo., have spent 50 hours at a time to show that they can overcome confinement and fatigue to fly nonstop to overseas targets. (Roy Inman for The New York Times); (Photograph by Department of Defense) Chart: "AT A GLANCE: MORE B-2 BOMBERS?"The Pentagon is giving the B-2 stealth bomber a second look, though concerns remain over its high cost, which dwarfs that of the other long-range bombers even when the costs of research and development are excluded. Some other points of comparison: B-2 SPIRITWHEN DEPLOYED: Dec. 1993NUMBER ACTIVE: 20APPROX. RANGE*: 7,255 milesMAX. SPEED: Mach 0.85 B-1B LANCERWHEN DEPLOYED: June 1985NUMBER ACTIVE: 93APPROX. RANGE*: 6,449 milesMAX. SPEED: Mach 1.25 B-52 STRATO-FORTRESSWHEN DEPLOYED: Feb. 1955NUMBER ACTIVE: 94APPROX. RANGE*: 10,133 miles+MAX. SPEED: Mach 0.90 *At high altitude, without refueling. Ranges can vary depending on the amount of fuel and weapons being carried.+Range for the B-52H, the most recent variant. The next most recent, the B-52G, has a range of about 7,140 miles.(Sources: Air Force when deployed, number active ; Periscope Military Database range, speed ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; STEALTH AIRCRAFT 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DEFENSE DEPARTMENT; NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP 

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (69%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (69%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (69%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (69%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (69%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); NORMAN D DICKS (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); DICK CHENEY (53%) DAO, JAMES; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%); ASIA (79%); VIET NAM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



654 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Belgrade Begins Process of Sending Milosevic to The Hague 

BYLINE:  By CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 25 

 BODY:
The Yugoslav government took the first legal steps today to hand over the former president, Slobodan Milosevic, to the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague, raising expectations that he might be transferred this week before an international conference that could bring aid to Serbia.
 The Justice Ministry forwarded a request from the tribunal for Mr. Milosevic's transfer to a Belgrade district court today, in keeping with a decree on cooperation with the tribunal adopted on Saturday, the official Tanjug news agency reported. The request established "concrete" proof, the agency said, of the government's willingness to hand over indicted war crimes suspects. 
 The government ignored a legal challenge by Mr. Milosevic's lawyers calling the decree unconstitutional and asking that it be suspended.
The Constitutional Court convened today but did not announce any ruling. Justice Minister Momcilo Grubac, who drafted the decree, appeared unperturbed by the challenge and said he did not expect the court to find the decree unconstitutional.
Mr. Milosevic, who has been in detention in Belgrade's city jail since April 1 under investigation for corruption, is wanted in connection with crimes against humanity in Kosovo during the war in 1999. Four of his senior officials were indicted with him, but they remain at large, while Mr. Milosevic's transfer appears increasingly certain. The district court has to act on the request by the Justice Ministry within three days.
The international conference of donors will convene in Brussels on Friday. Government ministers are hoping to raise more than $1 billion at the conference, money badly needed to rescue Yugoslavia's crippled economy. The United States has linked its participation to Yugoslavia's cooperation with The Hague, and officials have said they want to see concrete steps in addition to the decree, namely arrests and transfer of indicted war crimes suspects. 
Today, European Union officials said they would go ahead with the conference, and urged the United States to take part. American officials have yet to decide whether they will do so. 
In Belgrade it is becoming increasingly clear that Mr. Milosevic's days in Serbia are numbered. 
President Vojislav Kostunica told a delegation from Mr. Milosevic's Socialist Party that his extradition was the "lesser of two evils," the Belgrade radio station B92 reported. A party delegation met with Mr. Kostunica to protest the transfer, saying it represented national surrender, but he told them it would be a "lesser evil than what would happen to the country if we did not do it." 
The deputy prime minister, Miroljub Labus, said Saturday that the government intended to extradite all 16 suspects indicted by the tribunal who are thought to be in Yugoslavia. 
The Serbian interior minister, Dusan Mihajlovic, backed that promise with a challenge. "Do you doubt Mr. Labus will keep his word?" he asked.
And even as they tried to fight off the decree, Mr. Milosevic's lawyers showed signs of exasperation and resignation. "We do not think the transfer will happen," Toma Fila, Mr. Milosevic's chief lawyer, said at a news conference. "We are going to do everything we can to fight it."
But a lawyer in his office later admitted that he expected Mr. Milosevic to be in The Hague by Friday. 
There remains some uncertainty about the appeal process under the new decree. Mr. Milosevic may be allowed to appeal a court order for his transfer, in which case he may have two or three weeks' reprieve. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (92%); INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN; GALL, CARLOTTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (54%) SERBIA (95%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); KOSOVO (79%); EUROPE (79%); BELGIUM (69%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%) SERBIA

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



655 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Seattle Failure Weighs On Future of Trade Talks
While momentum is gathering behind the idea of a new round of global trade talks, fundamental differences between rich and poor nations and the United States and its trading partners over what should be on the agenda are clouding talks before they can begin.
 The divisions follow a pattern that was largely evident before the failed meeting in Seattle in 1999. Mindful of the stakes, trade officials traveled to Geneva to try to advance the process. World Business, Section W. 

Women Forced to Delay Retirement
Hundreds of thousands of women in their 60's, part of the surge of divorces that started a generation ago, are finding they must stay in the work force because they lack the money to retire. Wages in effect are their pensions. A1.

A Response to Woody Allen's Suit
Jean Doumanian, left, who was Woody Allen's closest friend for 30 years and produced some of his films, responded to a lawsuit he filed against her. She accused Mr. Allen of being "self-indulgent" and "fiscally irresponsible" in many of his films. Mr. Allen's suit contends that he had been cheated out of an unspecified amount of profits from eight movies. C8.

Justices Rule in Favor of Freelancers
The Supreme Court ruled that a group of newspaper and magazine publishers infringed the copyrights owned by freelance contributors when the publishers made the writers' work available through electronic databases without their permission. A1.

Self-Cleaning Glass to Be Sold in U.S.
Pilkington of Britain plans to outline its American sales plans for a window glass that cleans itself. PPG Industries in Pittsburgh is also working on the technology. C5.

Blue Chips Fall but Nasdaq Climbs
Blue-chip stocks sagged but technology shares posted modest gains. The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 100.37 points, or nearly 1 percent, to 10,504.22. The Nasdaq composite index rose 16.03 points, or 0.8 percent, to 2,050.87. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 6.75 points, or 0.6 percent, to 1,218.60. C9.

Home Resales Rose 2.9% in May
Sales of previously owned homes rose 2.9 percent in May to the third-highest level as falling mortgage rates kept housing resistant to the economy's slowdown. Resales increased to an annual pace of 5.37 million houses from 5.22 million in April, the National Association of Realtors said. If the current rate holds, 5.25 million homes will sell this year. C7.

Canadian Company to Buy Miner
Barrick Gold is buying Homestake Mining in a $2.3 billion deal. World Business, Section W.

California in Talks on Power Dispute
California and the companies that sell it electricity sat at the same table to try to resolve a feud over the state's energy bills. C7.

U.S. Considers Buying B-2 Bombers
The Pentagon is considering buying 40 more B-2 bombers, made by Northrop Grumman, for $735 million each. A16.

BMW Commissions Films for Web
BMW has commissioned Web minidramas from well-known directors, who bring their particular feelings about cars to the short films. Elvis Mitchell: Critic's Notebook. E1.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,504.22 down 100.37Nasdaq composite -- 2,050.87 up 16.0310-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.12% Unch.The euro -- $0.8595 up 0.0033The dollar -- 123.80 yen down 0.53 Graphs: "TODAY" shows durable goods orders and new-home sales since Nov. Graph tracks exisiting-home sales since Dec.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); EXISTING HOME SALES (85%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); GLASS MFG (75%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (71%); WRITERS (70%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (65%); SALES PLAN (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%); GOLD MINING (62%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PPG INDUSTRIES INC (53%)

TICKER: PPG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327212 OTHER PRESSED & BLOWN GLASS & GLASSWARE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3211 FLAT GLASS (53%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (94%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



656 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Drops Case Over AIDS Drugs in Brazil 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 25 

 BODY:
The United States unexpectedly withdrew a patent complaint against Brazil in the World Trade Organization today and agreed to settle out of court a dispute widely seen as symbolic of the debate over who may manufacture and sell drugs to treat AIDS in poor countries.
 Coming on the first day of a United Nations General Assembly debate on the AIDS crisis, the decision was welcomed by campaigners for cheaper medications for developing nations, where AIDS is taking a devastating toll. Brazil, which had been moving to the forefront of an international challenge to large Western pharmaceutical companies and their high-priced anti-retroviral medicines, has sharply cut its mortality rate from AIDS in recent years with an aggressive campaign to make drugs available cheaply and effectively, experts say. 
 "Brazil has the most successful AIDS treatment program in the developing world, and this decision shows that the U.S. is no longer threatening its existence," said Seth Amgott, spokesman for Oxfam, the British charity. 
Paul Davis, of Act Up Philadelphia, a protest group concerned with AIDS issues, said the American move will serve as an important precedent for other nations desperate for ways to make treatment more affordable to their populations against the strong patent protections and pricing policies of companies in rich nations. "It will also remove barriers to access in many poor countries by illustrating that a country can withstand this kind of pressure," he said.
Specialists from around the world gathered here for the three-day summit-level meeting on AIDS -- an event that has thrown activists, medical experts and government officials into intense debate on priorities for fighting the epidemic. Those gathered said the decision today by the United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, added to the sense that pharmaceutical companies can no longer expect governments to protect them against a rising tide of concern about the denial of drugs to poor victims of AIDS.
In recent months, several companies have lowered prices on medications that slow the course of the virus that causes AIDS and at least one has decided to give away a medication needed to treat opportunistic fungal infections that often accompany the disease.
"The United States has been supportive of Brazil's bold and effective program to combat the H.I.V.-AIDS crisis," Mr. Zoellick said in a statement today in Washington. "With this positive step, we will be able to harness our common energy toward our shared goal of combating the spread of this dangerous virus."
Under the agreement, Brazil and the United States will set up a joint panel to deal with the drug issue and other patent cases.
Under a 1996 Brazilian patent law, foreign companies lose patent protection if they don't either make the drug in Brazil or license a local company to make it within three years of securing a patent. Brazil already permitted government-run laboratories to copy any foreign drugs with patents that predate the 1996 law.
American officials, who had threatened Brazil with trade sanctions, said two months ago that this case was important to uphold the general principle of protecting intellectual property rights and that Brazil was using a provision in its law to pressure patent owners to make products there. Brazil's AIDS chief, Dr. Paulo Roberto Teixeira, responded on May 2, saying that his country was being punished for challenging American companies in ways that other nations did not.
Today, Brazil agreed to give the United States 10 days' notice of any plan to apply the provision demanding local manufacture and allowing forfeiture of patent rights. In return, the United States dropped its insistence on a formal review of Brazil's policy at the W.T.O. but reserved the right to revive its complaint if the consultation process fails. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (89%); PATENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); EPIDEMICS (77%); DRUG PRICES (77%); ANTIVIRALS (77%); AIDS POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); VIRUSES (75%); LITIGATION (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); SUITS AND LITIGATION; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); UNITED NATIONS (58%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



657 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Serfs on the Web 

BYLINE:  By Walt Crowley; Walt Crowley writes frequently on Pacific Northwest history and is the author of the National Trust for Historic Preservation's guide to Seattle.

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
But how do you make any money?" This is the automatic response of virtually everyone upon learning that I run a nonprofit Web site -- a dot-org -- devoted to local history.
 The question is usually posed in quizzical but sympathetic tones, as if addressed to someone who poses a potential danger to himself, if not others. "We make money the old-fashioned way," I reply. "We beg for it." This satisfies no one, but it's the truth. 
 Things have not improved since the dot-com meltdown. People assume anyone left on the Internet has gone from riches to rags and been reduced to selling off vintage pinball machines to pay the mortgage. But those of us in the domain of the dot-orgs, the gentle realm of "venture socialists" who measure success in community service and usefulness, haven't experienced that change of fortune.
Dot-orgdom was the first civilian settlement in cyberspace after its invention by the military-industrial-academic complex. The dot-coms arrived later, building a tangled Web of virtual strip malls. Now their skydiving fortunes threaten to take the Web, or at least its credibility, with them. Fortunately, there is a safety net (sorry): the dot-orgs, dot-govs, and dot-edus that happily provide free data without having to post losses on the Nasdaq.
But just as many venture capitalists have discovered that the same basic economic rules apply in cyberspace as in the real world, so it is with public service. I have learned this the hard way in developing HistoryLink.org, a community history site for the Pacific Northwest written for the Internet, offering the electronic equivalent of 12,000 printed pages.
This project is not an inexpensive undertaking, when you take the radical step of paying historians, writers, designers and editors a living wage instead of stock options. At first, I naively assumed that this resource would appeal to local sponsors motivated by community pride. 
I soon discovered that globalization had severed ties many corporations had to their local communities. Most traditional foundations also proved skeptical, if not openly suspicious, of the Internet, while younger cyber-riche philanthropists were already bored with it.
The project would have died early but for local governments and a few progressive donors who recognized its value in promoting history education and citizen debate. Still, fund-raising remains a daily struggle, and in this, a dot-org is no different from any other nonprofit group. Practicing venture socialism may not make you rich, but it's more honest than a lot of defunct dot-com business plans. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HISTORY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LIVING WAGE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (69%); RETAILERS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); WRITERS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); FOUNDATIONS (66%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); STOCK OPTIONS (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS 

PERSON: CROWLEY, WALT 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST USA (79%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



658 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: Is a Patients' Rights Bill the Cure? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As Marcia Angell (Op-Ed, June 23) implies, the country's health insurance system won't be universal unless it is compulsory, like Social Security and Medicare. As Dr. 
Angell says, the system will be vulnerable to dropouts if costs rise. 
 But the solution need not entail the single-payer system that she advocates. 
 As an alternative to the Clintons' cumbersome employer-based plan, Prof. Michael Graetz and I proposed offering Medicare-type coverage to every family or individual at the government's average cost, while encouraging health maintenance organizations and other private insurers to compete by offering equivalent packages. Government subsidies would be given to every insured for whom the cost of the standard package exceeded, say, 10 percent of income.

JAMES TOBIN
New Haven, June 23, 2001

The writer, professor emeritus at Yale, won the 1981 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (88%); NOBEL PRIZES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); INSURANCE (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (53%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (51%) CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



659 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
Summer Rite Returns To Borough of Churches

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
There was a baseball game in Brooklyn last night.
 It took 44 years to say this, but the professional game returned to the holy and haunted borough that was plundered after the 1957 season. 
 The Brooklyn Cyclones, named for a roller coaster just to the east, opened with a 3-2 victory in 10 innings last night at their new $39 million publicly subsidized playpen alongside the sea in Coney Island, only a few miles from Flatbush, where the Dodgers used to play at a ballpark named Ebbets Field. 
Their opponents were the Mahoning Valley Scrappers of Ohio in the Class A New York-Penn League -- not exactly the hated Giants of the equally vanished Polo Grounds, but you have to start somewhere. 
The Cyclones are in the enviable position of having it both ways. Their owner, Fred Wilpon, who also owns half of the Mets, and his son, Jeffrey, the chief operating officer of the Cyclones, issue a caveat that their team is not the Brooklyn Dodgers of Jackie Robinson -- and Oisk and Newk and Campy and Gil and Pee Wee and Duke and the Reading Rifle.
Rather, these are a bunch of prospects trying to work their way up the very steep hill of baseball, but the team, the concept of a team in Brooklyn, taps into the great sadness of the borough.
"This is giving something back to this borough that was taken from them," said Fred Wilpon, who once lived at 23rd Avenue and 62nd Street in Bensonhurst. 
Earlier in the day he talked by telephone to his high school teammate Sandy Koufax, who later pitched for the Dodgers, which is like saying Picasso painted a bit. 
"I said, 'Sandy, did we ever go on the Parachute Jump?' " Wilpon said, nodding at the gaudily painted but inactive tower looming behind the right-field stands. 
They decided they had never had the courage or the time to go up in the Parachute Jump, being too involved in their dream of pitching for the Dodgers. Wilpon also described how he conned the school bus driver to make a detour to Nathan's at 7:30 a.m.
"I'd have the hot dog, garlic and all," Wilpon recalled, almost with wonder at the strength of his stomach, way back then.
A lot of those memories have become heightened with the passing of the years. All spiritual Brooklynites know, in our blood and our bones, that the Dodgers were taken away after 1957 by the O'Malleys, whose only claim to the franchise was that technically they owned it. 
(In a twist of fate, that team is currently based in Los Angeles, is owned by an Australian-born guy named Rupert, and does not make the playoffs. As they say in parts of Brooklyn, "My heart bleeds borscht.")
The Cyclones are all about justice. As the New Jersey poet Bruce Springsteen put it in his ode to another seaside town called Atlantic City: "Everything dies, baby, that's a fact/But maybe everything that dies someday comes back."
So now Brooklyn baseball comes back. Brooklyn is known as the Borough of Churches. You can see that on approach to the airports at La Guardia or Kennedy -- the spires of Bedford-Stuyvesant and Park Slope and Sunset Park and Bay Ridge. 
Immigrants from Jamaica and Odessa -- and Indiana, in the case of that departed settler Gil Hodges -- came to Brooklyn for a different life. 
Brooklyn has the claim of a holy place, unlike the other boroughs. It is to New York City what Cholula is to Mexico, the home of the spirit, a place where frightful things happened, and were covered up, or built upon. Cortez massacred the Cholultecas at Cholula; the 365 temples, one for every day in the year, were torn down or covered. The O'Malleys took away a team from Brooklyn; nobody forgot. 
Baseball remains the sacred rite in Brooklyn. They also play soccer and cricket and basketball in the borough now, but they never forget that a team called the Dodgers won six pennants in the first postwar generation and then vanished, along with the Giants of Manhattan.
In popular folk tradition, Brooklyn thereupon died, but losing the Dodgers was only a convenient symbol for worse things -- neglect, poverty, white flight, corporate greed -- hardly unique to Brooklyn.
Somehow, life went on in dozens of neighborhoods, and now there is life pulsing at the edge of the ocean, near the fast-food stands and arcades of hardscrabble Coney Island. The new ballpark, KeySpan Park, has been built with $39 million worth of largesse from the city, which also unveiled a $71 million home for the Staten Island Yankees on Sunday. 
These parks were supposed to be warm-up exercises for Mayor Giuliani, who is still talking about doing much more expensive favors for the Yanks and Mets in the last months of his regime. 
"The weight of economic evidence, however, shows that taxpayers spend a lot of money and ultimately don't get much back," Adam M. Zaretsky, an economist in the Research Division of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, wrote in an article in the Regional Economist, a quarterly published by that bank.
"And when this paltry return is compared with other potential uses of the funds, the investment, almost always, seems unwise." 
He goes on to cite the social optimism about sport that often tips the balance toward such extravagances. It is easy to lament money not spent on schools and hospitals and mass transit -- until I see people packing this modernistic ballpark on a gorgeous summer evening, with the ocean glistening out past the well-kept boardwalk.
Old Dodgers named Ralph Branca and Joe Pignatano took part in the pregame ceremony, and a young Cyclone named Edgar Rodriguez became the first hero of the new generation with a two-out, two-run homer in the ninth to tie the game.
The Cyclones won in the 10th, and the exquisite sound system, which played tasteful New York tunes all evening, broke into Neil Diamond's "Brooklyn Roads," a song about nostalgia, a perfect way to honor the tribal memory of a team called the Brooklyn Dodgers that did not die.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fans like Jonathan Farina, 11, foreground, watched the first professional baseball game in Brooklyn since 1957. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); RELIGION (89%); ATHLETES (78%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (69%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (68%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); EXECUTIVES (53%) BASEBALL; MINOR LEAGUES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%) BROOKLYN DODGERS (DEFUNCT TEAM); BROOKLYN CYCLONES; MAHONING VALLEY SCRAPPERS 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) BROOKLYN (NYC)

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



660 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Seen the Ads? Now, Take the Test; 
Armed With a No. 2 Pencil, and Ready to Join the Police

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
A bumper sticker on a tollbooth on the Triborough Bridge promised work. It read: (212) RECRUIT. The New York Police Department was looking for a few of New York's finest.
 Why not? Could be a story. Could be a career. I called the number, and was told to go to the nearest precinct station house and fill out the exam application. I did. Within weeks, there was a packet in my mailbox that contained a form with the time and place of my exam, a practice test and a list of free preparatory classes. 
 The classes were at inconvenient times, and I did not attend them. I studied the practice test for 10 minutes on the day of the exam, which was last Saturday at 3:30 p.m. It seemed to be straightforward, multiple-choice, strictly SAT style. 
I took the subway to Murry Bergtraum High School for Business Careers, on Pearl Street in Lower Manhattan.
There were about 300 people standing in the downpour with No. 2 pencils and pocket calculators. The crowd was half-white, half-not, and there was a good mix of women. Fashions ranged from sandals to tight pants, nylon stockings worn on heads to dyed hair, gold chains, tattoos and pierced noses. Nobody wore a jacket or tie.
The department has had problems getting qualified people to take the test. It is a mix of apathy, a good economy and a low opinion of the force in the wake of the Abner Louima and Amadou Diallo episodes, police and criminal justice experts agree.
There were about 1,600 slots available in the last Police Academy class, police union officials said. But only about 1,100 people were willing and qualified to take them. The Police Department worked hard this year to get people to take the exam. It advertised extensively. It waived the $35 application fee. So 12,652 people signed up to take the test. Only 6,654 took it, however, said Thomas Antenen, a spokesman for the department. 
To qualify for the exam you had to be under 35 years old by March 7, at least 17 1/2 by May 15 and never convicted of a felony. 
Emilio Zapata, 23, said he had no criminal record whatsoever. He is the manager of a pharmacy in Brooklyn and said he had come to take the exam because he was looking for something better.
"You don't make enough in a drugstore," Mr. Zapata said. "I hear the police benefits are pretty good compared to what I got now."
And what benefits does a manager of a pharmacy get?
"None," he said.
The following are the benefits given to city police officers, according to the department: 
*$31,305 per year; $49,023 per year after five years of service. 
*Excellent opportunities for promotion. 
*A choice of paid medical and dental programs. 
*Twenty paid vacation days the first year. 
*Twenty-seven paid vacation days after five years of service. 
*Unlimited sick leave with full pay. 
*Optional retirement at one-half salary after 20 years of service.
*An annuity fund.
James Barnes said that growing up, he never even wanted to be close to a cop, that the opinion of them in his Staten Island neighborhood was not very high. Mr. Barnes has a child now and explained his reasons for taking the exam like this: "I got nothing to lose."
We were led into a dimly lighted auditorium that had a musty municipal smell to it. There was a sleepy-looking police officer sitting on a folding chair on the stage. The American flag was touching the ground. A group of Staten Island guys sat behind me joking about Abner Louima.
We were then led out of the auditorium and given a room and a seat assignment. The air-conditioning was high, and it was cold. The wet sneakers squeaked on the floor. I could not find a bathroom.
Room 431 had graffiti-scarred desks and no windows. There were two elderly proctors who were ostensibly there to pass out the exams and prevent people from cheating. The old man came around to give me my test, tripped over an umbrella and came tumbling toward me. I caught him, but impaled him with my pencil. The tip broke. I had a spare. (I had taken tests before.) He shook it off.
The first part of the test was a photograph of a crime scene. We were given 10 minutes to memorize it before it was taken away, and then we were quizzed on it. It was a subway scene with two uniformed police officers and a hooded person pointing a revolver.
Taking notes was strictly forbidden during that part of the test, the proctor said. I saw people scribbling notes on their desks. 
Carol Wachter, assistant commissioner for examinations with the Department of Citywide Administrative Services, which administers the test, later said, "As a candidate, if you saw someone cheating, you should have reported it to the room monitor."
I was being asked to violate the blue wall of silence before I had even joined the force.
The test consisted of 85 multiple-choice questions. We were given 2 hours 45 minutes to complete it. The first 10 questions pertained to the photograph. The 75 others had to do with reading comprehension and deductive reasoning. 
It was against the rules to take the test questions or any notes out of the classroom, the proctor said. The following are merely my recollections rather than certainties.
One typical question began with a seven-step list that a police officer must follow when responding to a domestic dispute call. A three-paragraph scenario followed, ending with the question, "What is the next step the officer should take?" You had to refer to the list to find your answer.
It was easy to see that those with more test-taking experience would do better than those without, since you could save valuable minutes by simply starting with the question and working backward, thus avoiding having to read all the text.
One of the more inane questions had to do with finding a matching footprint. There was a similar question about hubcaps asking you to match the pictures.
Eugene O'Donnell, a professor of law and police science at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and a former New York City police officer, said it was unclear what the test was supposed to measure.
"At best, it is a minimal screening tool in an atmosphere where there are not that many people interested in taking the test," Professor O'Donnell said.
After the written test, eligible applicants have to undergo medical, psychological and physical agility examinations and submit to a background and character investigation.
According to the Police Department, qualified applicants are then hired and sent to the Police Academy for seven months. By the date of hiring, an applicant must have 60 college credits with at least a 2.0 grade-point average, two years' active military experience or two years' experience as a meter maid or crossing guard. A valid New York driver's license without restrictions is also needed. 
I completed the test in an hour and ran to find a bathroom. Outside, the rain had moved on and people began to file out of the building. By the look of it, the first 50 people to complete the exam were white men with military-style haircuts.
"White dudes from the suburbs," said Mark Leaks, a 24-year-old black man who was waiting for his friend to finish the test. "But a good education doesn't mean you're a good cop, believe me." 
The test results will be posted in late July, the police said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: About 300 applicants lined up on Saturday at a high school in Lower Manhattan to take the New York City police exam. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); Our test-taker's re-creation of one question on the police exam: Which footprint most closely matches the first one? (Charlie LeDuff/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (64%); FELONIES (64%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (64%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (60%); HOLIDAY & VACATION LEAVE (60%) POLICE; TESTS AND TESTING 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



661 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Passaic Joins Suit to Bring Help for Preschool Programs 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: PASSAIC, N.J., June 25 

 BODY:
This city's superintendent of schools, Robert H. Holster, stood today under the blazing sun in a parking lot where 11 trailers are supposed to serve as temporary classrooms for 165 of the projected 2,083 toddlers eligible in September for full-day prekindergarten classes ordered by the New Jersey Supreme Court. But while the state's own timeline indicates that today was the date when the 11 trailers -- and 69 others elsewhere in Passaic -- were to be installed, they were nowhere to be seen.
 "June 25, which happens to be today, was installation of units," Mr. Holster said later, quoting the timeline. "Where are they?" 
 Standing on the site, Mr. Holster announced that Passaic had become the third individual district to join in the latest legal battle in the protracted Abbott v. Burke school financing case. The plaintiffs have asked the State Supreme Court to appoint a monitor to oversee implementation of the prekindergarten programs that the court ordered for the 30 poor urban districts involved in the Abbott case in 1998.
By asking the Supreme Court to appoint a monitor, three districts -- Elizabeth, Perth Amboy and now Passaic -- have joined with the Education Law Center in Newark in asking the court to enforce its second ruling on prekindergarten programs in 2000, which provided specifics like maximum class sizes of 15 students and certification for teachers. The State Economic Development Authority is supposed to arrange for temporary and permanent facilities for the programs, and handle tasks like arranging for building permits, laying foundations and contracting for trailers. 
"They're supposed to do everything," Mr. Holster said. But nothing has been done to install any of the 80 trailers prescribed for Passaic, where none of the site preparation work has been done, Mr. Holster said. And like Passaic, many of the so-called Abbott districts are concerned that they simply will not have facilities in place by September.
Spokesmen for the state attorney general's office and the Department of Education would not comment about Mr. Holster's criticisms. 
Today was also the state's deadline for responding to the districts' request for a monitor. In the 65-page response, the attorney general's office alluded to the construction delays and defended efforts in the face of such "daunting" facilities needs. It also criticized demands for prekindergarten programs by the Education Law Center, which represents students in the Abbott districts, as unsupported by the State Constitution's call for a "thorough and efficient" education for all students.
"This case presents to the court a record of the extraordinary efforts undertaken by the state to implement a preschool program of unprecedented scope," the response said. "The E.L.C.'s motion is not directly premised on a constitutional right; the 'thorough and efficient clause' does not speak to children below the age of 5."
But David G. Sciarra, executive director of the law center, said the Supreme Court already ruled in 1998 that preschool is, in fact, part of a "thorough and efficient" education. Mr. Sciarra said the court could issue a ruling based on the parties' filings, or schedule oral arguments.
"They're trying to reopen a settled issue," he said of the state's response. "They define progress as very slow, and then they try to argue that's good enough." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (93%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); MODULAR SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); LITIGATION (71%); BUILDING PERMITS (64%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (64%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (61%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; EDUCATION (PRE-SCHOOL) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY SUPREME COURT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) PASSAIC (NJ); PERTH AMBOY (NJ); ELIZABETH (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



662 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing Arena Bill Clears Panel 

BYLINE:  By Ronald Smothers (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The New Jersey Senate's budget committee approved a measure yesterday to create a Newark sports and entertainment district whose sales tax revenue would be earmarked to help finance the proposed $355 million Newark arena. The bill also creates a similar district for the Meadowlands to help finance a family entertainment and sports complex to replace Continental Arena. 
The measure, created to keep Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco's promise to Bergen County lawmakers that they would not be left without an economic engine for the vast Meadowlands, also earmarks $300 million for a long-sought rail spur into the Meadowlands and extensive road work. The bill is likely to pass the full Senate this week as the state rushes to meet a July 1 deadline set by YankeeNets, developers of the proposed Newark arena. At the last minute, authority was added to the bill for the districts to impose hotel taxes to help finance development. The bill would allow Newark to increase its hotel tax up to 12 percent, from 6 percent, and the Meadowlands district to impose a hotel tax of up to 6 percent. Ronald Smothers (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SALES TAX (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); APPROVALS (78%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; MEADOWLANDS SPORTS COMPLEX (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); STADIUMS AND ARENAS; TAXATION; SALES TAX 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY; NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



663 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Near Record, Climbing 2.9% 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes rose in May to the third-highest level as falling mortgage rates kept housing resistant to the economy's slowdown.
 Resales increased 2.9 percent, to an annual pace of 5.37 million houses from 5.22 million in April, the National Association of Realtors said. Only in March of this year and in June 1999 was the pace of sales faster than it was last month. 
 Through May, sales were 2.6 percent higher than in the period a year earlier. If the current rate holds, 5.25 million homes will sell this year, which would beat the record 5.21 million sold for all of 1999.
"Each month is just getting better," said Brenda Shipplett, an executive vice president at Long & Foster Real Estate Inc., a mid-Atlantic agency.
The median price of a home rose 1.7 percent last month, to a record $145,500. That compares with $143,100 in April and is 5.7 percent higher than in May of last year. The increase in home values has made housing an attractive investment, analysts said.
By region, sales of previously owned homes rose 3.8 percent in the South, 3.5 percent in the Midwest and 2.3 percent in the West. Sales were unchanged in the Northeast.
The supply of homes available for sale, another gauge of housing demand, fell to 3.4 months' worth in May from 3.7 months in April.
Mortgage rates that are lower this year than last year have underpinned demand. The weekly average rate on a 30-year mortgage this year is 7.07 percent, compared with the 8.05 percent average for all of 2000.
Still, the slowing economy may become an obstacle to the housing market later this year. Companies have been forced to lay off workers to protect profits. The economy lost 201,000 jobs in April and May, the largest two-month decrease since April-May 1991. "If we don't see layoffs begin to taper off, we may see home sales weaken" in the next few months, said Mark Vitner, an economist at First Union Securities Inc. in Charlotte, N.C.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAYOFFS (85%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); SALES FIGURES (79%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%) HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS 

COMPANY: LONG & FOSTER REAL ESTATE INC (70%); WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%) NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (70%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (63%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (50%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



664 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
To End Deadlock, Large TV Networks Cut Rates

BYLINE:  By STUART ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
In the stalemate between Broadcast Row and Madison Avenue, most of the TV folks are blinking.
 Several of the big broadcast networks are lowering the rates they had planned to charge the major agencies for commercials in prime time during the coming fall season. Those "sale" signs are finally breaking the logjam in the negotiations between the two sides, which had caused the most sluggish start in years for the so-called upfront market. 
 The effect is the same as when retailers cut prices on leftover fashions so shoppers rethink their reluctance to buy, and the garments fly out of the stores.
The reductions mean that for the first time since the recession of 1991, the amount that advertisers must pay to reach 1,000 viewers will probably decline on average. The total dollars spent in advance of the 2001-02 season will also be 10 percent to 15 percent less than what was spent before the beginning of the 2000-01 season, a larger shortfall than had been estimated even a month ago. 
The cutting of rates for the cost per thousand viewers, which has the upfront market moving briskly after weeks of torpor, is being done because of widespread doubts that the slowdown in the national economy will end soon.
"The prices have come down versus a year ago in reflection of the economy," Jon Mandel, co-managing director at MediaCom in New York, a large media services agency owned by the Grey Global Group, said yesterday. "So the upfront is being written at good rates."
"It's somewhat like a divorce, with rejection, denial and acceptance," he added. "Most networks have gotten to the acceptance stage."
The result is that those networks' executives would rather book business now than gamble they can do so at higher rates when the 2001-2002 season is under way.
"It took time to read the market," said Randy Falco, president at the NBC Television Network unit of NBC in New York, owned by General Electric.
"We read the marketplace last week," he added, "and the assessment was we wanted to get out quickly. We made modest price concessions, and we're pleased with where we are."
However, one network, CBS, is by all accounts holding firm to its risky strategy of insisting that commercial time will not be sold at rates lower than last season's. CBS, and to a lesser degree its smaller sibling, UPN, both part of Viacom, are betting that advertisers will be eager to pay more later on, in what is known as the scatter market. The theory is that by then, the economy will have improved and advertisers will be more willing to spend money.
"Our position has been, with our performance last year, with our growth on Thursday night with 'Survivor' and 'C.S.I.,' that we feel our programming is worth what we've been asking for it," said Dana McClintock, a spokesman at CBS in New York.
"As we continue to sell," he added, "we're more concerned with price than volume."
Typically, the broadcast networks sell 70 percent to 80 percent of the commercial time available in a season during the upfront market. In hewing to the strategy outlined in the spring by Mel Karmazin, president and chief operating officer at Viacom, CBS may sell far less of its inventory than that while the other networks sell about that amount. That sets up another gamble for CBS, that agencies will not divert dollars from CBS to other broadcast networks -- or to cable networks or nationally syndicated programs.
"This is far and away the most fascinating upfront I've been through after 20 of them," said Dan Rank, managing partner at OMD in New York, a media buying unit of the Omnicom Group.
"The key word here is 'uncertainty,' " he added. "Clearly, the other networks said, 'Let's take the money and run,' because of the uncertainty."
On the other side of the bargaining table, most network sales managers agreed, with various degrees of reluctance.
"The total dollars surfacing weren't what we'd hoped for," said Mike Shaw, president for sales and marketing at the ABC Television Network unit of ABC in New York, owned by the Walt Disney Company.
The agencies' adamance that they weren't going to pay a lot for commercial time in the upfront market was "more than mere posturing," he added.
As a result, ABC has rapidly followed NBC in cutting its rates per thousand viewers, known as cpm's. The Fox Broadcasting Company did the same, but by less.
"We've more than offset our cpm losses with our ratings growth," said Jon Nesvig, president for sales at Fox in New York, part of the News Corporation.
The one network so far that is selling commercial time at a a cost per thousand viewers higher than last season is WB, owned by AOL Time Warner and the Tribune Company.
"We will be the only network to receive cpm increases and revenue increases in this upfront marketplace," said Jed Petrick, president and chief operating officer at WB in Burbank, Calif.
"With our growth last year in the 18-to-34-year-old demographics," he added, "more and more marketers are realizing the importance of reaching the next generation of consumers."
Based on discussions with executives at the networks and the agencies, the consensus estimates for the networks when the upfront market is completed, which may come as soon as this week, are as follows. Note well, though, that all numbers are, as the old railroad timetables once admonished, subject to change without notice, because as Mr. Rank observed, "Some agencies still haven't bought." 
*WB is raising its cost per thousand 3 percent to 5 percent and will take in $450 million to $475 million, compared with an estimated $425 million sold in the upfront market last season.
*Fox is lowering its cost per thousand 1 percent to 3 percent and will take in about $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion, about flat compared with last season.
*NBC is cutting its cost per thousand 5 percent to 8 percent and will take in $1.9 billion to $2.1 billion, compared with $2.2 billion last season.
*ABC is cutting its cost per thousand 6 percent to 9 percent and will take in about $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion, compared with $2.3 billion last season.
As for CBS and UPN, Mr. Mandel at MediaCom said he thought that by waiting to sell most of his commercial time in the scatter market, Mr. Karmazin "may be right in the second and third quarters of next year," when the economy is expected to be much stronger than in the corresponding quarters of 2001 and higher demand would bring higher prices. "But the question is, will he make up then for what he loses in the fourth quarter of this year and the first quarter of next year?"
CBS sold $1.6 billion in the upfront market last year and UPN sold $150 million. Most estimates are that CBS has sold only $500 million so far, on the way to $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion, but there are also estimates that CBS has sold more than $800 million.
The UPN estimates are harder to come by; by some accounts, UPN has sold only $30 million so far, on the way to $160 million to $180 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (75%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%) TELEVISION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); MANDEL CO (67%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); VIACOM INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ABC INC; NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; CBS CORP; FOX BROADCASTING CO; UNITED PARAMOUNT NETWORK; WB TELEVISION NETWORK 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); VIA (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (67%); SIC2796 PLATEMAKING & RELATED SERVICES (67%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



665 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: Liberal Radio Mainstay May Sell to Make Way for ESPN 

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR 

 BODY:
The trouble began five months ago. That is when the rumors began to surface that the venerable WEVD radio station was going to be sold and then turned into an ESPN sports station.
 Managers at WEVD (1050 AM) began drifting into mysterious meetings, and top executives at the Walt Disney Company's ABC Radio began boasting to others in the industry that they were going to buy the station in order to bring ESPN Radio to New York City. 
 Demonstrations were planned. A Web site, www.savewevd.com, was set up for listeners to complain and organize an attempt to block any sale of the station. At least one WEVD talk show host expressed concerns on the air.
Talks have bogged down since then, but industry analysts view the sale as inevitable. Meanwhile, the campaign to oppose the sale remains in full swing.
At a time of vast consolidation in the radio industry, WEVD has been an exception. The station, founded in 1927 to promote fiercely liberal programming, took its call letters from Eugene V. Debs, the co-founder of the Socialist Party and a five-time presidential candidate. The station was bought in 1931 by The Jewish Daily Forward. For decades, it was very profitable.
But times have changed.
The association that owns the station and The Forward, now published weekly, has seen the newspaper's circulation drop and its losses increase to more than $2 million a year. Radio industry executives estimate that WEVD, which is marginally profitable, could bring $80 million to $90 million in a sale, enough to keep The Forward running for at least four more decades.
Samuel Norich, the president of the group that owns the station, the Forward Association, did not return telephone calls to his office and home. Timothy McCarthy, the ABC Radio executive who would most likely become the general manager of WEVD if it were bought by Disney, did not return calls either.
But ABC executives said that talks had indeed started and that Mr. McCarthy envisioned using WEVD to compete against WFAN (660 AM), the CBS/Infinity Broadcasting sports station, which brings in more advertising revenue than any other radio station outfit in the region.
The talks have stalled in recent days, but Tony Sanders, a senior analyst with Duncan's American Radio, sees a sale of WEVD as inevitable. He said that because of a recent trend toward packaging advertising accounts across groups of affiliated stations, the two best ways a station owner can compete is to buy stations and consolidate or to sell stations to other group owners. 
Selling WEVD would give the Forward Association a profitable escape at a time when Disney is working hard to find ways to get ESPN Radio into New York. But the economic realities of the radio industry do little to mollify those who listen to and work at WEVD.
"If the goal is to use WEVD as a way to help the financial underpinnings of The Forward, that can be done without selling the radio station," said Alan Colmes, the liberal co-host of Fox Television's "Hannity and Colmes," who has a weeknight talk show on WEVD. "To let go of this would be a true shame in a marketplace where there are so few independent voices."
The station, calling itself the Voice of Labor in the 1920's and the University of the Air in the 1930's, was best known for helping immigrants make the transition to America with shows in Yiddish, Polish and Greek. It later became known as the Station That Speaks Your Language.
What upsets many who work and listen to WEVD is that the station managers are not speaking at all.
Bill Mazer is an old New York radio man with a young voice who has been on the air since 1947 and has a morning show on WEVD. He said that the thing that irks him the most is that management has not told employees of any potential changes.
"The funniest thing to me is that there is the rumor that it is going to be a sports talk station, and I am the father of sports talk in New York," Mr. Mazer said, noting that he started a sports show on WNBC in 1964. 
Charles Zlatkin, a postal worker in Manhattan who started savewevd .com, said, "The thing that has irritated us, the group of listeners all over the area, is that not one person who has called, sent a letter or e-mail has received even a postcard response, which is curious."
Mr. Zlatkin said that listeners were trying to block the sale of WEVD or buy it themselves. His group plans a protest on Thursday afternoon in front of the association's offices at 45 East 33rd Street.
Edward I. Koch, the former mayor, whose talk show began running on WEVD three years ago after being canceled by WABC for low ratings, said that WEVD seemed as much a New York landmark as City Hall.
"WEVD is an institution that goes back as far as I can remember in giving voice to ethnic groups and giving voice to the poor," Mr. Koch said. "And the call letters say it all -- it is for the great Socialists."
Mr. Koch then joked about his openness to change.
"I am enjoying it, and I hope WEVD does not sell the station because I am not good at sports," Mr. Koch said. "But if they sell it and I have to do the Yankees, I'll do the Yankees." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); LIBERAL MEDIA (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TRENDS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (70%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%) NEWSPAPERS; RADIO; JEWS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (85%); ESPN INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: WEVD-AM (NYC RADIO STATION); FORWARD (NEWSPAPER); DISNEY, WALT, CO; ABC RADIO; ESPN 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



666 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Seattle Failure Weighs on Future of NewTrade Talks 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 25 

 BODY:
While huge diplomatic momentum is gathering behind the idea of a new round of global trade talks, fundamental differences between rich and poor nations and the United States and its trading partners over what should be on the agenda are clouding the talks before they can begin, just as they did in Seattle in December 1999.
 After being mired for a year after the Seattle debacle, the trade-round juggernaut began to gather speed again early in the year when Pascal Lamy, the European Union's trade commissioner, spoke strongly in favor of starting a new round at the World Trade Organization's next ministerial meeting, to be held in November in Doha, Qatar. In May, President Bush declared free trade a "moral imperative," and the United States trade representative, Robert Zoellick, promoted the idea on a subsequent swing through Europe. 
 Trade ministers from Asian nations added their voices, saying a new round is urgently needed to head off the protectionism that often flares when economies slow down. Last month, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development also called for a trade round. 
For the Doha meeting to succeed, the trade group must find enough common ground among its members to hammer out a workable agenda before it starts. To that end, trade officials have gathered at the organization's headquarters in Geneva in recent weeks, and early soundings have found deep disagreements. 
"It's obvious there is a large gap in views," one European envoy said.
The divisions follow a pattern that was largely evident before the failed Seattle meeting. The European Union leads a group of nations favoring a broad mandate for the talks to make trade concessions more palatable domestically. They want to include food safety, environmental standards, foreign direct investment and national competition policy in the talks.
The United States, which has yet to state its position unequivocally, is believed to want to sidestep fractious subjects like antidumping rules and limits on import surges. In May, Mr. Zoellick said Washington favored a "focused agenda" concentrating on better access for services and agricultural and industrial goods.
So far, the American and European representatives here have played down differences in public, most recently at a joint news conference today, where both sides used the term "ambitious agenda" for their positions. But President Bush's steps to curb steel imports and a belief that he wants to avoid signing any agreements that would foreclose such actions have irritated some United States trading partners.
But the developing countries that make up the bulk of the trade organization want limits on such antidumping actions to be high on the agenda. Led by India and Pakistan, the developing nations have spoken about opposing a new trade round because they say their interests received inadequate attention at the last set of talks, the Uruguay Round, which ended in 1994.
"We are not ready for it," India's trade envoy, Srinivasan Narayanan, said of plans to start a new round at Doha. "We'll lose more than we'll gain." 
The person who is trying to reconcile these competing views is Mike Moore, head of the World Trade Organization, who has been trying to build momentum for a new round since the Seattle meeting fell apart a few months into his term. Mr. Moore wants an outline agenda in place by the end of July, so that negotiations will not stretch into the 11th hour as they did at Seattle.
Mindful of the stakes, a group of high-level trade officials traveled to Geneva from their home capitals today to try to move the process forward. "If we fail for a second time, it will contaminate the atmosphere and create the idea that we can't take the hard decisions," Japan's trade negotiator, Yoichi Suzuki, said last week. Japan is generally aligned with Europe in the talks.
Some diplomats believe that most of the bare-minimum ingredients of a new round are already in place -- the talks on agriculture and on services, including banking, insurance and telecommunications, that were agreed to during the Uruguay Round. If one or two more areas, like tariffs on nonfarm products or trade facilitation, can be added, the talks could be labeled a new round.
Looming in the background is the volatile issue of linking labor standards to trade. Developing countries bitterly oppose making labor standards a matter for the trade organization, which can authorize sanctions. "For them, this is not a line in the sand, it is a canyon," Mr. Moore said. But American and European labor unions have pressed hard for a system that can impose real consequences on countries that fail to protect workers and the environment, and street protests over the issue helped sink the Seattle talks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Moore was the new head of the World Trade Organization when it met in Seattle in late 1999. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (94%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); FOOD SAFETY (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (55%) WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (58%); PASCAL LAMY (55%) OLSON, ELIZABETH; MOORE, MIKE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (98%) WASHINGTON, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); QATAR (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); INDIA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%) DOHA (QATAR); SEATTLE (WASH)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



667 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Bush Makes Airline Strike Unlikely 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
The White House today effectively halted any chance of a strike next week by the flight attendants of American Airlines, saying President Bush would intervene if no contract settlement was reached this week.
 A White House statement said federal mediators overseeing the contract talks had requested the appointment of a presidential emergency board, which would extend the current cooling-off period that is preventing a walkout for an additional 60 days. 
 The cooling-off period expires at 12:01 a.m. Sunday, and the White House said an emergency board would be appointed at that time if no tentative contract agreement was in place.
"The president will accept that recommendation and create an emergency board if the parties are unable to reach a negotiated settlement," the statement said.
American, a unit of AMR, and its flight attendants union are scheduled to resume talks with federal mediators on Thursday.
"The president is concerned a major airline strike could threaten the economy," the statement said. "He also wants to assure the public that they can enjoy the upcoming Fourth of July holiday without fear that their travel plans will be disrupted by a strike at American Airlines." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); STRIKES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; STRIKES; FLIGHT ATTENDANTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



668 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Shield Is Sought for Employers Under Patients' Bill of Rights 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25 

 BODY:
The Senate began a second week of debate today on a far-reaching bill to define patients' rights, with Democrats looking for some way to limit the liability of employers who might be sued by employees in disputes over health care benefits.
 The Democrats' bill would guarantee patients a wide range of rights and would make it easier for them to sue health maintenance organizations and other health plans in federal and state courts. President Bush has threatened to veto the bill, saying it would raise the cost of health insurance by exposing employers as well as insurers to new lawsuits. 
 Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, has offered an amendment that would provide employers with full immunity against lawsuits filed by workers or their dependents. 
Sponsors of the bill, led by Senator John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina, are working with Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, on a compromise that would allow employers to limit their liability. An aide to Ms. Snowe said she had discussed the proposed compromise today with Andrew H. Card Jr., the White House chief of staff. 
Under the proposal, Mr. Edwards said, employers could name an outside entity as "a designated decision maker," and that entity would bear the liability if a patient was injured as a result of the denial of promised health benefits.
Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, said today that he was working on an alternative that would provide much more protection to employers, insurers and H.M.O.'s. Under his plan, Mr. Breaux said, patients would have to exhaust all administrative appeals before filing any lawsuits, and the federal government would limit the amount of damages that could be recovered.
Senator Edwards said sponsors of the bill would strenuously resist Mr. Breaux's proposal because it did not adequately protect patients.
Republican senators said they were planning to offer numerous amendments to produce a bill that Mr. Bush could sign. But Democrats said that they saw no reason to make significant concessions and that Mr. Bush would pay a high political price if he vetoed a patients' rights bill.
House Republicans have drafted a bill more acceptable to Mr. Bush. They plan to introduce it on Tuesday.
The Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said today that the need for legislation defining patients' rights had been significantly reduced by voluntary corrective actions of health insurance companies and by passage of state laws to protect patients in most states.
"In most cases," Mr. Lott said, "the issues that caused this to come up in the first place have already been addressed. Some of the mistakes that were being made by managed care organizations -- they stopped making those mistakes." 
Mr. Lott said many states "have moved in this area and have acted responsibly, and it's working." He said Republicans would offer an amendment this week to ensure that the federal government, in setting minimum standards for health insurance, did not "overrun or pre-empt the state laws."
Senator Breaux said he would offer an amendment protecting any state laws that were "consistent with" the new federal standards. Democrats insist that the state laws must be at least substantially equivalent to the federal standards.
The Senate today continued debate on the bill, which would guarantee patients access to emergency care, medical specialists and an independent medical review of decisions denying health care benefits. Under the bill, doctors could prescribe any medically necessary drugs for their patients, regardless of whether the drugs were on a health plan's list of preferred medications, and health plans would have to provide access to clinical trials of experimental therapies if no standard treatment was effective.
The bill applies to more than 180 million people with private health insurance, but does not guarantee coverage for any of the 43 million people who are uninsured. The legislation does not expand Medicaid, Medicare or the Children's Health Insurance Program, nor does it provide tax breaks to help people buy private health insurance.
Most of the debate focused on Republican assertions that injured patients would use the bill as a basis to sue everyone in sight: H.M.O.'s, employers, doctors, nurses, hospitals.
Lobbyists for the managed care industry made available legal memorandums stating that the Democrats' bill would create opportunities for patients to file lawsuits against doctors and the trustees of multi-employer plans that provide health benefits to hundreds of thousands of union workers in industries like construction, mining and transportation.
The American Medical Association and many doctors strongly support the bill. In response to concerns expressed by some doctors, the sponsors of the bill limited the patient's ability to sue a "treating physician" in federal court.
But a legal opinion prepared for the American Association of Health Plans, which represents H.M.O.'s, says that the bill "does nothing" to protect doctors from new lawsuits that might be filed against them in state courts. Likewise, it says, the trustees of collectively bargained health plans could be sued in federal court for "unlimited economic and noneconomic damages and for a civil penalty up to $5 million" if their decisions caused injury to a patient.
Senator Lott complained that the bill relied too much on litigation, saying: "It's sue, sue, sue. That's not the answer."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Trent Lott talked with reporters yesterday about a patients' bill of rights. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); VETO (89%); INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); IMMUNITY (72%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE 

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); DONNA F EDWARDS (78%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (73%); PHIL GRAMM (58%) PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



669 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
Fed Credits a New Economy With Altering Old Patterns

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
About 2 o'clock this afternoon, the 17 members of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee will file into their second-floor boardroom on Constitution Avenue in Washington, find the large chairs with the brass plates bearing their names and sit down optimistic that the economy is about to improve. 
 It will have to defy history for them to be correct. 
 For the last 30 years, each time that the nation's payrolls have shrunk as much as they have recently, they have continued falling for months and a recession has ensued or has already been under way. Over an even longer period, the same is true of a broad measure of the value of goods that the nation's companies are selling and of a broad measure of the amount that manufacturers are producing. 
These are not merely a few statistics among many. They form the core of the definition of a recession given by the National Bureau of Economic Research, a group of academics widely considered to be the official referee of economic cycles. Last week, the group released a statement saying that there is now "the possibility that a recession began recently."
More important than what the statistics mean for an academic definition, they suggest that the worst of the economic downturn may not yet be over. In the past, when the economy weakened as it has this year, it has ignited a vicious cycle of layoffs, sluggish consumer spending and yet more layoffs that took almost a year to end.
"It's very likely that we are in a recession now" and recessions typically last about 10 months, said Lakshman Achuthan, the managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute in New York. "They snowball."
But Alan Greenspan, his colleagues at the Fed and nearly all Wall Street economists think that the $10 trillion American economy can be turned around more quickly than ever before. The credit, they say, belongs to a "new economy" that has survived the bursting of the dot-com bubble and is altering decades-old economic patterns.
"Is there a new economy?" Laurence H. Meyer, one of the Fed's governors, asked in a speech earlier this month. In the United States, "the answer, I believe, is yes, we are in a new economy."
The technological innovations of recent years have allowed the average worker to produce more goods in an hour, most economists say. This has kept inflation low because companies do not have to raise prices -- even as the long expansion has caused wages to rise -- to increase their profits. With inflation low, the Fed could reduce interest rates more aggressively than it had at the start of other slowdowns, when it was concerned that the stimulus would send inflation to unacceptable levels.
Since January, the Fed has cut interest rates five times, and it is expected to do so again at the two-day meeting that starts today. If it makes a one-quarter-point cut -- and a growing group of analysts is predicting a half-point reduction instead -- the Fed will have lowered rates by 2.75 percentage points in less than six months. During the last recession, in 1990-91, it took more than a year to do so.
Technology also enabled many businesses, like automakers, to notice the slowdown almost as soon as it started late last year. The companies then decreased their production sharply, sold some of their bulging inventories and are now in better shape than they were at a similar point in earlier downturns, according to the consensus. 
On average, analysts are predicting that the economy will hit a nadir in the current quarter, growing just 1 percent, slightly less than it did during the end of 2000 and the first three months of this year, according to Blue Chip Economic Indicators, a newsletter based in Kansas City, Mo. In the final six months of this year -- with inventories shrinking, tax rebate checks going out in the mail and lower interest rates encouraging consumers and businesses to spend money -- growth will accelerate to about 2.5 percent, according to this forecast.
In speeches around the country in the last two months, Mr. Greenspan, who is the Fed's chairman, and other members of the rate-setting committee have offered a similar if less specific analysis. "Looking forward, I'd say the U.S. economy still has a lot going for it, and that we're likely to see an acceleration in growth by the end of the year," Robert T. Parry, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said earlier this month.
Late last month, in language typical for him, Mr. Greenspan said that the Fed's "front-loaded policy actions this year should be providing substantial support for a strengthening of economic activity later this year."
If so, it would be an occurrence extremely rare in the last 50 years. Since World War II, manufacturing-and-trade sales -- the measure of goods sold -- have fallen at least 1.8 percent, as they have in recent months, on 10 other occasions, according to the Economic Cycle Research Institute. Each time in the past, the measure continued falling by at least two more percentage points, and with the single exception of the early 1950's and the Korean War, a recession ensued.
Of the 20 times that employment has declined by at least as much as it has recently, a recession has followed (or had recently ended) 17 times, and all three exceptions happened before 1969. Industrial production -- the measure of manufacturing output -- has a perfect record of predicting recessions since World War II.
The fourth variable in the official definition of recession -- in addition to employment, output and sales -- is income, but it frequently continues to rise even during recessions, Mr. Achuthan said.
Some of the optimists say that the historical strength of the economy, relative to almost every other period besides last year, will be the difference. With unemployment still low, consumers have continued to buy everything from clothing to houses at a fairly brisk pace.
"You have to be careful with growth rates; they can be misleading," Arthur J. Rolnick, the director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said. "We're still really well off."
Even if unemployment rises this summer, weakening consumer spending, the interest rate cuts and tax rebates will keep the economy from recession, the optimists say. 
But none of this is an exact science, Mr. Rolnick said. The chances that the consensus will be wrong, and the economy will indeed worsen in the coming months, are about "30 to 40 percent," he added.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Worrisome Indicators"Two primary economic statistics used to determine whether the economy is in a recession have declined recently. But while declines in those measures usually indicate a recession, there have been a couple of instances since World War II when those measures declined and the economy did not slide into a recession. Chart tracks Nonfarm employment, based on establishment survey and Manufacturing and trade sales, in 1996 dollars since 1950.(Source: Economic Cycle Research Institute)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); RECESSION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); INTEREST RATES (83%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (68%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (68%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); PRICE CHANGES (62%); WORLD WAR II (59%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; PRODUCTIVITY 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



670 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Sharon, in New York, Urges Arafat to 'Put Out Flames' 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, speaking last night in New York, demanded an end to violence by Palestinians as a condition of carrying forward peace efforts, and called on Yasir Arafat to bring a halt to attacks on Israelis. 
 "It is not enough that Arafat lower the flames of violence temporarily," Mr. Sharon said at a dinner at the Pierre New York hotel for the America-Israel Friendship Committee. "He must put out the flames of violence permanently. That is our demand; that is the birthright of our nation." 
 Mr. Sharon, who is to meet with President Bush today, stopped short of offering concessions, like support for a freeze on the building and expansion of settlements, which was one of the recommendations made in support of peace by an international committee led by George J. Mitchell, the former United States senator. 
But Mr. Sharon's spokesman, Ra'anan Gissin, left open the door for some concessions on settlements. "If they are illegal, they will not be there," Mr. Gissin said. But he repeated the Israeli position that there would be no "political negotiations," as he put it, until hostilities cease.
The Mitchell plan calls for a halt to violence, a cooling-off period, confidence-building measures and then the resumption of talks. 
"Today we are facing a campaign of terrorism against us," Mr. Sharon said. "For us, peace is the natural choice, and I will spare no effort in order to achieve it." Therefore, he said, Israel accepted the Tenet proposal. 
"We insisted that the cease-fire includes all forms of violence and hostilities," he said. His written text included a demand that the throwing of rocks and gasoline bombs also cease, but he did not mention the point in his speech.
He said Palestinian leaders should re-arrest "terrorists who are now free but still seek to attack innocent Israeli civilians." The Palestinians say they want to negotiate immediately, but they add that demanding a total end to violence is unreasonable. 
For its part, Israel faces increasing pressure from the right and from settlers to respond strongly to the violence. American officials fear that tough retaliation will cripple the latest peace effort and push the situation back into chaos, after the period of relative calm that has held since the June 13 cease-fire. 
Mr. Sharon, who arrived from a meeting in London with Prime Minister Tony Blair, used the dinner speech as a stepping stone toward Washington, for his second meeting with President Bush since becoming prime minister on March 7. He is also to meet today with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who is to travel to Israel.
The cease-fire and the Mitchell report will be on the agenda, but Mr. Sharon's aides made it clear last night that Israel would assert its right to take action against Palestinian militants. 
"We will act for our right of self-defense," Mr. Gissin said. 
Dore Gold, a Sharon adviser, said Israel had specifically "targeted" Palestinian militants whom it blames for terror attacks over the last several months.
Palestinians say Israel did so, for example, on Sunday, when a Palestinian militant, Osama Jawabri, 29, was killed by an explosion as he talked on a public telephone in Nablus, on the West Bank. The manner of his death was similar to the killings of other militants.
"We have nothing to do with that," Mr. Gissin said. "That was an on-the-job accident. Maybe he shouldn't make phone calls."
Mr. Sharon is also expected to raise allegations that Osama bin Laden, the exiled Saudi dissident and accused terrorist, is seeking to establish a network of agents in Israel, his aides said.
Mr. Sharon also touched on economic issues, saying his government was committed to a low deficit, a lighter tax burden, more government spending on infrastructure and education, and low inflation. 
He said he would push ahead with privatization, and strive for "the necessary reforms in tax, capital markets, pension funds and the liberalization of foreign currency." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TERRORISM (78%); RIOTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA-ISRAEL FRIENDSHIP COMMITTEE 

PERSON: GEORGE J MITCHELL (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%); TONY BLAIR (59%) WAKIN, DANIEL J; MITCHELL, GEORGE J; ARAFAT, YASIR; SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



671 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Trenton Budget Nears Passage Despite Democrats' Objections 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT HANLEY 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 25 

 BODY:
A $22.9 billion New Jersey budget was cleared for final passage today as two Republican-dominated committees brushed off Democrats' complaints and approved the plan in party-line voting.
 The budget is now scheduled for votes Thursday in the Republican-controlled Senate and General Assembly and, in light of today's partisan voting, appears headed for easy approval before the start of the state's new fiscal year on July 1. 
 Democratic critics focused today on uncertainties about projected revenues. Barbara Buono, the ranking Democrat on the Assembly Budget Committee, denounced the budget as dishonest and a fraud. She also criticized the state treasurer, Peter R. Lawrance, for refusing to appear before the panel for questioning about his recent projections that revenues from major taxes were $948 million below estimates made in January. 
A nonpartisan branch of the Legislature that analyzes the state's fiscal affairs, the Office of Legislative Services, contends that the slump is worse and puts the shortfall at $1.6 billion for the rest of this fiscal year and the 2002 fiscal year.
Ms. Buono argued today that the extent of the shortfall would not be known until next April, months after New Jersey voters choose a new governor and a new Legislature.
The head of the Budget Committee, Leonard Lance, a Flemington Republican, said he, too, was disappointed that Mr. Lawrance had avoided his committee. Mr. Lance called the budget challenging but responsible, without any cuts in essential state services. And he said the budget's $1 billion surplus would satisfy Wall Street institutions that rate state bonds while providing a cushion in the case of a recession. 
The Assembly committee approved the budget, 7 to 4. Later, the plan passed the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee, 7 to 2. The chairman of that panel, Robert E. Littell, a Franklin Republican, said, "It's a budget we can all be proud of." Then he took note of questions about projected revenues. "If we made a mistake, we will come back and correct it," he said.
Like Assemblyman Lance, Senator Littell praised the budget's two multimillion-dollar tax rebate programs sought by Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco. One, the New Jersey Saver program, increases the average annual payment to homeowners in September to $500 from $240. The other, the Homestead Rebate, increases a state payment to elderly and disabled homeowners to $750 from $500.
A Democrat on the Senate committee, Sharpe James, who is also the mayor of Newark, broke ranks with two fellow Democrats on the panel and voted with the Republicans. He said he was supporting the budget because Mr. DiFrancesco was pushing for construction of a new arena for the Nets and the Devils in downtown Newark. Mr. James was also the only Democrat to voice any concern today about the tax rebates. He said homeowners who earned more than $200,000 a year did not need the $500 from the New Jersey Saver program. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); BONDS (69%); RECESSION (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: LEONARD LANCE (78%) HANLEY, ROBERT; BUONO, BARBARA; LAWRANCE, PETER R 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



672 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: POWELL, AT U.N., ASKS WAR ON AID 

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER S. WREN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 25 

 BODY:
Striking an assertive tone for the Bush administration on AIDS policy, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell told the General Assembly today that "from this moment on," the world's response to the disease "must be no less comprehensive, no less relentless and no less swift than the pandemic itself."
 During a special session on AIDS, Secretary Powell held out the possibility of further American contributions to a global fund being set up to finance the fight against the disease, following the $200 million offered by the Bush administration last month. The secretary of state, who expressed his concern over the AIDS crisis in Africa during a visit last month, said the United States would also continue to lead the world in providing money for research. 
 Secretary Powell stopped short of saying how much more money the administration would contribute to the global fund, or when. But he said the initial contribution was "only a beginning." 
As the session got under way, the United States also announced in Washington that it would drop its World Trade Organization litigation against Brazil for planning to produce and market generic anti-AIDS medicine. Page A4. 
Echoing the basis of that decision, Secretary Powell told the delegates: "No war on the face of the world is more destructive than the AIDS pandemic. I was a soldier, but I know of no enemy in war more insidious or vicious than AIDS, an enemy that poses a clear and present danger to the world."
Later, answering questions from reporters about the Bush administration's plans, Secretary Powell said, "I would expect that additional funds would be found in the future and appropriated" by the United States. He said he expected the new global fund, which Secretary General Kofi Annan proposed in April, to start showing results by the end of the year. "To date, the United States has dedicated over $1.6 billion to combat AIDS in the developing world," Secretary Powell said in his speech. President Bush's budget for the next fiscal year seeks $480 million to fight AIDS, the secretary said, more than twice that spent during the 2000 fiscal year.
President Bush is also requesting more than $3.4 billion for AIDS research, Secretary Powell said. "The United States, I pledge today, will continue to lead the world in funding vital research," he said.
The special session, to conclude on Wednesday, is the first devoted to a public health issue. For all the talk today in more than 70 speeches, success hinges in large part on Mr. Annan's ability to attract donors to the global fund, which would spend $7 billion to $10 billion annually to combat AIDS and other infectious diseases, notably malaria and tuberculosis.
Mr. Annan said his goal was to have the fund operating by the end of the year. "We must mobilize the money required for this exceptional effort, and we must make sure it is used effectively," he said today.
So far, the United States, France and Britain, as well as the the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, have together pledged a little more than $500 million. Norway came forward today to offer $110 million. "The counteroffensive against AIDS cannot be won without a bigger war chest," said the Norwegian minister for international development, Anne Kristin Sydnes.
The secretary general opened the conference today with a plea for more compassion for people with AIDS. "When we urge others to change their behavior, so as to protect themselves against infection, we must be able to change our behavior in the public arena," Mr. Annan said.
"We cannot deal with AIDS by making moral judgments or refusing to face unpleasant facts -- and still less by stigmatizing those who are infected, and making out that it is all their fault," he continued. "We can only do it by speaking clearly and openly, both about the ways that people become infected, and about what they can do to avoid infection."
The secretary general's appeal for tolerance was the latest in his continuing effort during the last year to curb divisions and antagonisms -- prejudice against AIDS patients, poor countries' resentment of richer ones and suspicion of big business, especially pharmaceutical companies -- that have frustrated the formation of an effective united front against the epidemic.
Mr. Annan demonstrated anew his instincts for conciliation, which further assured his anticipated nomination this week for a second five-year term as secretary general. The Security Council is expected to endorse him on Wednesday and the General Assembly appears in a mood to approve another term.
Still, it was unclear how much would be accomplished at the General Assembly session, which was attended by two dozen heads of state and hundreds of health ministers, other government officials and diplomats. An estimated 3,000 people have attended, inside and outside the conference.
Clare Short, the British secretary of state for international development, complained that AIDS had been around for 20 years, and that too much time and energy were being wasted at United Nations conferences. "We use up enormous energy in arguing at great length over texts that provide few, if any, followup mechanisms or assurances that governments and U.N. agencies will carry forward the declarations that are agreed," she said.
"There have been enough conferences and declarations," Ms. Short said. "What we need now is urgent and much more effective action on a much wider scale to prevent the terrible suffering, loss of life and costs to development that this terrible disease is inflicting across the world."
The conference is scheduled to conclude with the signing of a declaration setting out goals and targets containing and reversing the AIDS epidemic. But some Muslim countries have objected to explicit references in the draft text to homosexuals, prostitutes and intravenous drug users as people vulnerable to the disease, delaying its completion.
In another contentious event, a private advocacy group, the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission, regained its seat in one of the roundtable discussions outside the General Assembly after Canada, Norway and Sweden pressed its case. The group was excluded when some conservative delegates objected to its participation.
Mr. Annan reminded delegates that AIDS had set back development in some African countries by a decade or more, and was now spreading "with lightning speed" through Eastern Europe, Asia and the Caribbean. He recited statistics underscoring the toll taken by AIDS around the world: nearly 22 million dead, 13 million children orphaned, more than 36 million living with AIDS or H.I.V. "Every day, another 15,000 people acquire the virus," he said. 
President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria painted an even bleaker picture of Africa as home to 70 percent of the adults and 80 percent of the children infected with H.I.V. in the world and three-fourths of those who have died from AIDS.
"With this trend in statistics, the future of our continent is bleak, to say the least, and the prospect of extinction of the entire continent looms larger and larger," Mr. Obasanjo said. "We do not have any choice but to contemplate exceptional measures to contain the spread and devastation of H.I.V./AIDS."
President John Agyekum Kufuor of Ghana said: "These statistics are frightening and more so when we know that only about 40 percent of the cases are recorded. What this means is that our social security and our economic development efforts are being undermined faster than we can by ourselves contain." 
President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, who once expressed doubts that AIDS was caused by a virus, did not attend the session, despite his visit to Washington this week.
His government recently set aside plans to distribute antiretroviral AIDS drugs, after battling pharmaceutical companies for the right to do do.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption yesterday about the opening of the United Nations General Assembly on AIDS in New York misspelled the name of the president of the General Assembly. He is Harri Holkeri, not Harry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Piot, left, executive director of the United Nations agency fighting AIDS, with Secretary General Kofi Annan, center, and Harry Holkeri, president of the General Assembly, spreading an AIDS quilt yesterday. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EPIDEMICS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIDS POLICY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); MALARIA (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); LITIGATION (67%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; RESEARCH; FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); WREN, CHRISTOPHER S 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); BRAZIL (79%); AFRICA (79%) UNITED STATES 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



673 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Air Fare Sale for Internet Buyers 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Delta Air Lines began offering discounts of up to 20 percent yesterday for round-trip tickets purchased over the Internet in an effort to spur summer and fall leisure travel spending at a time when corporate spending has fallen off sharply. 
 American and America West airlines announced similar savings shortly thereafter, matching Delta's attempt to drive traffic to its Web site and to encourage low-cost bookings. 
 Fares booked on airlines' Web sites are less expensive for carriers in that they do not have to pay distribution fees to the electronic reservation systems used by travel agents.
"They're saying, 'If you help us save, then we're going to help you save,' " said Sam Buttrick, an airline analyst at UBS Warburg. 
The online discounts came as Delta began an overall summer fare sale. However, aside from the potential savings from booking on the Web, Mr. Buttrick called the Delta rate cuts unremarkable. 
Consumers without Internet connections are eligible to take advantage of the savings through travel agents who offer special services through Delta's Web site. 
Delta, American and America West were among the many airlines that posted large losses in the first quarter after a slowdown in the economy prompted major companies to trim spending on business travel. 
Shares of Delta closed down $21.71, at $41.83. American's parent, the AMR Corporation, fell $1.12, to $33.24. Shares of the America West Holdings Corporation dipped 7 cents, to $9.03. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); TRAVEL TICKETS (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); AIR FARES (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC TICKETS (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); WEB SITES (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); HOLDING COMPANIES (70%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (93%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); AMR CORP (85%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (73%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: DELTA AIR LINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMERICA WEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (93%); DAL (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (93%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (93%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2001 



674 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES 

 BODY:
 CRUDE OIL FALLS. Crude oil fell after Russia said it would oppose tighter sanctions on Iraq, signaling Iraq may resume exports. In New York, crude oil for August delivery fell 27 cents, or 1 percent, to $26.98 a barrel.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FUTURES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAQ (91%); UNITED STATES (90%) RUSSIA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



675 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 37 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The euro rose on speculation that slowing inflation would allow the European Central Bank to lower interest rates in coming weeks. In New York, the euro settled at 86.34 cents, up from 85.95 cents on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since January 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); TRENDS (84%) CURRENCY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



676 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
Turning California On

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Those wimpy Californians, with all their fuzzy talk about conservation and their hostility to Big Energy, were supposed to spend this summer sweltering in the dark. But events are not following the script. Summer has begun, yet so far power supplies have been adequate -- and prices have been fairly reasonable. In fact, in the last few days wholesale electricity, which often sold for $750 per megawatt hour this time last year, has been going for less than $100, sometimes less than $50. 
 Everyone seems reluctant to talk about this good news, out of fear that saying anything optimistic would be a self-defeating prophecy. And it is still possible for things to go very wrong. Still, the contrast between dire expectations and the relatively benign picture so far demands an explanation. 
 One big reason for California's improved energy situation is conservation. Taking temperature into account, California consumers are using between 5 and 10 percent less electricity this summer than expected.
Another reason is a sharp drop in the price of natural gas, an important part of the cost of generating electricity. More on that in a minute.
The most important factor in the turnaround, however, is that the state's power plants are back on line. In March, with air-conditioners turned off, there should have been plenty of spare generating capacity. But around 15,000 megawatts, a third of the state's capacity, was mysteriously unavailable. Now the offline capacity is less than 4,000 megawatts. 
Why are the state's power plants operating again? More to the point, why weren't they operating back when the state was desperately short of power, and prices were much higher than they are now?
Many economists now accept the uncomfortable answer: Generators deliberately withheld electricity from the market in order to drive high prices even higher. Until recently the evidence for this market manipulation was purely circumstantial; but it has now been reinforced by direct testimony by former employees of one generator. 
So why did the market manipulation stop? Generators now sell much of their output under long-term contracts with the state, which reduces the incentive to drive up prices in the spot market. But the main answer is probably that intense public scrutiny, culminating in the recent decision by federal regulators to impose price caps, has convinced generators that they had better behave themselves. (The details of the price caps, it turns out, may be less important than the signal that the regulators are, finally, prepared to do some regulating.)
The natural gas story may be similar. Last year El Paso Natural Gas, which controls one of the crucial pipelines serving California, leased a big chunk of that pipeline's capacity to its own marketing subsidiary. That subsidiary has been widely accused of using its control of the pipeline to withhold gas from the California market, and thereby drive up prices. The company denies the accusation, and says that an internal document that talks about "ability to influence the physical market to the benefit of any financial/hedge position" wasn't saying what it seemed to be saying. But when the lease expired at the beginning of this month, gas prices in California promptly plunged 50 percent. 
And so, sooner than anyone expected, it seems that the worst may be over. A drought or a heat wave could still cause rolling blackouts. But time is on California's side; some new power plants will come on line in a few weeks, and many more over the course of the next 18 months. 
The big loser from all this -- for somebody always gets hurt even by good news -- is, of course, Dick Cheney, the architect of the Bush administration's drill-and-burn energy plan. Remember that Mr. Cheney sneeringly dismissed conservation as a mere "sign of personal virtue," and was scathing about people who thought price controls would help. Now things are suddenly looking up -- partly because of conservation, and partly because price controls and the threat of further government intervention have deterred energy producers from manipulating the market. 
It turns out, in other words, that Mr. Cheney -- who prides himself on his tough-mindedness -- was naively out of touch with reality. And the real realists were those silly people who thought that California could solve its crisis by saving energy and suing energy producers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); SPOT MARKET (77%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (72%); ELECTRICITY WHOLESALERS (71%); TESTIMONY (67%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (60%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER; GAS (FUEL) 

COMPANY: EL PASO NATURAL GAS CO (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (51%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (51%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



677 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Along With Signs of Growth, Words of Caution on Economy 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
Consumer confidence rose in June to the highest level this year, a private research firm said today, indicating that shoppers could keep the record economic expansion trudging along.
 The Conference Board's index increased to 117.9, the second consecutive increase, from a reading of 116.1 in May, which was greater than previously estimated. The June index is the highest since it was 128.6 in December. 
 Separate reports showed sales of new homes rose in May along with factory orders for durable goods. The data suggested that the economy might be on track to improve as Federal Reserve policy makers deliberate whether to make additional cuts in interest rates. Economists expect at least a quarter-percentage point cut when the Fed's policy-making Open Market Committee concludes its meeting on Wednesday.
"The economy should continue to expand at its current slow rate," said Lynn Franco, an economist at the Conference Board, based in New York. Growth slowed to a 1.4 percent annual rate from October to March, the slowest six-month period since 1991, when the economy was emerging from its last recession.
Orders for durable goods rose 2.9 percent last month, the Commerce Department reported today. The increase was unexpected and came after a 5.5 percent decline in April. Sales of new homes rose 0.8 percent in May, to 928,000 houses at an annual rate, the third increase in four months, the department said.
Economists say that signs of growth in today's data should be viewed cautiously. Consumer confidence was lifted by stock market gains that have since ebbed, they said. While factory demand increased in May for cars, aircraft and semiconductors, orders for all durable goods are still down 11.5 percent from May 2000.
Also, the confidence index showed declines in plans to buy expensive items, like cars, appliances and homes. The percentage of respondents planning to buy a car fell to 6.7 in June, the lowest since December 1997, from 9.5 in May.
Economists who determine whether the United States is in a recession have been on alert. The National Bureau of Economic Research said on May 15 that economic data "indicate the possibility that a recession began recently."
The bureau, based in Cambridge, Mass., repeated that statement on June 4 and June 18. Each time, the economists have said that the economy "has not declined nearly enough" to call a meeting of the committee that declares a recession.
Analysts had expected a reading of 114.5 in the confidence index after the 115.5 originally reported in May. Confidence is an important measure of economic health because it may translate into consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of all goods and services produced in the United States.
The June increase reflected greater optimism. A gauge of consumer expectations for the next six months rose to 93.2 in June, the highest since December, from 87.1.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "New-Home Sales"Annual rate in thousands of new private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeMay: +0.8%April: -4.5March: +0.5 Graph shows figures from December 2000-May 2001.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Durable Goods Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeMay: +2.9%April: -5.5March: +1.9 Graph shows figures from December 2000-May 2001.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Edging Up"The Conference Board's consumer confidence index rose for the second consecutive month, to 117.9 in June. Index, measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100. Graph shows figures from January 2000-June 2001.(Sources: The Conference Board, Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); DURABLE GOODS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); STATISTICS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); RECESSION (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); RETAIL SALES (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTEREST RATES (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; HOUSING 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



678 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Indexes Bounce Back From Sharp Decline Early in Day

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
The stock market climbed back from a sharp slide yesterday, with modest gains in the technology sector and modest losses elsewhere, as the Federal Reserve considered its next move on interest rates and investors wondered whether another rate cut would produce lasting results.
 A profit warning from Merrill Lynch, brought about by declining stock and bond trading activity, underscored an ambivalence that has been a drag on stock prices throughout the Fed's efforts to bolster the economy. Even an assortment of upbeat economic reports -- received with expectations that the Fed would cut interest rates by at least a quarter of a percentage point and maybe by a half-point -- did not distract investors from their concerns about corporate profits. 
 "The Fed's made all these cuts," said William D. Rutherford, the president of Rutherford Investment Management in Portland, Ore. But, he said, "without some encouraging news, the markets can't go up." 
"What they want is a C.E.O. to stand up and say things are going to get better."
On Jan. 3, the Fed made the first of five half-point rate reductions this year. While some of the cuts have touched off impressive one- and two-day rallies in stocks, the three leading market gauges are still below their marks of Jan. 2.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,472.48, after falling more than 100 points in the morning.
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index rose 13.75 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,064.62. But the broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.84 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,216.76.
The stock market was shaken early in the day after Merrill Lynch warned that a miserable quarter had only worsened in June, and analysts saw little hope for improvement during the summer. Merrill projected profits of 52 to 57 cents a share, below analysts' expectations of 82 cents a share. 
While mortgage refinancings have created business for some financial services firms that package and sell bundles of debt, Merrill's slow business highlighted a primary drag on the markets themselves.
Merrill's shares fell $7.54, or 11.4 percent, to $58.91. Other financial services companies, including the Dow components Citigroup, J. P. Morgan Chase and American Express, also declined.
Ahead of the Fed's decision on interest rates, which will be announced this afternoon, new reports provided evidence that the economy might not be as weak as some on Wall Street fear. The Conference Board's index of consumer confidence rose in June to its highest level since December. Orders for durable goods increased an unexpected 2.9 percent in May, the Commerce Department reported. And sales of new homes rose 0.8 percent in May.
Still, those reports failed to shake Wall Street's pessimism. "Has there been much of a change in the economy since they started cutting rates in January?" said John O'Donoghue, co-head of listed trading at Credit Suisse First Boston. "You're seeing earnings warnings and layoffs."
Despite all the cost-cutting, businesses have not held up their side of investors' equation for hope. Indeed, Xilinx, a maker of computer chips, warned of a revenue shortfall after the stock market closed yesterday. Shares of Xilinx -- which ended regular Nasdaq trading up 15 cents, at $43.86 -- fell $2.52, to $41.34, in after-hours trading.
"No one is even thinking about building inventories yet," said John C. Forelli, portfolio manager for Independence Investment L.L.C., an institutional money management firm based in Boston. "We're still seeing capital spending flat to going lower."
If the Fed satisfies the market's best hopes with a half-point cut today, he said, "that's about the only positive news we're going to see for the rest of the summer." --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
By Bloomberg News
Bond prices fell yesterday as evidence of consumer optimism suggested the Federal Reserve will stop lowering interest rates after this week.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 23/32 , to 98 11/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.22 percent from 5.12 percent on Monday.
The 30-year bond fell 28/32 , to 96 2/32 . Its yield rose to 5.65 percent from 5.59 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DURABLE GOODS (70%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



679 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate; 
Tight Retail Spaces Prompt Suit by the Disabled

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
Every inch of retail space is valuable in Manhattan. And few retailers seem to pack as much into that inch as the ever-growing Duane Reade chain.
 Now an advocacy group for the disabled is charging that the layout of many Duane Reade stores, particularly those with multiple levels and obstructed aisles, has effectively made them inaccessible. 
 In a lawsuit filed last month in federal court in Manhattan, the group, Disabled in Action of Metropolitan New York, demanded that Duane Reade eliminate all barriers in its stores to those with "mobility impairments." 
The lawsuit accuses the chain of violating the Americans with Disabilities Act and the city's human rights law.
Duane Reade Inc., whose headquarters are in Manhattan, has until mid-July to answer the complaint. Without commenting on the lawsuit, Jim Rizzo, the vice president for human resources, said, "As a retailer we want our stores to be accessible." 
The lawsuit highlights the tension between a commercial tenant's economic need to wring every penny in sales from high-priced real estate and its obligation to accommodate customers with wheelchairs, motorized scooters, walkers, crutches or braces.
A couple of multilevel Duane Reade stores have recently been renovated to a single level, and wheelchair lifts have been installed in some others, but not as an acknowledgment of a problem, Mr. Rizzo said. "If we can make the stores easier to shop, we'll do so," he said, "but that doesn't mean the store wasn't accessible before that."
The case points out the inherent difficulty of laying out a drugstore with the pharmacy at the farthest reaches, a common practice that frees space in the front for merchandise.
"Not to have access to the pharmacy is not just an inconvenience," said Nadina LaSpina, who teaches Italian language and literature at New School University, uses a wheelchair and is a plaintiff in the case. "If you need to buy medication, that's a necessity."
In the Duane Reade at Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street, the pharmacy is reached by escalator. At 51 West 51st Street, it is up a flight of stairs. Neither store has an elevator or lift, although signs are posted conspicuously in the 51st Street store saying, "If at any time you require assistance obtaining merchandise or services in this store, please see the cashier or any Duane Reade associate for their assistance."
Jean Meyers Ryan, a retired child psychologist who lives in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and gets around the city on a motorized scooter, said an intermediary was unsatisfactory in dealing with a pharmacist.
"There are things you need to discuss that are private," said Ms. Ryan, who is also a plaintiff. She noted that nonprescription medications were frequently placed beyond her reach. "I can't ask somebody else to figure out which is the cheapest container, which is the cheapest brand," she said.
Duane Reade was singled out for the lawsuit in part because of the frequency of complaints from disabled customers and in part because of its increasing domination of the market, said Dennis R. Boyd of New York Lawyers for the Public Interest, which, with Fish & Neave, represents Disabled in Action.
There were 172 Duane Reade stores as of December, 102 of them in high-traffic areas of Manhattan, according to the company's latest 10-K report to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Thirty-six stores were on two levels.
"We have demonstrated our ability to successfully operate stores using a wide variety of store configurations and sizes," the report said. "Flexibility in configuring stores provides us with a competitive advantage in securing locations for new stores, as many of our competitors target more standardized spaces."
In the Duane Reade at 155 East 34th Street, the selling floor is three steps up from the main entrance at Third Avenue. Nothing at the front door indicates that there is a step-free entrance about 75 feet away, which is locked in any case. ("Push button for handicap entry," a sign at the side entrance says. "Wait for assistance.")
Inside, there is a six-step ascent to the photo center and greeting-card department. The lift next to this stairway was blocked on Monday afternoon by a stack of detergent boxes and an unused display case.
"It's hard to pay the rents landlords want and utilize spaces to the highest efficiency without overstuffing them," said C. Bradley Mendelson, senior managing director in the retail group at the Insignia/ESG brokerage firm. Even so, he said, "Duane Reade, more than almost any other out there, tends to have stores that seem to be overstuffed."
Faith Hope Consolo, senior managing director of Garrick-Aug Associates Store Leasing, has a similar impression. "Some of these stores have cartons in the aisles in addition to everything that's packed on the shelves," she said. "These drugstores are more like grocery stores or supermarkets."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Duane Reade on West 51st Street lacks an elevator or a wheelchair lift. A note beside stairs to the pharmacy tells disabled to ask for help. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (93%); RETAILERS (91%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); WHEELCHAIRS & MOBILITY AIDS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); PHARMACIES (86%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (77%); PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (61%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HANDICAPPED; DRUGSTORES; DISCRIMINATION 

COMPANY: DUANE READE HOLDINGS INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: DUANE READE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (85%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (85%)

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



680 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Laguna Madre Journal; 
Welcome Mat's Out for Bombing in Scrub Country

BYLINE:  By ROSS E. MILLOY 

DATELINE: KINGSVILLE, Tex., June 26 

 BODY:
The rugged country south of here on the shores of Laguna Madre is an inhospitable tangle of mesquite chaparral and sand dunes with more cows than people.
 Just right for a bombing range, local officials say. 
 After the Bush administration announced last week that it would bow to protests and stop military bombing exercises on the Puerto Rican island of Vieques in 2003, officials here unveiled a proposal to move the maneuvers to a nearby area that would become an "expeditionary warfare training center."
The plan, which is backed by many of the region's business and political leaders, would create a training ground for bombing, ship-to-shore shelling and amphibious troop landings on 222,000 acres of privately owned ranchland just south of here in Kenedy County. It would attract jobs and other military missions to the area's three naval sites and insulate them from future cutbacks or base closings, said Dick Messbarger, director of the Kingsville Economic Development Council. 
But others in the area are far less welcoming. 
"I've got people ready to set their hair on fire over this," Mr. Messbarger admitted. 
Critics here assert, as they have in Vieques, that the warfare practices could threaten the health of residents, curb tourism and hurt the area's fishing industry.
Just north of the site, on Baffin Bay, where the state's record speckled trout was caught last year, a fishing guide, Dallas Furman, 36, said that a bombing range would put him and 250 other fishing guides in the area out of business.
"When they practice bombing, it will run the fish off for a month, and just about the time the fish are settling back in, they'll start bombing again," Mr. Furman said. "I get madder and madder every time I think about it."
Assaults by marines and armored vehicles along the 20 miles of coast would require amphibious crafts to plow over the barrier beaches of Padre Island National Seashore and then cut across the Intracoastal Canal and the ecologically sensitive Laguna Madre, an estuarial breeding ground of sea grasses. Those maneuvers could also require three 1.24-mile-wide corridors across Padre Island, home to the endangered Kemp's turtle.
"It would certainly add a whole new realm to the management of the island," said Ken McMullen, a spokesman at the National Seashore. "There would obviously be significant impacts on the environment and the 800,000 visitors we get here each year."
The amphibious craft could also stir up sediment in the tidal flats, destroy sensitive sea grasses and form "dead zones" in which no sea life could exist, Mr. McMullen said.
"In the event of a short-falling shell, the chemicals in explosives could be extremely destructive to marine life in the Laguna Madre," he said. "And that's before we get into things like accidental spillages of fuel or chemicals."
Navy officials have said that without Vieques, a new site is needed in the western Atlantic to train troops for joint military operations in the Mediterranean and Persian Gulf. Kenedy County, with 415 residents, offers many of the elements such a site requires: limited population, an area outside major air corridors, deep water ship access, and beaches suitable for practicing sea assaults.
"We've looked everywhere and found no place that would be a perfect one-for-one replacement for Vieques," said Lt. Cmdr. Cate Mueller, a Navy spokeswoman in Washington. "Now, we're looking at different combinations of places and training techniques, and there have been discussions about South Texas as an appropriate location."
Kenedy County is only one of several alternatives being considered, said Commander Mueller, who would not reveal the other locations.
A panel to select a replacement site for Vieques will soon be appointed by Gordon R. England, the secretary of the Navy, with its recommendations expected in October, she said.
"There will obviously be various studies and environmental impact statements required on whatever spot is ultimately selected," Commander Mueller said. "It's all very preliminary at this stage."
Mr. Messbarger, the economic development official, dismissed fears that the exercises would cause long-term environmental damage.
"These operations will only be for four or five days at a time every few months," he said, "and the military can mitigate or repair any damage that would be done." 
Besides, he said: "I'm just enough of a patriot to believe that I don't want my son or grandson getting their first experience with live fire in a combat situation. We're talking about the kind of training here that will save lives."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dick Messbarger, left, is among business and political leaders in Kingsville, Tex., who favor a bombing range on the shores of Laguna Madre. But Dallas Furman, a fishing guide, sees the plan as a threat to his livelihood. (Photographs by Greg Spaulding for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); BEACHES (89%); SPORT FISHING (87%); EXPLOSIVES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); FINFISH FISHING (70%); FISHES (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (70%); THREATENED & SENSITIVE SPECIES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TRENDS (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: MILLOY, ROSS E 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) PUERTO RICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) KINGSVILLE (TEX); PUERTO RICO; VIEQUES (PUERTO RICO); LAGUNA MADRE (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



681 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns; 
Victory Lap Takes Turn From Right

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY 

 BODY:
MONDAY afternoon, with the Republican primary election still a day away, Bret D. Schundler was already looking toward November. "I never believed it was my right to dictate to people," said Mr. Schundler, the candidate of New Jersey's rarely visible right wing.
 This was the gentler, general-election Bret Schundler, preparing to run as a conservative Republican in a staunchly moderate state. 
 Mr. Schundler has a knack for defying the natural laws of party politics. In 1992, he became the first Republican in 75 years to be elected mayor of Jersey City, a legendary machine shop of Democratic votes. A fluke, people said. Then he was re-elected twice. And yesterday he defeated the heavily favored choice of state Republican leaders to become the party's nominee for governor.
He had planned for years to build a victory by bringing together the party's pro-gun, anti-abortion and pro-school-choice forces, and his strategy caught the party's moderate leadership flat-footed. But those conservative positions were never really in play in Jersey City. 
When a caller to a television program this week said that some people in Jersey City were surprised to learn his position on gun control laws, Mr. Schundler said, "That's not an issue that a mayor has much involvement in."
And yesterday morning, while greeting voters at a train station here, he was asked about whether Jersey City's voters ever seemed to have strong feelings about his views on abortion. "Why would they care about the views of a mayor on that issue?" he asked.
But signature social issues like gun control and abortion are squarely in a governor's purview. For the first time in Mr. Schundler's unlikely career, he is likely to face sustained scrutiny of his most conservative positions..
This week, James E. McGreevey, the Democratic nominee who has been running against Trenton for years, began changing his message to attack Mr. Schundler. "Mayor Bret Schundler is an extremist and clearly out of the mainstream of New Jersey," he said after addressing a roomful of unionized Newark Housing Authority employees.
Voters who hate Trenton will love this campaign. "This campaign is about one inescapable fact: The need to change the way business is done in Trenton," Mr. McGreevey said in his acceptance speech last night. And Mr. Schundler won yesterday, in part, by denouncing the Trenton establishment led by his own party.
But the subplot of the campaign is likely to be a struggle over whether Mr. Schundler gets to define himself or whether Mr. McGreevey does it for him.
In his speech last night, Mr. Schundler reeled off a litany of issues he wants to deal with, from sprawl to urban schools, from taxes to tolls on the Garden State Parkway, to race. He didn't highlight the issues that rallied the far right. This was a message tailored to the mainstream.
"Bret has never run as a social conservative," said former Gov. Thomas H. Kean, the dean of moderate Republicanism in New Jersey. "If you listen to him as mayor of Jersey City, if you listen to his ads, it's basically an economic message."
But even Mr. Kean, who as of last night was supporting Mr. Schundler, has some of the same problems with his candidate as does Mr. McGreevey. "The gun issue is a concern, especially in North Jersey," Mr. Kean said. "We don't want people walking around carrying concealed weapons."
Mr. Schundler has said that in the unlikely event the Legislature passes a bill making it legal to carry a licensed, concealed weapon, he would sign it into law because "allowing people to defend themselves reduces crime."
On abortion, he acknowledges that the law of the land rests with the Supreme Court, but he said he thinks there is a consensus in New Jersey for outlawing late-term abortions.
YESTERDAY'S election was billed as a fight for the soul of the Republican Party. 
The general election is likely to be a fight for every cul de sac and town house development in New Jersey.
On Monday, Mr. Schundler's aides were considering various options for getting their man back on the road as soon as the primary was over. A bus tour was a favorite. Mr. McGreevey, not to be outgimmicked, announced he would take a three-week walking tour of New Jersey from High Point to Cape May.
This is shaping up as quite a summer on the political byways. Mr. Schundler will be running from the extremist label. Mr. McGreevey will be walking across the state. Travelers, beware. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ABORTION (73%); SCHOOL CHOICE (69%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (68%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (67%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (66%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (52%) ELECTIONS 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW; SCHUNDLER, BRET D (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



682 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
FEELING THE SLOWDOWN, OLIN WILL CUT ITS WORK FORCE 14%

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The Olin Corporation, a producer of metals, chemicals and ammunition, cut its full-year earnings forecast by half and will lay off more than 900 people, or 14 percent of its work force, citing a weak economy. 
Olin, based in Norwalk, Conn., lowered its 2001 earnings forecast to 50 cents a share from $1. Olin had been expected to earn 83 cents by analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial/First Call. Olin, which makes rolled metals and foils, chemicals used in papermaking and bleach, and Winchester brand bullets, said it was making the cuts because it did not expect economic conditions to improve this year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR FORCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ALKALIS MFG (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CHLORINE (86%); PAPER MILLS (86%) FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: OLIN CORP (96%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: OLIN CORP 

TICKER: OLN (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332992 SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS331420 COPPER ROLLING, DRAWING, EXTRUDING & ALLOYING (96%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%) SIC2812 ALKALIES & CHLORINE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



683 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Fighting for Dominance on a Stretch of 42nd Street 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
A 30-year-old tug of war on West 42nd Street has flared up again, pitting two old New York real estate families -- one quite wealthy and the other much less so -- against each other. Millions of dollars are at stake on this grimy piece of 42nd Street west of Avenue of the Americas.
 The Maidman family, once a powerhouse on the West Side of Manhattan, recently announced plans to transform their narrow, 22-story brick tower on the north side of 42nd Street, largely vacant since the 1970's, into a luxurious 27-unit condominium hotel. They have enlisted designing help from a distant relative, Isaac Mizrahi, the former fashion designer. 
 But the Durst family, which owns 90 percent of the block, including buildings on both sides of the Maidman tower, say that the idea is farfetched and that it would cost more to rehabilitate the tower than the Maidmans could ever hope to reap.
The Dursts contend that it is yet another transparent attempt by the Maidmans to try to increase the value of their dilapidated property in the event of condemnation by the state or of a sale to the Dursts. The Maidmans, who have resisted the Dursts' efforts to redevelop the block, are known in real estate circles as holdouts.
So the Dursts say they plan to take the tower away from the Maidmans. Last month, a chunk of concrete fell from the top of the Maidmans' building and plunged through the roof of an adjoining single-story building owned by the Dursts. The city evacuated the Durst building and cited the Maidmans for a series of violations.
"Mr. Maidman's building is falling onto our adjoining property and has caused us considerable damage," said Douglas Durst, who heads the family's company, the Durst Organization, which owns 10 Midtown skyscrapers. "We expect to be filing suit for values far in excess of whatever his property might be worth and therefore expect to own it in the very near future."
The Maidman-Durst dust-up is only the latest tale to emerge on the embattled block since Douglas Durst's father, Seymour, bought his first parcel there in 1967. And it is only the latest illustration of the pitfalls a developer can encounter in New York, where there is little vacant land and every property owner and tenant wants to hold out for the biggest pot of gold before selling.
The Durst Organization built the 1.6 million-square-foot office tower, 4 Times Square, at the west end of the block. The family wants to build a $1 billion, two-million-square-foot tower at the east end, if only the three remaining property owners will cooperate.
Mr. Durst says he believes that all that stands between his family and their long-sought skyscraper are the Maidmans and another family, the Bernsteins. He says he expects ultimately to strike a deal with the Rosenberg family, which owns the last parcel on the block.
A group led by Joseph Bernstein owns an L-shaped parcel that fronts on both 42nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas. In 1985, Mr. Bernstein nearly bought out the Dursts, but the deal fell apart when he became embroiled in a scandal over his role in secretly buying New York real estate for Ferdinand Marcos, the former Philippine dictator
Since then, Mr. Durst has sought to buy the Bernstein group's interests, but the sides failed to agree when Mr. Bernstein insisted on becoming a partner in any new development.
In 1999, the Dursts erected a large billboard on the block announcing the coming of 1 Bryant Park, a two-million-square-foot tower, a move the Bernsteins said was intended to scare potential tenants away.
More recently, Mr. Bernstein's group sued the Durst Organization and New York State, saying that the state was wrongfully conspiring to condemn the Bernstein properties, enabling Mr. Durst to benefit. At Mr. Durst's behest, the state has agreed to study the possibility of condemnation, but has taken little action so far.
The Maidmans, however, did not join Mr. Bernstein's lawsuit. Rather than trying to foil Mr. Durst's plans, Mitchel Maidman, whose grandfather bought the building in 1953, says he thinks the time is right to develop the property as a luxury residence. He hired H. Thomas O'Hara, an architect, and Mr. Mizrahi to transform the slim building, which offers unimpeded views of both the East and Hudson Rivers. Interior demolition has begun and the Maidmans say they have already spent $750,000 on the project.
"Mr. Durst has not made any offers for the property in years," said Mr. Maidman, whose family now owns about two dozen small properties in Manhattan. "We've always wanted to develop that building. We were just waiting for the right opportunity. This'll be a super luxury condo building."
As for falling debris and other building violations, Mr. Maidman said they would be taken care of during renovation.
"We understand a brick fell," Mr. Maidman said. "But we're not sure where it fell from."
The Buildings Department has cited the Maidmans for failing to maintain their building, where an arch is pulling away from the structure and the brick chimney and terra cotta ornaments are in danger of collapse. Responding to a complaint by Mr. Durst, the department also cited the Maidmans for failing to obtain a permit to erect scaffolding.
One additional benefit of his project, Mr. Maidman pointed out in a news release, was that his sole, longtime tenant, an adult video operation called Fun City Video, would close this summer. In a nod to Mayor Giuliani's anti-pornography campaign and a zinger for Mr. Durst, the release points out that the only remaining adult bookstore on 42nd Street east of Times Square is in a building controlled by the Dursts.
(Mr. Durst, in turn, said that the bookstore's lease had been canceled.)
Relations between the Dursts and the Maidmans were not always so hostile. In the early 1970's, Seymour Durst negotiated an option to buy the Maidman building, but the deal collapsed after a related real estate deal unraveled and a recession hit. The Dursts tried again in the 1980's and 1990's, but the two sides were millions of dollars apart on price.
Three years ago, the Dursts opposed the Maidmans' attempt to obtain a zoning variance to put up a billboard the size of a basketball court on the west side of the Maidman building, which faces the Dursts' new 48-story skyscraper, 4 Times Square. The Maidmans then argued that the billboard should be allowed because the building had little other value.
Late one Friday night, the two sides struck a deal: the Dursts would support the Maidmans' request for a billboard and share the revenue; the Maidmans would give the Dursts an option to buy the property. But that proved to be a momentary lull; the Maidmans tore up the contract the following Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory L. Maidman, left, and Mitchel A. Maidman in front of their building at 113 West 42nd Street, which they hope to turn into a hotel. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. B10) Map of Manhattan highlights 42nd Street area: A hotly disputed stretch of real estate on West 42nd Street. (pg. B10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); FAMILY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (71%); FASHION DESIGNERS (69%); FASHION DESIGN (69%); FASHION & APPAREL (69%); LITIGATION (63%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; HOTELS AND MOTELS; REAL ESTATE; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; DURST, DOUGLAS; MAIDMAN, GREGORY L; MAIDMAN, MITCHEL A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE AND 42ND STREET (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



684 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Workplace; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: TRENDS; 
With Jobs Plentiful, Latest Immigrants Have Found It Easier to Fit In

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN 

 BODY:
Illegal immigrants got most of the headlines in the 1990's, but they were only a small percentage of the immigration wave that poured into the country over that decade. In fact, recent census figures confirmed what many people already knew -- legal immigrants have become the biggest source of growth in the population and, not surprisingly, in the labor force. 
 Years ago, many Americans viewed new arrivals as threats to their job security. This time, though, few had much to worry about; the Internet-fueled economic boom lowered the jobless rate to the current rate of 4.4 percent from 7.8 percent in June 1992, and even created widespread labor shortages. As a result, immigrants often provided a vital source of labor, according to John Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban Research at City University. Nowhere was this more true than in New York State, where they filled the void created by people leaving for opportunities elsewhere. 
 If anybody suffered, it was those struggling the most to make ends meet, said Steven Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies. The latest immigrants were "less educated relative to natives than previous immigrants," he said, so they competed for the lowest-paying jobs. He said that drove down wages for people at the bottom of the economic ladder by 7 percent in real terms over the decade. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts Graph shows the SHARE OF POPULATION GROWTH FROM LEGAL IMMIGRATION (Five-year moving average) from 1955-2000. Graph shows LEGAL IMMIGRANTS ENTERING THE LABOR FORCE from 1955-2000. CHANGE IN NUMBER OF LEGAL IMMIGRANTS IN THE LABOR FORCE AND TOTAL CHANGE IN THE LABOR FORCE FOR SELECTED STATES IN THE 1990'S Biggest immigrant increases: CaliforniaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): +1,053Overall change in labor force (thousands): +1,404 Biggest immigrant increases: TexasChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): + 484Overall change in labor force (thousands): +1,603 Biggest immigrant increases: FloridaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): + 481Overall change in labor force (thousands): + 893 Biggest immigrant increases: New YorkChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): + 425Overall change in labor force (thousands): + 39 Biggest immigrant increases: ArizonaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): + 261Overall change in labor force (thousands): + 559 Biggest immigrant declines: MassachusettsChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): -60Overall change in labor force (thousands): +56 Biggest immigrant declines: ConnecticutChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): -27Overall change in labor force (thousands): -124 Biggest immigrant declines: D.C.Change in immigrants in labor force (thousands): -8Overall change in labor force (thousands): -5 Biggest immigrant declines: MontanaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): -3Overall change in labor force (thousands): +73 Biggest immigrant declines: North DakotaChange in immigrants in labor force (thousands): -3Overall change in labor force (thousands): +19 (Sources: Census Bureau; Economy.com)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); TRENDS (90%); CENSUS (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (79%); LABOR FORCE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); REFUGEES (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (71%); CITIES (68%) LABOR; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



685 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel; 
As the number of corporate guests drops, many top-rated hotels offer discounts.

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

DATELINE: CAREFREE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
GRANTED, it was 105 degrees by 1 p.m. Golfers were straggling off the startlingly green fairways laid alongside huge high-desert rocks. Even the people in the pool looked wilted.
 On the other hand, I was in a hotel, the Boulders, that often turns up on lists of the top domestic resorts. The price: $149 a night (plus a $22 service charge) for a 550-square-foot room. And it was just as hot in downtown Phoenix, an easy 45-minute drive away, where the convention-style Hyatt Regency was charging $139 a night during a recent conference based there. 
 Actually, I'm not wild about self-conscious resort hotels like the Boulders, with hyper-eager young employees who always seem to be murmuring earnestly into Secret Service-like lapel microphones. But the $149 rate seemed persuasive. At the Boulders, the usual summer rate is $195 (plus the $22 service charge) for a room that goes for about $650 in high season. This summer, the same room is going for $119 (plus that $22) in a new group-rate promotion.
Across the board, and for the first time in recent memory, many top-shelf hotels are having rate sales, partly as a way to fill rooms left empty by the sharp and sudden retreat of corporate clients, and partly in hopes of stimulating extra summer leisure travel as a potential catalyst for a hoped-for resumption of robust travel this fall or winter.
The National Business Travel Association predicted last week that business travel currently accounting for more than $185 billion in spending by domestic companies would double within five years. But right now, it's in the dumps. Hotels are having their worst time in 10 years. And domestic airlines, having their worst slump in 25 years because of the decline in business travel that started in January and accelerated in the spring, are so desperate to scratch up some revenue that the five biggest ones are all promoting special summer-travel sales this week, with some even discounting holiday travel like the July 4 weekend.
Even in tough times, hotels generally resist discounts. In fact, domestic hotels actually raised rates sharply, by about 7 percent, during the first quarter, according to American Express.
But now, discounts are blossoming even at some of the highest-level hotels, where managers are usually loath to cut rates because customers might still expect discounts when good times return.
"Major luxury hotels have started slashing rates in some cities and resort areas for summer travel," said Thom Nulty, the president of Navigant International, the travel management company. This occurred despite "a long-held belief" in the hotel industry "that the top end of the market was somewhat insulated from recession," he said.
Hotel stocks were banged up after analysts slashed earnings forecasts earlier this month. So it would seem that luxury hotel owners should be wailing in anguish. Some may well be doing that privately, but there is an interesting sidebar to the trend in which corporate travelers by the millions are either staying home more or staying at cheaper places.
According to hotel industry executives, many top executives -- the big cheeses who don't necessarily have to do what the corporate travel department decrees for everybody else -- are still insisting on traveling high on the hog.
"In our hotels, which are the definitive luxury hotels in the world," room rentals "are almost as good as last year -- and last year was a record year," said Paul M. McManus, the president and chief executive of Leading Hotels of the World Ltd., a company that operates a marketing network for 360 of the world's top luxury hotels. 
The rates for rooms booked by Leading Hotels remain higher now than they were last year, he said. In New York and other domestic cities and in Europe, rates are typically between $450 and $550 a night at these hotels, but can range well into the thousands of dollars for suites.
Member hotels in New York City include the Lowell, the Pierre, the Peninsula and the Plaza Athenee. In New York, overall occupancy rates are down about 8 percent this month. But "we're not seeing that in most of our hotels," even though "business travel is the primary market," said Marshall A. Calder, a senior vice president in the company. "If you take the Lowell, where the average rate is probably around $650, 60 percent or more of their business is repeat business. It's C.E.O.'s, entertainment executives, bankers. They go to the Lowell time after time, and they're certainly not going to downgrade and go to a lower-level hotel."
These customers, who "don't perceive themselves as being affected by the temporary economic woes," Mr. McManus added, "try and cooperate with the corporate travel directives." Still, he said, "the address they stay at in a certain city is very important in their communication with who they're doing business with; based on that, they stay where they want to stay." Luxury demand driven by top-executive travel is even stronger in European cities, Mr. Calder added.
The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, which manages 39 luxury hotels and is building 20 more in the United States and abroad, also said that demand remained robust among its top-level corporate customers, though Vivian A. Deuschl, the vice president for public relations at the company, called the overall drop in business travel "significant."
She cited "continued strength" in demand for Ritz Carlton hotel rooms on business-club and concierge floors, however. "Customers at the upper tier want service and will pay for it," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); GOLF (90%); RESORTS (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (89%); LODGING (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); DESERTS (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); AIRLINES (62%) HOTELS AND MOTELS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

TICKER: H (NYSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (90%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (78%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



686 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
AETHER, CITING FLAT SALES, TO LAY OFF 11% OF ITS WORKERS

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Aether Systems, a developer of software and services for wireless Internet access, will lay off 150 employees, or 11 percent of its work force, to trim expenses. The company said it expected sales to remain flat for the rest of the year. Aether will reduce annual costs by as much as $78 million, with the job cuts accounting for almost half of that, a spokesman, Greg Abel, said. Revenue is being hurt because of slowing economic growth. Aether is based in Owings Mills, Md.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); LABOR FORCE (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (88%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (88%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (88%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (88%); SALES PROJECTIONS (87%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (86%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (84%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: AETHER SYSTEMS INC 

INDUSTRY:  SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



687 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 260 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Biggest Spenders For Ads Are Listed

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
Spending leaders for the first quarter of 2001 in large advertising categories like automobiles, financial services and drugs are being identified by CMR in New York, formerly Competitive Media Reporting, a unit of Taylor Nelson Sofres. Overall ad spending for the first quarter declined 5.2 percent from the period a year earlier, according to CMR. 
 General Motors was the leading auto advertiser, spending $479.6 million in the first quarter, down 25.8 percent from $646.8 million in the first quarter of 2000. 
 The automobile brand with the largest ad spending was Chrysler, from the Chrysler Group unit of DaimlerChrysler, at $40.4 million, up 99 percent from $20.3 million. The Dodge Caravan minivan from Chrysler was a close second with $40.2 million, up 17.2 percent from $34.3 million.
The financial services marketer with the largest ad spending was Citigroup, spending $75.8 million, up 162 percent from $28.9 million.
The financial brand with the highest ad spending was the Discover Card credit card, part of Discover Financial Services, a unit of Morgan Stanley, which spent $34.9 million, up 13.7 percent from $30.7 million.
GlaxoSmithKline was the leading pharmaceutical company in ad spending in the first quarter, spending $193.3 million, down less than 1 percent from $194.5 million. Johnson & Johnson was second, at $114.3 million, up less than 1 percent from $113.4 million.
And the pharmaceutical brand with the highest ad spending was Singulair, an anti-asthma drug sold by Merck & Company, at $31.9 million, up 25.6 percent from $25.4 million.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BRANDING (78%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); ASTHMA (64%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); MERCK & CO INC (84%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CMR (CO) 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (84%); MRK (NYSE) (84%); JNJ (NYSE) (67%); GSK (NYSE) (58%); GSK (LSE) (58%); BIOC (EGX) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); DFS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (55%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



688 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: France: Consultant's Forecast 

BYLINE:  By John Tagliabue (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The big European consulting and computer services group, Cap Gemini of France, lowered its revenue forecast for this year and said it would cut 2,700 jobs, mainly in the United States, Britain and Scandinavia, as weaker economies on both sides of the Atlantic cause demand for its services to slow. Cap Gemini, which last year acquired the consulting business of Ernst & Young, predicted revenue for the full year of 9 billion euros ($7.7 billion), against an earlier forecast 9.6 billion euros. 
Geoff Unwin, the chief executive of Cap Gemini, said the group's operating margin would drop to about 7 percent this year, from 10.5 percent last year. Cap Gemini's share price dropped by as much as 24 percent to its lowest level since early 1998. John Tagliabue (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Graph shows Cap Gemini share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (53%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CAPGEMINI SA (90%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CAP GEMINI SA 

TICKER: CAP (PAR) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (90%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%) SIC6719 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES; SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



689 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Nasdaq Rises and Dow Falls As Investors Await Rate Cut
As investors awaited today's announcement from the Federal Reserve about a cut in interest rates, technology stocks made modest gains while others posted slight losses.
 The Nasdaq composite index rose 13.75 points, or 0.7 percent, to 2,064.62. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 31.74 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,472.48, after falling more than 100 points in the morning. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 1.84 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,216,76. Page C10. 

Consumer Confidence Up in June
Consumer confidence rose in June to the highest level this year, the Conference Board said, indicating that shoppers could keep the record economic expansion trudging along. The Conference Board's index increased to 117.9 from 116.1 in May. Separate reports showed sales of new homes rose in May along with factory orders for durable goods, while the prices of new homes fell 0.5 percent. C2.

Bear Stearns Chairman Steps Down
Bear Stearns announced that its chairman, Alan C. Greenberg, was stepping down. James E. Cayne, the company's chief executive, will add the title of chairman. C2.

Patent Cited as Microsoft Challenge
Intertrust Technologies, a small developer of software for protecting digital information, received a patent that it said would challenge Microsoft's strategy for linking its next generation operating system to Internet services and content like digital music. C4.

Palm and 3Com Report Losses
Palm, the biggest maker of hand-held computers, and 3Com, the computer networking equipment manufacturer, posted losses. C4.

Europe Rethinks E-Business Stance
Officials at the European Commission say they are considering abandoning a long-held position on Internet commerce that the laws in the country where a consumer is situated should govern. World Business, Section W.

Executive Coaches Bridge Gaps
Executive coaching evolved into a specialty in the United States more than a decade ago, but it did not make much headway in Australia until the mid-1990's. Since then, the practice has taken off. Management. C6.

Radio Days and Reality TV
John de Mol, chief executive of Endemol Entertainment, said his father, who was a popular singer in Holland, wanted him to study law or another profession. Instead, he said: "I wanted to be in radio. So I never went to college. I went to work on a pirate station that broadcast rock music from a ship in the North Sea." The experience gave him a kernel of an idea for the reality television programs he later created. "I'd spend two weeks on board sometimes with 10 radio people and 10 crew. Relations were pretty intense," he recalled. "You can imagine 20 people living together. It was a lot like 'Big Brother,' the reality television program I created." The Boss. C6.

ABC News Pulls Children Interviews
ABC News has removed an interview with schoolchildren from a special on the environment after parents complained of being misled about the nature of the questioning when they allowed their children to take part. C9.

House Passes Farm Aid Package
The House passed an emergency aid package of $5.5 billion for farmers, most of whom already receive federal subsidies. A20.

The two largest farm worker unions sued the Labor Department last week, accusing it of illegally failing to raise wages for more than 30,000 foreign guest workers. A15.

Top-Line Hotels Are Cutting Rates
Many top-shelf hotels are having rate sales, partly as a way to fill rooms left empty by the retreat of corporate clients and partly in hopes of stimulating extra summer leisure travel. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,472.48 down 31.74Nasdaq composite -- 2,064.62 up 13.7510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.22% up 0.10The euro -- $0.8634 up 0.0039The dollar -- 123.76 down 0.04 Graph shows new-home prices since last December.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (87%); EXECUTIVES (87%); MUSIC (86%); INTEREST RATES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (69%); POP & ROCK (69%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (69%); HOME PRICES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (65%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (58%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: JIMMY CAYNE (58%); JAMES E CAYNE (51%); JOHN DE MOL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (68%); NORTH SEA (51%) EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



690 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 428 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Losses Posted For Quarter By Palm Inc. And 3Com

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif., June 26 

 BODY:
Reflecting the pervasive nature of the high-technology sector's continuing slump, the biggest maker of hand-held computers and a top computer networking equipment manufacturer reported losses today.
 Palm Inc. said it had a fiscal fourth-quarter loss as sales fell nearly 53 percent, partly because the introduction of a new device, the m500, was delayed by a defect. 
 The loss was $392 million, or 69 cents a share, in the quarter ended June 1, in contrast to net income of $12.4 million, or 2 cents, in the quarter a year earlier. Sales fell to $165.3 million from $350.2 million. 
In its fourth quarter, the 3Com Corporation's loss grew to $517.7 million as revenue fell 39 percent.
The network equipment maker's loss widened to $1.52 a share from $146.8 million, or 42 cents, a year earlier, 3Com said in a statement. Revenue dropped nearly 39 percent in the period ended June 1, to $468 million from $763.7 million. Excluding reorganization charges and the amortization and write-down of intangible items, the loss would have been $206.3 million, or 61 cents a share, 3Com said.
Palm lowered its fourth-quarter sales forecast twice, as a technical defect delayed the m500. It said customers waited for the new device instead of buying older models.
Excluding amortization of good will, a charge for excess inventory and other costs, Palm said its loss would have been 16 cents a share. On that basis, it had been expected to lose 19 cents, according to analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call.
Palm shares rose as much as 18 percent, to $6.12, in after-hours trading, after falling 4 cents, to $5.19, in regular trading.
Palm's operating loss, which excludes amortization of good will and other costs, will be $60 million to $80 million in the first quarter, said Judy Bruner, Palm's chief financial officer. In the second quarter, she expects operating profit of $5 million to $20 million.
At 3Com, the chief executive, Bruce Claflin, plans to eliminate 4,370 jobs, or 37 percent of the work force, and trim product lines this year to try to turn a profit in 2002. 3Com, also based in Santa Clara, has suffered from the United States economic slump and a decline in spending by phone and Internet companies, investors say.
The company's shares fell 19 cents, to $4.84, and were down another 16 cents, to $4.72, in after-hours trading after the report. They had declined 43 percent this year.
Investors and analysts say the company's $1.64 billion in cash and short-term investments will help it survive, though it is unclear when sales growth will recover. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (92%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (87%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: PALM INC (96%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (94%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (66%)

ORGANIZATION: PALM INC; THREECOM CORP (3COM CORP) 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



691 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Ending Corporate Welfare 

 BODY:
In his April budget proposals, President Bush indicated his intent to follow through on a campaign pledge to end many of the federal subsidies to business known collectively as corporate welfare. Now, with opposition mounting to his plan to end loan guarantees for risky commercial shipbuilders, Mr. Bush faces the first test of his resolve. Given his longstanding ties to corporate America and an otherwise overwhelmingly pro-business agenda, the president is well positioned to cut such subsidies without appreciable damage to his political base. In the case of the shipbuilders' loan guarantees, Mr. Bush also has the logic of national security and economics on his side. These are reasons enough to stand up to the members of Congress who want the subsidy. 
 There is virtually no justification for the subsidies apart from pork-barrel politics. The absence of a commercial shipbuilding industry would hardly threaten national security, since the country is unlikely to go to war with all three of the world's big builders -- Europe, Japan and South Korea -- at the same time. The alacrity with which the industry was revived by the loan guarantees, which began in 1993, also suggests that shipbuilding could be quickly rejuvenated in the event of an emergency grave enough to require wartime mobilization. And since military fighting ships are vastly different in design from commercial passenger vessels, enhanced production of the latter might not be the best course to military readiness. 
 Like many corporate welfare programs, the loan guarantees also fail the economic test. Without the national security argument to lean on, it is hard to justify a claim that the United States underproduces commercial ships. Costs of production here are roughly twice as high as abroad, and American competition certainly has not driven down world prices, which would have benefited domestic buyers. Any benefits to employment in poor urban areas, such as Pascagoula, Miss., could be generated more directly by enterprise grants or other targeted programs.
Mr. Bush's attempts to cut corporate welfare will undoubtedly cost him some political capital in Congress, at a time when he can ill afford to lose it. In the case of the shipbuilders' loan guarantees alone, 38 senators, led by Mississippi's Trent Lott (whose wife is from Pascagoula), have signed a letter asking not only that the program be spared but that its funding be tripled this year. But the damage is unlikely to be permanent, and in any case Mr. Bush could use these cuts to mend ties with John McCain, a perennial anti-pork crusader, and to win over conservative opponents of big government. Most important, Mr. Bush could gain back some of the electorate's faith by keeping a popular promise. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING (92%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%) SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; EDITORIALS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TRENT LOTT (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



692 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: South African Links AIDS To Broader Issue of Poverty 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa skipped the United Nations conference on AIDS in New York today to come to the White House, where President Bush, in the gentlest of encounters, helped him deflect accusations that his government has all but neglected the AIDS epidemic.
 Mr. Mbeki, whose country has been hit harder by AIDS than any other nation, said during a brief photo opportunity in the Oval Office, "People must look at what we're doing in South Africa, not their perception of what they think we're doing." 
 Responding to the many critics who have said he has done little in the area of prevention or treatment, Mr. Mbeki said: "I don't think, on the basis of facts, that an accusation like that can be sustained. It cannot." 
Yet Mr. Mbeki, who has expressed outright skepticism that H.I.V. causes the disease, did not attend the AIDS conference, where he was bound to have faced extraordinary criticism.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell addressed the conference on Monday and promised additional assistance, beyond the $200 million that Mr. Bush has already promised as seed money for a multibillion-dollar AIDS fund, but he did not say how much the administration was willing to commit.
It was unclear why the Bush administration was giving Mr. Mbeki an easy alternative to appearing at the conference, and administration officials said little about that. Instead, today both Mr. Mbeki and Mr. Bush endorsed the establishment of the fund, but they offered no specifics of how they might increase its size.
"The AIDS pandemic in Africa is terrible," Mr. Bush said. "The president is concerned, as am I."
Mr. Mbeki repeated his oft-stated position that AIDS is one of a number of related problems and diseases that must be handled with a comprehensive policy. "In many instances, these are diseases which are not only caused by poverty, some of them, but also cause poverty." 
Mr. Mbeki left the White House after lunch with Mr. Bush, without speaking to reporters. 
While AIDS and Mr. Mbeki's theories about its causes overshadowed the meeting, the White House said it was only one of many subjects discussed. 
The men spent a considerable amount of time talking about President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, whose iron rule and widespread human rights abuses were condemned last month by Secretary Powell during his trip to Africa. Secretary Powell accused Mr. Mugabe of clinging to power and called for free elections in the country.
But today Mr. Bush and Mr. Mbeki were far more restrained. A senior administration official, briefing reporters this afternoon, said that although the two leaders recognized the problem with Zimbabwe, they did not spend a lot of time "talking and criticizing."
"They spent much more time on: how do we solve this problem?" the official said. "How do we deal with the issue of promotion of rule of law, democracy, getting beyond this land issue in Zimbabwe?" 
But again, he declined to provide any specifics.
The two also spent some time discussing global trade, a key issue for Mr. Mbeki, who has made growth through trade and debt relief a cornerstone of his presidency. But the meeting came at a politically difficult time for the 59-year old leader. His approval ratings have dropped dramatically, and even his core supporters, who praised him effusively after he took over from Nelson Mandela, now regard him as remote and aloof. His views on AIDS have only reinforced that view.
Last year his government scrambled to explain how $6.2 million of the country's $17 million AIDS budget went unspent. They said the money would be rolled over into this year's budget. 
That followed Mr. Mbeki's personal quest to determine the true cause of AIDS, which led him to consult some medical sources who doubt the consensus theory that H.I.V. infection leads to the devastating syndrome. His government decided against distributing the standard anti-AIDS drug, AZT, to public hospitals.
Mr. Mbeki also wrote a lengthy, peculiar letter to President Bill Clinton last year, arguing that South Africa had to chart its own course in fighting AIDS. He said there was a "campaign of intellectual intimidation and terrorism" akin to "medieval book-burning" to keep alternate theories about the causes of the disease from being heard. 
But South African clerics, labor unions, the Communist Party and even Mr. Mandela, who was Mr. Mbeki's mentor, all argued that the scientific consensus on AIDS should be followed. 
Mr. Bush used an event in the Rose Garden several weeks ago to declare that the United States would commit $200 million to a global fund being set up by the United Nations. Many AIDS groups said that was a pittance from the world's largest economy, and did not set a high enough contribution level for other developed countries. Mr. Bush responded that it was a start, and said that further contributions would be forthcoming.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa and President Bush at the White House yesterday. In addition to AIDS, the two leaders discussed global trade and the political situation in central and southern Africa. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); THABO MBEKI (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); MBEKI, THABO (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); AFRICA (93%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



693 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: PATIENTS' RIGHTS PICK UP MOMENTUM IN 2 SENATE VOTES 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26 

 BODY:
Senate Democrats won two significant victories today as the Senate rejected Republican challenges to provisions of a Democratic bill to define patients' rights for more than 180 million Americans.
 The back-to-back votes, combined with a similar vote last week, created a sense that the bill was gaining momentum, after being tied up in a partisan impasse for nearly five years. 
 The new Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle, Democrat of South Dakota, said today, "We have been very, very pleased overall with the victories that we've enjoyed so far."
By a vote of 57 to 43, the Senate rejected a Republican proposal to provide employers with complete immunity against lawsuits by employees who challenge the denial of their claims for health benefits. Republicans said the risk of such lawsuits would prompt employers to stop offering coverage, but Democrats said employers should be liable when they directly participate in decisions that harm patients. The other victory for Democrats came in a 61-to-39 vote that defeated a measure to pull the bill from the floor. 
President Bush threatened last week to veto the Senate Democrats' bill. And House Republican leaders today unveiled an alternative that was considered acceptable to the White House.
Asked about today's votes, Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chief Republican sponsor of the Democrats' bill, said they "continue the momentum we have, but there are still tough issues remaining."
The bill, a far cry from Democratic efforts in 1993-94 to guarantee health insurance for all Americans, would define a wide range of rights for people who have coverage. The measure would, for example, guarantee patients access to emergency care, medical specialists, clinical trials of new drugs and an independent medical review of decisions denying care.
The bill would make it easier for injured patients to sue health maintenance organizations and other health plans for the denial of promised benefits. Employers could also be sued if they directly participated in decisions to deny care to a patient.
Supporters of the bill claimed a significant political victory today, saying that it would improve the ability of covered patients to get quality health care. But the bill would not guarantee coverage for any of the 43 million people who lack health insurance. And opponents said that the rejection today of the proposed limit on employer liability meant that the bill would unleash a torrent of litigation.
Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant Republican leader, said: "Employers beware. You are going to be sued. Under this bill, there is no limit on economic damages, no limit on damages for pain and suffering in federal or state court."
But Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, an architect of the legislation, denounced the proposal to give employers full immunity. With such sweeping protection, he said, "there would be no end to the irresponsible behavior of some unscrupulous employers, who could deny necessary medical treatment any time it became too costly or inconvenient." And backers of the bill said there has not been an explosion of lawsuits in states that have adopted similar legislation.
Employers are not required to offer or provide any health benefits to employees, but many voluntarily do so, through a variety of arrangements. Sponsors of the Senate bill said they did not know how many employers might be exposed to lawsuits. Most employers would not incur risk because they hire insurance companies or other entities to manage health benefits for their employees, and the employers do not rule on individual claims, Democrats said.
But Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, said that plaintiffs' lawyers would name employers as co-defendants in lawsuits filed against H.M.O.'s and other health plans. Mr. Gramm said the bill would provide employers with a legal defense, but not with complete immunity, so employers would have to hire lawyers and defend themselves in court. The cost of such litigation would increase the cost of health insurance for employers and employees alike, Mr. Gramm said.
The action on employer liability came after the Senate rejected a Republican motion to pull the bill off the floor so it could be reviewed.
Last Thursday, by a vote of 52 to 45, the Senate killed a Republican amendment that would have increased the tax deduction for health insurance costs of the self-employed.
Democrats announced that the patients' rights bill would be the first order of business after they took control of the Senate this month.
The House Republican bill unveiled today would give patients a more limited right to sue and is closer to what Mr. Bush wants. When he threatened last week to veto the Senate Democrats' bill, Mr. Bush said it could lead to explosive growth in lawsuits and an increase in insurance premiums, prompting many employers to drop coverage.
J. Dennis Hastert, the speaker, said the House Republican bill was "the only one with a real chance of being signed into law by the president." White House officials endorsed the measure.
Under the House Republican bill, a patient could sue a health maintenance organization in state court if the patient was injured because the H.M.O. refused to provide care ordered by an independent medical reviewer. Damages would be subject to any limits set by state law.
Alternatively, patients could sue in federal court. Damages for pain and suffering would be limited to $500,000, and no punitive damages would be allowed.
Senators Olympia J. Snowe of Maine and Mike DeWine of Ohio, both Republicans, are working with Democrats on an amendment to limit the liability of employers, and Mr. Bush is encouraging their effort. They would allow employers to shield themselves by naming an outside entity, known as "a designated decision-maker," to assume liability. The House Republican bill includes a similar device.
In a statement of principles in February, Mr. Bush said employers should be "shielded from unnecessary and frivolous lawsuits." At the same time, Mr. Bush said, "employers who retain responsibility for and make final medical decisions should be subject to suit."
Ms. Snowe said Mr. Bush called her today and urged her to expand her efforts at compromise beyond the issue of employer liability. The president, she said, also wants Congress to channel most lawsuits into federal courts and to limit the amount of damages.
Senate Democrats showed today that they had some reliable Republican support. On the first vote, 12 Republicans and Senator James M. Jeffords, an independent of Vermont, voted with 48 Democrats in rejecting the motion to send the bill to committees for further work. On the second vote, relating to employer liability, six Republicans and Mr. Jeffords voted with all 50 Democrats. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); DAMAGES (88%); IMMUNITY (88%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (85%); VETO (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (74%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); EMPLOYER LIABILITY (74%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (73%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; LABOR; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (59%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



694 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

North Koreans in China Press U.N. on Asylum Issue
Seven North Koreans entered the office of the United Nations high commissioner for refugees in Beijing seeking political asylum, setting the stage for a confrontation between the United Nations agency and China, which has long insisted that such North Koreans are economic immigrants who should be returned. A1

U.N. Effort on AIDS
The General Assembly, which is holding a special session on AIDS, is expected to vote today on a declaration calling on all countries to put into effect and pay for national strategies to fight the epidemic. A10

President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, whose country has the world's largest population of people with H.I.V., skipped the AIDS session in New York to go to the White House, where President Bush helped him deflect accusations that his government had all but neglected AIDS. A10

Bush and Sharon Air Views
President Bush, meeting with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon in Washington, urged the Israeli leader to be more receptive to political steps that the administration believes are necessary to cool the Middle East situation, a senior administration official said. But Mr. Sharon, who has insisted that the Palestinians have not done enough to stop the violence, maintained that there had to be zero violence for at least 10 days before Israel would move to the next modest steps that the administration envisions as leading toward peace. A9

A Palestinian memorandum says the Palestinian government believes Israel is trying "to forestall a return to meaningful political negotiations" by setting the "unattainable" standard of a complete halt in violence. The memo is circulating in advance of Secretary of State Colin L. Powell's visit this week. A9

4 British Youths Held in Killing
Four teenagers were charged in the fatal stabbing of Damilola Taylor, a 10-year-old Nigerian immigrant. His death in a London housing project caused revulsion because of evidence that passers-by had ignored him. A10

World Briefing A9

NATIONAL A12-20

Democratic Patients' Bill Gains Momentum in Senate
Senate Democrats won two significant victories as the Senate rejected Republican challenges to provisions of a Democratic bill to define patients' rights for more than 180 million Americans. One vote would have given employers complete immunity against lawsuits by employees who challenged the denial of claims for health benefits; the other vote was on pulling the bill from the floor. A1

The House voted to prohibit Mexican trucks from using highways in the United States beyond 20 miles of the border after they gain full access Jan. 1 under Nafta, though sponsors conceded the measure stood little chance of becoming law. A14

Wetlands Program Criticized
A federal program allowing landowners to destroy some wetlands if they create or restore others is failing, a scientific panel said, finding that the building of substitute wetlands was often delayed or never finished. A1

Cutbacks in B-1 Bomber Fleet
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld will call for cutting the Air Force's fleet of 93 B-1 bombers by nearly a third when he presents a detailed budget plan to Congress tomorrow, officials said. A16

Nominee for Rights Enforcer
The Bush Administration has nominated Gerald A. Reynolds, a lawyer and staunch opponent of affirmative action, to head the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights, the division responsible for protecting the civil rights of minorities, women and disabled people from kindergarten through graduate school. A20

Espionage Conviction
A federal jury in Tampa, Fla., convicted a retired civilian employee of the Army, George Trofimoff, 74, of spying for the Soviet Union and then Russia for at least 25 years. He faces life in prison. A12

New Guide on Jewish Conversion
The rabbinical leadership of Judaism's liberal Reform movement is poised to adopt a broad set of guidelines on conversion that will embrace traditional practices once rejected by Reform leaders, urge that converts make certain commitments to Jewish life and formally extend a strong welcome to men and women considering converting. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-12

Schundler Beats Franks For G.O.P. Nomination
Bret D. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City, defeated former Representative Bob Franks in the gubernatorial primary, giving conservatives the upper hand in New Jersey's Republican Party for the first time in 23 years and setting up a sharply drawn November contest against James E. McGreevey, the Democrat. A1

Census Data on Latinos Skewed
City officials say the Census Bureau, which tried a new way to count the Latino population, significantly underestimated the size of several groups, including Dominicans and Colombians, because of the rewording of a question on Hispanic ethnicity. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Further Blood Shortage Looms
The New York City area, already low on blood, could lose much of its supply as the F.D.A. moves to restrict donations from people possibly exposed to mad cow disease in Europe. A1

Report Hails Embryonic Cells
A National Institutes of Health report says research on stem cells derived from human embryos and adult tissue promises "a dazzling array" of treatments, but for some purposes, embryonic cells are superior. A20

SPORTS D1-8

EDUCATION B11

Dealing With Sports Abuses
A panel that included present and former college presidents proposed ways to combat commercialization, low graduation rates, plagiarism and exorbitant recruiting incentives. A16

OBITUARIES A21

DINING F1-8

The $1,200 Bordeaux
The 2000 vintage may be one of the best -- and most expensive -- despite poor weather and a mildew attack. F1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

G.E. Not Quitting on Deal
Top executives from G.E. and Honeywell, including G.E.'s chairman, John F. Welch Jr., were said to have met on Monday to discuss ways of resuscitating negotiations with European regulators over G.E.'s effort to acquire Honeywell. C1

U.S. Appealing Airline Ruling
The Justice Department will appeal a federal court decision dismissing the predatory pricing antitrust case against American Airlines. C1

Stockbroker's Glum Forecast
Merrill Lynch, the biggest American brokerage firm, warned that its earnings would sink this quarter and that unless the financial markets bounced back soon, it might have to eliminate more than the 3,300 jobs it cut this year. C1

A New Meaning for 'Altered Pet'
Transgenic Pets says it is developing a genetically engineered cat that will not cause allergies. So far, the allergen-free cat is closer to concept than to reality. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ARTS E1-10

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Ending corporate welfare; what to make of Thabo Mbeki; the Republicans in New Jersey.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL ASYLUM (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); AIDS & HIV (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); WETLANDS (61%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (58%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); THABO MBEKI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); ISRAEL (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



695 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: What Price for Military Readiness? 

BYLINE:  By Michael O'Hanlon; Michael O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and author of "Defense Policy Choices for the Bush Administration."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Late last week the Bush administration announced that it would add nearly $20 billion to its original request for the 2002 defense budget. If Congress appropriates that amount, as is likely, the defense budget will increase next year by 7 percent after accounting for inflation. At a time when the United States already spends as much on defense as the world's next eight powers combined, and when the Pentagon budget remains almost 90 percent of its average Cold War level, is such a large increase really necessary?
 The answer is probably yes. The United States has security interests and responsibilities on six continents. It also seeks to deter conflict rather than win war, and to suffer as few casualties as possible if deterrence fails. For these reasons, comparisons between the defense budgets of the United States and those of other countries mean little. Besides, American defense spending -- at 3 percent of our gross domestic product -- is not unreasonably high. As a percentage of G.D.P., it was twice as high in the Reagan years and three times as high during the 1950's and 1960's. 
 While today's military is hardly in such bad shape as President Bush and Vice President Cheney claimed during the presidential campaign -- near-term combat readiness levels are still comparable to those of the mid-1980's -- improvements are needed. Most notably, stocks of equipment purchased largely during the buildup of the 1980's need replacing. 
That means the president has a big problem. The $18.4 billion he has just added to his request for 2002 is devoted almost entirely to added training, spare parts, military pay and the like. Less than $4 billion is devoted to procuring equipment, on the grounds that Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld has not yet completed his defense review and so cannot yet propose his own plan for acquiring new weaponry. However, most independent analysts think that the annual procurement budget under existing Pentagon plans will have to increase by $20 billion to $30 billion. Mr. Rumsfeld may soon be in the position of asking for another spending increase just as large as the one he has recently proposed.
Unfortunately, in the aftermath of President Bush's tax cut, there is no more money for such an increase unless surplus projections grow yet again, which seems unlikely given the prevalent signs of a slowing economy. Assuming that the president will not rescind much of his tax cut, he faces a dilemma. At a time when most Americans worry more about education, the environment, health care and the solvency of entitlement programs than foreign threats, he would be running a huge political risk to trim domestic programs in order to spend roughly half of the available federal surplus over the next decade on a defense buildup. Yet as things stand, that is precisely what he will have to do.
One way out is to find ways to economize at the Pentagon. First, as Mr. Rumsfeld realizes, the military must be more efficient: it must close more bases, privatize and outsource more defense support activities, and simplify the way it buys weapons.
The Pentagon also needs to reconsider how it determines the size of its combat forces. The best solution would be to continue to be ready for two wars on different fronts but to cease making extreme worst-case assumptions about each. The capability to fight one war on the scale of Desert Storm while engaging in a smaller simultaneous operation elsewhere should be adequate.
Finally, Mr. Rumsfeld needs to cancel or streamline some key weapons programs. For all the administration's talk about "skipping a generation" of weaponry, Mr. Rumsfeld's advisers seem to support virtually all existing procurement programs as well as some others, like large-scale missile defense and more B-2 bombers. Such plans will not fit within a reasonable budget -- and not all are necessary -- given America's existing technological dominance.
Critics of the latest defense spending increase should push for reorganizing and economizing at the Pentagon. The administration had better do so as well. Given the tax cut's impact on revenues, the administration simply won't have the money to buy its way to better military preparedness.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Gelman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); DEFENSE SPENDING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); COLD WAR (78%); TAX LAW (78%); MILITARY COMPENSATION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); DICK CHENEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'HANLON, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



696 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1766 words

HEADLINE: A Central Bank in All Directions; 
Diverging National Interests Skew European Monetary Union

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 22 

 BODY:
Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the Bank of France and a governor of the European Central Bank, provided a vivid lesson not long ago of how the European common currency has not produced a common economic viewpoint.
 In words that reverberated through European financial markets in March, Mr. Trichet suggested that interest rates could come down because the central bank was no longer very worried about inflation. 
 Ten days later, after the bank did not cut rates, Mr. Trichet retreated. Looking like a man doing penance for his sins, he read a statement from the central bank's president, Wim Duisenberg, at a meeting of top finance officials from Germany and France. 
The bank "confirms its position of wait and see," Mr. Trichet read aloud, without elaborating. Fighting inflation was still the bank's primary objective, and it remained worried about the ripple effects of higher oil prices. 
Mr. Trichet's pullback reflected more than being chastised for a slip of the tongue. A growing number of analysts say it showed just how deep economic divisions run in Europe. And it conveyed the European Central Bank's own structural limitations, as well.
In the United States, the Federal Reserve has reduced interest rates five times this year and is expected to do so again shortly. By contrast, the European bank first promised to hold interest rates steady, then startled the markets with a small cut, and now is once again holding rates steady.
Is the central bank putting on the brakes or pressing on the gas?
Mr. Duisenberg, in an interview at the bank's headquarters here, acknowledged that people might be confused. "I don't deny that it is not an easy strategy to communicate," he said. But he insisted that it was not intended to be puzzling.
"It is not our policy to surprise markets," Mr. Duisenberg said. "By explaining our strategy and by explaining our decisions, we want to be as predictable and unsurprising as possible."
That may not be possible. The 12-nation euro zone is being pulled in opposite directions. In big countries, like Germany and Italy, growth has slowed to a crawl. In smaller ones, like the Netherlands and Ireland, growth is stronger but inflation is running at the highest rates in years.
That would be a conundrum for any institution. But many experts argue that the bank's overarching goal of keeping inflation below 2 percent a year is too rigid.
Others argue that the bank has been hobbled by its quest for consensus. Its 18-member board of governors includes the presidents of all 12 national central banks, and Mr. Duisenberg has made clear that he would prefer no decision to one favored by only a slim majority.
"Maybe it is peculiar, but I try to forge a consensus," he said. "If a discussion were to lead to a narrow majority, then it is more likely that I would postpone a decision."
These have been trying times for Mr. Duisenberg. With little more than six months left before euro bills and coins are introduced into general use, the European common currency is floundering against the dollar. Euros, which began trading in electronic form two and a half years ago, have lost about one-quarter of their value against the dollar. When the central bank tried to shore up the exchange value by intervening in the currency markets last fall, the effect was negligible.
The last few months have been particularly messy. Long after most private economists had lowered their 2001 forecasts for European growth, the central bank remained publicly confident. And just as it finally did start trimming its forecast, consumer prices began rising more than expected.
In March, Mr. Trichet and other top officials baffled analysts by suggesting that the time had come for a rate cut, and then by reversing themselves. "A few months ago, we were very, very worried about inflation," Mr. Trichet remarked before falling into line with Mr. Duisenberg. "Not any more."
But on May 10, the bank seemed to reverse course again. Just as Mr. Duisenberg had persuaded market analysts that the bank would not relax rates, he announced a quarter-point cut in the benchmark short-term interest rate, to 4.5 percent.
He said the bank was merely making a technical adjustment, because it had refined its statistics on the money supply. Few believed him at the time, and the governing board has met three times since and declined to cut rates further.
A growing number of critics argue that the bank's structure and approach have limited its flexibility.
Friedrich Heinemann, an economist at the Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim, Germany, said that the bank's decision-making power is skewed toward smaller countries and that right now, those countries are worried more about inflation than a slowdown.
"Measured by gross domestic product, Germany is 150 times bigger than Luxembourg," Mr. Heinemann remarked. "But when it comes to decision-making, they each get one vote. In general, the smaller countries have faster growth and higher inflation than the bigger countries. So they are naturally much less interested in reducing interest rates to promote more growth."
Deutsche Bank, in a recent report, noted that the difference in growth rates had begun to narrow but that inflation levels were diverging more widely. In the Netherlands, where unemployment has dropped to 2 percent, consumer prices are rising at a rate of 5.4 percent. In Ireland, the fastest-growing European economy, inflation is running at 4.1 percent.
By contrast, the inflation rate in France was most recently 2.5 percent, with joblessness running at 8.5 percent. In Germany, there was 3.6 percent inflation and 7.7 percent unemployment.
The relatively higher inflation of smaller countries, in economic terms, is not too disturbing for Europe as a whole. In political terms, it can have a big impact.
Mr. Duisenberg recalled a conversation two years ago with the central banker of a booming small nation. Mr. Duisenberg wanted to cut rates then because he was worried about a severe economic slowdown. "I called and told him to expect a proposal on cutting interest rates at the next meeting," Mr. Duisenberg said. The banker's first reaction, he recalled, was: "Oh, no! Not in my country, too?"
Partly to help the European Central Bank project a unified front, Mr. Duisenberg labors hard to build enough consensus that votes are unnecessary.
"I am not a C.E.O.," he said. "I am chairman in the governing council. Therefore, I see it as my first task to forge that team spirit."
Thus far, he said, the members had formally voted only twice and those were on technical issues rather than basic monetary policy. "There hasn't always been unanimity," he said, "but it was always clear that a very large majority agreed."
But outside analysts say that the insistence on building consensus makes it hard to reach decisions. "It is not only that the group is large," said Jose Luis Alzola, an economist at Schroder Salomon Smith Barney in London. "The fact that they want to reach decisions with a large consensus, rather than by taking votes, makes it harder to act."
Other critics say the European Central Bank has adopted an overly rigid approach. Its self-imposed goal of keeping inflation below 2 percent is more restrictive than that of the Bank of England or the Federal Reserve.
The hard line is a legacy of the German central bank, which serves as the model for the European institution and which has placed top priority on preventing inflation.
But many European economists, including a growing number of Germans, now say that the standard is too tough. Mr. Alzola noted that incomes and prices in countries like Ireland and Portugal are simply catching up with their wealthy big neighbors, so higher inflation rates are almost inevitable.
"If you restrict inflation in those countries to less than 2 percent," he said, "then it means countries like Germany, with a naturally lower rate of inflation, would have a rate of closer to 1 percent. That is flirting with deflation."
This month, two leading German institutes that advise the government on economic policy called for a more relaxed approach to interest rates. But there have been few pleas for lower rates in most other European countries.
Another matter at issue is the central bank's practice of basing decisions on the growth in the money supply. That approach is also a direct inheritance of the Germans, and is based on the conviction that inflation is ultimately a result of printing too much money.
In central bank parlance, money-supply growth and expectations about inflation are the two "pillars" of monetary policy.
But a recent report by the Center for European Policy Studies, a research group in Brussels, concludes that the central bank's data on money supply is too fuzzy to be reliable. 
The bank itself acknowledged a problem in May. In cutting interest rates, the reason it gave was that it had refined its money-supply data, to include the large amounts of money held by people outside the European Union.
According to Mr. Duisenberg, the revisions showed that the money supply had grown much more slowly than previously thought. "We believe our monetary statistics are the best that we can lay our hands on," he said, "but even these statistics are constantly being reviewed." (The Fed long ago abandoned basing policy primarily on changes in the money supply.)
Daniel Gros, chairman of the Center for European Policy Studies, said the problems would not be solved so easily.
"It is quite strange that the E.C.B. has said the statistics on which it based its decisions are wrong," Mr. Gros said, "while on the other hand saying they won't change their approach at all."
Norbert Walter, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Research, said the European bank had a much bigger problem with euros held outside the area than the Bundesbank ever had with German marks held abroad.
As if all that were not enough, Mr. Duisenberg is entangled in a messy political battle over his plans for retirement. When European leaders named him president in 1998, shortly before the introduction of the euro, the French demanded that he agree to retire after four years so that Mr. Trichet could take his place for the remaining four years of the term.
Mr. Duisenberg insists that he made no promises and that the decision is his alone. French leaders are getting impatient. If Mr. Duisenberg refuses to budge, the French -- who are accustomed to playing a leading role in every European organization -- might find themselves left out more than they feel already.
Mr. Duisenberg refused to discuss his plans. "If you asked me," he said, "I wouldn't say anything."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Luxembourg euro coin is a prototype for money that will go into daily use in 12 nations, starting in January. Wim Duisenberg, below, presides over this and more as European Central Bank chief. (Agence France-Presse, above; Reuters, below) Chart: "Stretched Apart"The European Central Bank faces conflicting pressures in managing monetary policy because of widely different levels of unemployment and inflation in some of the 12 nations that have adopted the euro as their common currency. Graphs show UNEMPLOYMENT and INFLATION figures for ALL EURO ZONE COUNTRIES, SPAIN, IRELAND, FRANCE, NETHERLANDS and the range of unemployment rates and inflation rates for the year. (Sources: Eurostat; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY UNIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TRENDS (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%); STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (59%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (91%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (92%); SPAIN (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



697 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: ON BASKETBALL; 
Old Guard Watches Passing of the Torch

BYLINE:  By Mike Wise 

 BODY:
Moses Malone received the astonishing news from John Lucas, who was nearly his teammate at the University of Maryland.
 "He said, 'Mo, you got drafted,' " Malone recalled. "I said, 'Stop playing, Luke.' " 
 "No, you got drafted. I'm serious."
"For real?" 
"For real."
"That's cool," Malone said. "Let's go eat."
Riding around College Park, Md., in Lucas's Cadillac 27 years ago, Malone and Lucas were about to grab a sandwich before scrimmaging. "I think I had on jeans and a T-shirt, if I was dressed that nice," Malone said.
On the day Lefty Driesell's Terrapins lost a prize prospect, pro basketball gained its first teenager.
Tonight at Madison Square Garden, a few more youngsters will join a bustling new basketball world. When Commissioner David Stern calls his name, Tyson Chandler, 18 years old, will trudge to the podium in one of two tailored suits hanging in his hotel closet, "Either blue or tan, I'm not sure yet," he said. "David Rickey designed one of them."
Michael Jordan's personal trainer has already spent a lot of time with 18-year-old Eddy Curry, another probable first-rounder. Kwame Brown, who is projected to go No. 1, to the Wizards, has turned to yoga to increase his flexibility.
They've come a long way. So far, so fast, that the landscape today is almost unrecognizable.
"Never mind their games, I don't even know most of their names," Malone said yesterday by telephone from his home outside of Houston.
Eugene Moses Malone is the first player in N.B.A. history to go from high school to a bronze bust in Springfield, Mass., without a stop at college. He broke in with the Utah Stars of the American Basketball Association in 1974, had very good years in Houston, won a championship in Philadelphia and did not retire until 1995.
Twenty seasons, 17,834 rebounds and 1,560 games later, he will be enshrined in the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame this fall -- the only player in the 2001 class.
"These guys got it much better today than me, Bill Willoughby and Darryl Dawkins," Malone said of the three most prominent players who skipped college in the 1970's. "You used to have to average 30 points, 20 rebounds and 10 blocked shots. It's gotten to the point where every kid who averaged 15 points and 10 rebounds is saying, 'Why should I even go to college?' "
An agent, Marc Cornstein, agreed. "It's unfortunate," he said, "but there is a feeling out there: if a guy stayed in school, how good can he be?"
No matter who drafts him, Shane Battier never regretted staying at Duke. The life experiences, the bonding. "I mean, you figure out how to get food at 3 o'clock in the morning when you're locked out of your room and you don't have a phone," he said.
Not one of the teenagers who is expected to be drafted ahead of Battier was a consensus national player of the year. Nor did any of them lead his team back from a 19-point deficit in a Final Four game.
None of that matters anymore. N.B.A. apprenticeships today begin at 14 and younger. If you can hold court on a rugged playground at that age, the shoes, sweats and free trips materialize. Soon, the cattle-call summer camps begin, and you're on your way. It is not right or wrong; it's just the way it is.
Rodney White, the North Carolina-Charlotte freshman, who could be a top five pick, attended five high schools. When asked why yesterday, he was very matter-of-fact.
"Each was a steppingstone," White said. "I did the public school as a freshman. Then I heard to get noticed in Jersey, going to a Catholic school is the thing to do. One of my assistants there knew about Mount Zion, which is a basketball factory in North Carolina. I just looked at each one as taking another step."
Malone is not in favor of a proposed age limit, no matter how old-school he sounds. And however noble Stern's intentions may seem, Malone said he understood the economics and marketing involved. "He wants to make sure college ballplayers get picked first," he said.
Without a working agreement or compensation, the N.C.A.A. has been marketing the N.B.A. for four decades, helping Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson and Shaquille O'Neal morph into pop-culture icons. But now the rules have changed, and the class of 2001 is much like other recent draft classes: a group of mostly unknown and unproven youngsters mixed in with a few talented foreigners and the occasional senior.
Tonight Stern will smile and shake the hands of some of the very players he does not want in his league for at least another two years.
This could be one of the greatest big-man drafts in history, but no one has heard of any of these players. Next to some draftees, Battier sounded like a 10-year veteran.
"I might give them some old-man advice real quick," he said, laughing. "Like, 'Tuck in your shirt' or something. If they want to go out and institute an age limit for just this year, I'll go out and carry a banner. I'm for that."
Asked what he drove around as a senior in high school, he said proudly, "a 1982 powder-blue Chevrolet Celebrity -- the best car I ever had."
Chandler and Curry have been driving Cadillac Escalades, custom sport-utility vehicles, for a while. "Everyone in this draft has an Escalade," Curry said, as if it came with the league's rookie-orientation program. "It's the newest, hottest car."
Curry, the 6-foot-11, 285-pound senior from Thornwood High in South Holland, Ill., said he knew "a little about" Malone. "He was a pretty good player."
After the smiles around the table emerged, he corrected himself. "He was a great player," he said.
In 1974 it was extremely unusual for a player to go straight from high school to the N.B.A. But since Kevin Garnett was drafted in 1995, 11 high school players have been taken in the first round. Today it's commonplace.
Today Moses Malone would not have had to hitch a ride to eat lunch in John Lucas's noisy Cadillac. The Hall of Fame inductee would have had an Escalade months ago. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); YOGA (64%) BASKETBALL; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (90%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%) WISE, MIKE; MALONE, MOSES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (68%) MARYLAND, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



698 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By James Barron with Leslie Wayne 

 BODY:
Money: No More, No Less
The lunchtime talk at the Four Seasons restaurant yesterday was financial, not social. DONNA HANOVER was there, as were KATI MARTON, a writer; MARIA BARTIROMO, a financial reporter for CNBC; and FAYE WATTLETON, a former president of Planned Parenthood. Women & Company, a subsidiary of Citigroup, had invited them to hear a speech by ROBERT E. RUBIN, left, the former treasury secretary, now a director of Citigroup.
 In an introduction by LISA CAPUTO, a former deputy assistant to President Clinton and press secretary for HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, Mr. Rubin was described as a "force for women" in the Clinton White House. 
 Mr. Rubin said he was not sure what that phrase meant, adding, "I want to make clear that my only area was economics."
Mr. Rubin was the only man in the room, except for the waiters. He was also the only one who ordered a vegetable plate.

Overlapping Engagements
Their agendas may not be in conflict, but their book-party schedules are. Tonight's party for WILLIAM F. BUCKLEY JR.'s novel "Elvis in the Morning" begins at the same time as Modern Maturity magazine's party 13 blocks away for HENRY A. KISSINGER and his book "Does America Need a Foreign Policy?"
There was some overlap on the guest lists -- "I think a lot," said Mr. Buckley's wife, PATRICIA, who is giving the party for "Elvis in the Morning." But being a hostess does not necessarily mean that she will miss the Kissinger party.
"I might well make a pit stop at two minutes of six," she said. "Maybe five minutes of six. It's unfortunate, but there we are."

Politics and Bedfellows
Days before the presidential election last year, MARLO THOMAS went on the "Today" show to upbraid her husband, PHIL DONAHUE, for talking up RALPH NADER's candidacy. Ms. Thomas talked up AL GORE's candidacy, arguing that Mr. Nader would help GEORGE W. BUSH by diverting Democratic votes from Mr. Gore.
On Monday, Ms. Thomas presided at a fund-raising lunch for ANDREW M. CUOMO, who is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor of New York.
Mr. Donahue was nowhere to be seen, but don't expect fireworks. "I'm not going to have to invalidate my husband's vote this time," Ms. Thomas said, noting that she and Mr. Donahue were registered to vote in New York. "We're on the same wavelength."

Social Security
Some temporary neighbors of PRIME MINISTER ARIEL SHARON of Israel -- people who live and work on Central Park South, near the hotel in which he stays when he is in Manhattan -- are grumbling that his security arrangements disrupt their daily routines. Mr. Sharon's comings and goings on Monday stopped traffic as well as deliveries to restaurants on the block between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas.
"Just because one man likes to stay at one hotel, life's got to stop here?" said WILLIAM LIEDERMAN, who lives on the block and is an owner of Mickey Mantle's Restaurant on Central Park South.
Others worried that the security was self-defeating. "They have made a building contiguous to two residential buildings ground zero for a terrorist attack," said ELIZABETH HEMMERDINGER, a restaurant owner. "They couldn't make it more obvious if they did skywriting over the building or set off flares."

Before That Big Round Number
The invitation said no presents, but GEORGE M. STEINBRENNER III sent a Yankees warm-up jacket to the actress MICHELE LEE, below, who celebrated her 59th birthday at a party with a crowd that included JOAN COLLINS and an NBC contingent -- JOHN SPENCER, a star of "The West Wing," and DICK WOLF, the creator of "Law and Order" and its spinoffs.
"People think when you say you're 59, it's a joke," Ms. Lee said. "Well, Barbra Streisand is three months older than me. When you hear she's hit six-oh, you know I'm not far behind." With Leslie Wayne

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (86%); WOMEN (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); FUNDRAISING (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); GOVERNORS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%) 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (58%) WOMEN & CO; CITIGROUP INC 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); RALPH NADER (79%); MARIA BARTIROMO (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); AL GORE (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%) BARRON, JAMES; RUBIN, ROBERT E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2001 



699 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Lawyers for Milosevic Delay Extradition Proceeding 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BELGRADE, Serbia, June 27 

 BODY:
Lawyers for Slobodan Milosevic, the ousted Yugoslav president, succeeded today in delaying efforts to extradite him to the international war crimes tribunal in The Hague, but the government appeared undeterred and started proceedings to extradite three other indicted men. 
 The Justice Ministry ordered a district court to prepare to extradite three former members of the Yugoslav Army indicted for killings of civilians in the Croatian town of Vukovar in 1991, press reports said. 
 The government's efforts this week to show it was willing to extradite war crimes suspects to stand trial paid off when the United States announced today that it would attend an international donors conference in Brussels on Friday.
Washington had threatened to boycott the meeting, which would have diminished Yugoslavia's chances of raising $1.25 billion in international credits and pledges it needs for this year to help rebuild its shattered economy.
Mr. Milosevic, already in prison facing domestic charges of corruption and abuse of power, had been set to appear before an investigative judge today to hear his indictment on charges related to the crackdown on Kosovo Albanians in 1998-1999 and to give his statement. But his lawyers raised objections to the judge and prosecutor, calling them biased.
Government ministers insisted that Mr. Milosevic's transfer to The Hague was not far off. Deputy Prime Minister Miroljub Labus predicted the move would occur within days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXTRADITION (97%); LAWYERS (91%); WAR CRIMES (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); HOMICIDE (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); BOYCOTTS (54%) EXTRADITION; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS 

PERSON: MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) NETHERLANDS (94%); SERBIA (93%); CROATIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOSOVO (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); ALBANIA (79%) SERBIA; HAGUE (NETHERLANDS)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



700 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Finish Almost Flat After Latest Fed Rate Cut

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

 BODY:
Blue-chip stocks fell modestly, while technology stocks posted slight gains yesterday after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates for the sixth time this year.
 Although the leading market gauges dropped initially after the Fed said it would reduce rates by a quarter of a percentage point, disappointing some investors who had hoped for a half-point, they closed near their starting points for the day. 
 "Everybody's heart monitors are attached to their trading machines, and when the Fed moves, you get the squiggles," said Nathaniel H. Paull, a portfolio manager for New Amsterdam Partners, a money management firm. "The last few cuts, it's been much wider swings and much more frantic." 
Excitement about interest rate cuts produced buoyancy in the markets in January and a strong rally in March and April.
"People thought it would produce either a quick turnaround or a quick market response," said Nick Sargent, global market strategist at J. P. Morgan Private Bank.
While some investors surely placed short-term bets on the size of the rate cut, the muted response underscored Wall Street's new focus on tax cuts, corporate inventories and capital spending -- anything that might offer a signal of better profits on the horizon.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 37.64 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,434.84, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.69 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,211.07. The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index, meanwhile, gained 10.12 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,074.74. Each of the indexes was moderately higher before the Fed's announcement.
"The market's already discounted and figured out what Federal Reserve interest rate policy is," said Stephen J. Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities, an investment bank in San Francisco. "To sit here and debate over a quarter-point or a half-point isn't relevant."
Among the Dow's 30 components, financial services stocks, which are highly sensitive to interest rates, fell modestly. American Express dropped 75 cents, to $38.25, while J. P. Morgan Chase fell 66 cents, to $44.02. Those stocks suffered on Tuesday after Merrill Lynch, which is not part of the Dow, warned that profits would fall far short of expectations.
Shares of International Paper and Alcoa, whose fortunes are both closely tied to interest rates, were up more than 1 percent before the announcement, despite slow trading activity. International Paper finished the day up 25 cents, at $35.75, and Alcoa gained 35 cents, to $38.46.
Among technology stocks, Xilinx, which warned of a revenue shortfall late Tuesday, fell $3.93, to $39.93, and Intel dropped 32 cents, to $28.65. Microsoft gained $1, to $71.14, and I.B.M. rose 48 cents, to $113.52.
"You would have had major disappointment if the Fed had started to signal it was done," Mr. Sargen said. "In the end, the Fed didn't shock anybody. Now people say, 'What's my catalyst?' "
Companies offered more evidence that increased profits were not in view.
The CVS Corporation, which owns pharmacies, said it would miss profit expectations for its second quarter, and its shares fell $7.59, to $36.51.
Dean Foods said earnings fell in its fiscal fourth quarter, but its stock gained 21 cents, to $39.56, as the results exceeded analysts' forecasts. 
Shares of oil companies fell after an industry trade group reported that gasoline supplies rose sharply last week.
Exxon Mobil, a Dow component, dropped $1.34, to $87.22, while Chevron fell $3.30, to $91.40. --------------------

Treasury Prices Mixed
By Bloomberg News
Bond prices were mixed yesterday after the Federal Reserve's quarter-point rate cut, which suggested the central bank was slowing its pace of rate reductions.
The price of the 10-year Treasury note fell 3/32 , to 98 8/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.23 percent from 5.22 percent on Tuesday.
The 30-year bond rose 14/32 , to 96 16/32 . Its yield fell to 5.62 percent from 5.65 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.781
High Yield: 3.990%
Low Yield: 3.900%
Median Yield: 3.968%
Accepted at low price: 74%
Total applied for: $28,559,898
Accepted: $14,666,746
Noncompetitive: $1,100,061
Interest set at: 3 7/8

The two-year notes mature June 30, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since February. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (69%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (59%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); ALCOA INC (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (69%); JPM (LSE) (69%); 8634 (TSE) (69%); AXP (NYSE) (59%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (69%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (59%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (59%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%)

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



701 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Koizumi Aides Advise U.S. That the Yen Could Soften 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
Japanese officials paving the way for Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's first visit here have warned the Bush team that some of Mr. Koizumi's plans are likely to worsen Japan's economic troubles over the next few years, with potentially major effects on the American economy. 
 In briefings at the White House and the Treasury this week, the officials have told Mr. Bush's aides that a likely effect of Mr. Koizumi's promise of rapid deregulation and a long-overdue repair of Japan's crippled banking system could be a temporary decline in the value of the yen. 
 That poses a vexing problem for Mr. Bush. Although he has publicly welcomed Mr. Koizumi's embrace of the economic changes that a succession of American presidents, including Mr. Bush's father, have urged, a result in the next few years could be to make Japanese imports like cars and steel less expensive in the United States.
That could increase competition for American manufacturers who are already dealing with a downturn. Or, as a Bush aide put it recently, "They are doing the right thing at what turns out to be a very bad moment for us."
With a strong dollar -- far stronger than it might be if Japan and Europe were healthy -- American products are more expensive in foreign markets, and imports are comparatively less expensive here. This year, even as American economic prospects have dimmed and interest rates have been slashed, the world has continued to buy the dollar and sell the yen. The yen's value has declined 7.8 percent against the dollar since the beginning of the year.
Mr. Bush is not too likely to discuss this problem publicly when he meets Mr. Koizumi on Saturday at Camp David in a carefully managed visit that is intended to reaffirm the strength of the United States-Japan military alliance.
Nor is the White House eager to discuss two major areas of disagreement. One is the administration's determination to extend its plans for missile defense into the Pacific, a move that Japanese officials fear would be a provocation to China. The second area is Mr. Bush's rejection of the Kyoto treaty on global warming. Japanese officials fervently support it, though they say they have no illusions about changing Mr. Bush's mind.
When Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain visited Camp David soon after Mr. Bush's inauguration, the two leaders held a joint news conference near the mountain retreat. Japan wants nothing less, noting that in 1993 Bill Clinton used a similar news conference with another Japanese reformer.
But White House officials deflected Japan's desire for a lengthy joint appearance, leaving Mr. Koizumi to speak alone to reporters later in the day.
The warnings to the administration in recent days have been made through many channels, including by a special emissary, Haruo Shimada, a economics professor from Keio University who went to college with the new prime minister. Mr. Shimada said in an interview that he had warned Mr. Bush's economic aides that Mr. Koizumi's efforts to deregulate the economy and get rid of hundreds of billions of dollars in bad loans still on the books of its huge banks would "mean more job losses and a higher rate of deflation."
Deflation is the erosion of prices, an economic oddity in postwar industrialized economies, and it can have effects as ravaging and uncontrollable as inflation. All recent indicators show that Japan is slipping into yet another recession.
The Bush administration's private position on the prospect of a weaker yen has been that it is willing to accept a weaker currency if Japan puts structural changes in place first. But Mr. Bush's aides are concerned that if Mr. Bush encourages Mr. Koizumi's plan too strongly on Saturday, the yen will be sold off in the markets long before it is clear whether the new prime minister can deliver.
Throughout the 1990's, American companies paid little attention to the yen, because with factories running full speed and demand high, the effects of Japanese competition seemed to fade. Congress even paid little attention to trade deficits that were as large, or larger, than those of the 1980's, when they seemed a symbol of Japanese dominance.
But now Mr. Bush finds himself in a position reminiscent of the one that vexed his father. American companies, hurting at home, are seeking relief from imports. Mr. Bush has responded, starting an action against Japan and other nations that the administration accuses of "dumping" steel here at unfairly low prices. With a weak yen, Honda and Toyota, among other Japanese makers, will be in a better position to to undercut 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); US DOLLAR (77%); TRENDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (68%); GLOBAL WARMING (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); TONY BLAIR (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



702 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Turns Less Aggressive 

 BODY:
Yesterday the Federal Reserve Board decided to cut interest rates for the sixth time this year in its continuing efforts to stimulate the economy. But this time it lowered its target for the federal funds rate by only a quarter of a percentage point rather than the heftier half-point to which it had resorted in the previous five cuts. The Fed's restraint is likely to signal a tapering off of its efforts to cut the cost of borrowing so as to encourage business investment and consumer spending. Given the mixed state of the economy and the risk that further rate cuts could lead to higher inflation, a wait-and-see approach to future cuts seems prudent. 
 One reason for caution is that the Fed has not had much time to observe the effects of its past decisions. Changes in monetary policy typically take about six months to percolate through the economy, so even the first of this year's rate cuts is only now reaching the point where its effects should become noticeable. Over the past two decades, the Fed has enacted a series of rate cuts six times. In five of those cases there was an immediate jump in inflation right on the heels of the last cut. This historical pattern suggests that the Fed tends to overshoot and cut rates too much in its efforts to combat economic slumps. Overshooting could be especially dangerous now, since companies have not yet passed along all the recent, rapid increases in producer prices and wages to consumers. Consumer prices will inevitably catch up, and the Fed, which has already cut rates so low that it has little room for future rate cuts, should be careful not to add fuel to the fire. 
 The Fed's emerging restraint makes sense in light of some encouraging economic news. This week's reports on orders of durable goods, sales of new homes and consumer confidence all came in better than Wall Street had expected. Unemployment, despite thousands of recent layoffs across a wide range of sectors, is still well below the rate commonly associated with stable inflation and growth. And the much-touted drop in after-tax corporate profits was still, as of the first quarter, smaller than the one that occurred between 1997 and 1998.
That is not to say that the economic outlook is uniformly rosy. Despite the surprisingly positive news this week, orders for durable goods are still down sharply from a year ago. Industrial production has also fallen for eight months in a row. A similar dip in Germany is now being called the harbinger of recession, though it should be noted that Germany is more dependent on manufacturing than the United States. All the same, weakness in Europe and Japan will dampen any American recovery by hurting demand for exports. The National Bureau of Economic Research, an unofficial arbiter of business cycles, said last week that a recession might already be under way.
If the current slowdown feels like a recession, it is mostly because of the heights from which the economy has fallen. Over the past century, economic growth has averaged close to 2.5 percent per year, a rate many analysts expect to see recaptured by the end of this year. Some analysts argue that the last few years' gains in labor productivity imply that the economy could expand steadily at 3 to 4 percent a year, but such productivity gains have occurred on a transitory basis several times since the 1960's without ushering in a new era of higher economic growth. This debate is unlikely to be resolved for several years. In the meantime, the nation's central bank should stay mindful of traditional inflationary pressures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); RECESSION (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DURABLE GOODS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); LAYOFFS (61%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; CREDIT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



703 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: Slowdown May Threaten U.S. Surplus 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
The weakened economy is beginning to eat into the projected federal budget surplus, complicating the agendas of the two parties in Washington and setting off a debate among economists about how big and sustained the problem will be.
 The shortfalls so far are small relative to the overall size of the projected surplus, economists and government budget analysts said. 
 But the $1.35 trillion tax cut that President Bush signed into law this month left Congress and the administration with a much-reduced pot of money to deal with all other needs. So even a modest downward revision to the surplus could force Democrats and Republicans to make politically difficult choices about taxes and spending that they sidestepped when the surplus was growing almost by the month. 
Government budget analysts noticed last month that corporate income tax revenues had fallen sharply during the spring, leading the Congressional Budget Office to forecast that overall tax receipts for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 would be about $20 billion lower than anticipated. 
Treasury Department figures showed that corporate income tax receipts for the first eight months of the fiscal year were running about 3 percent below the period a year earlier.
Budget analysts said preliminary analysis of the figures for June -- when many big corporations make substantial tax payments -- show an even steeper falloff, reflecting a tumble this year in corporate profits.
The budget office said earlier this month that the federal government would still post a total surplus this year of about $200 billion, including excess Social Security and Medicare receipts, even after accounting for the downturn in corporate tax revenues and the tax cut. 
But private economists said the decline in corporate tax receipts could be a harbinger of a longer-lasting squeeze that could also affect personal income tax revenues, especially those coming from capital gains and stock options.
William C. Dudley, chief domestic economist for Goldman, Sachs & Company, told the Senate Budget Committee today that revenue next year could fall short of the current Congressional Budget Office projection by $50 billion to $75 billion. 
After taking account of the tax cut, the budget office's total surplus projection for next year is about $266 billion. But of that, $172 billion would come from Social Security, and is considered off limits by both parties, leaving $94 billion. A shortfall of the scale estimated by Mr. Dudley would therefore cut the available surplus next year by at least half. 
Democrats -- joined by some Republicans -- say another $38 billion in excess Medicare revenue should be taken off the table next year for budgeting purposes and reserved for reducing the national debt. If that step were taken, a shortfall of $50 billion to $75 billion would force Congress and the administration either to cut spending, raise taxes or dip into the Social Security and Medicare surpluses.
With many of the factors that drove the economic boom of the last few years now moving in reverse, "the surprises over the next year or two on the budget are likely to be negative ones as the exuberance wears off," Mr. Dudley said.
In the long run, overoptimism about the economy's potential for growth could also lead to a substantial scaling back of the 10-year surplus projection, Mr. Dudley said.
Other economists, joined by the Bush administration and Republicans on Capitol Hill, said the budget outlook was brighter than Mr. Dudley suggested.
Brian S. Wesbury, chief economist at Griffin, Kubik, Stephens & Thompson, a Chicago investment firm, told the Senate Budget Committee that the economy was going through a "typical cyclical slowdown" and was likely to turn around by next year. 
The current surplus estimates, he said, "are still on track in the long run" because the forces behind them -- especially an improvement in the growth rate of productivity -- remain intact despite the slowdown. Productivity is the most basic measure of the economy's ability to create more jobs and higher incomes without setting off inflation.
Administration officials said the budget could face a squeeze in the next few years that would require holding down the rate of increase in government spending. But they said the assumptions behind the long-term surplus projections were conservative and that the nation was in no danger of a return to budget deficits of the sort that plagued the United States during the 1980's and 1990's.
"Over the 10-year budget window, I don't see a problem," said Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the White House's Council of Economic Advisers. 
The Congressional Budget Office calculated hypothetically earlier this year that a modest recession could shave $63 billion off next year's surplus projection and $133 billion off the 10-year projection of a $5.6 trillion surplus, including the Social Security surplus.
After taking out the Social Security surplus and accounting for the tax cut and the other initiatives that the two parties have agreed on, the available surplus during the 10 years is now down to no more than $1 trillion or so -- and perhaps much less -- even before any downward revision is made because of the weak economy.
The budget office and the White House's Office of Management and Budget are both preparing new surplus projections, but will not release them until later this summer. Congressional aides said economists at the Congressional Budget Office have been discussing a reduction in their surplus estimate of around $200 billion over the next 10 years.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Corporate Tax Receipts Slip"Federal revenue from corporate income tax receipts decreased in the first eight months of the 2001 fiscal year, compared with 2000. Economists expect the trend to continue as corporate earnings slide. REVENUE SOURCE (OCT.-MAY): Corporate income taxes2000: $114 billion2001: $110 billionCHANGE: -2.9 % REVENUE SOURCE (OCT.-MAY): Individual income taxes2000: 6652001: 704CHANGE: +5.8 REVENUE SOURCE (OCT.-MAY): Payroll taxes2000: 4342001: 465CHANGE: +7.2 REVENUE SOURCE (OCT.-MAY): Other2000: 1062001: 99CHANGE: -6.6 REVENUE SOURCE (OCT.-MAY): Total2000: $1,3182001: *$1,378CHANGE: +4.5 % * Figures for 2000 do not add because of rounding.(Source: Treasury Department)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (76%); POLITICS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); STOCK OPTIONS (62%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; CORPORATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE; TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (67%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



704 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: America's Cheese State Fights to Stay That Way; 
Wisconsin Struggles to Keep Pace With West

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: WATERLOO, Wis. 

 BODY:
In an old red barn set amid green pastures, Eugene Kegler is milking cows in the late afternoon and wondering whether the sun is about to set on this way of life.
 "We don't know for sure," Mr. Kegler says, methodically hooking up 70 cows, one by one, to a stainless steel milking machine as his wife, Ruby, and their son Glenn, who is 36, help with the work. "We'd like to make some changes, but building costs are so high. How can you justify spending half a million dollars just to keep milking cows?" 
 Mr. Kegler, 61, is a second-generation dairy farmer who scrapes by in a region best known for its rolling meadows and Holstein cows. But milk prices are in a slump these days, and the dairy industry is moving westward, to states like Arizona, California, Idaho and New Mexico, where large-scale agriculture is being adopted more rapidly. 
Consolidation is also reshaping the landscape, as large dairy processors seize a greater share of the market. As a result, the little red barn with 50 or so dairy cows is on the way out, and the giant 2,000- to 3,000-cow operation pioneered in the West is replacing it.
Wisconsin, which still has 18,000 dairy farmers, is struggling to keep pace. But as the state navigates a complicated path between trying to preserve its small family farms and adopting the more efficient factorylike operations, its milk production is stagnating along with that of the entire region. 
Seven years after California unseated Wisconsin as the nation's biggest dairy state, Wisconsin is still searching for a way to reignite growth in one of its most important industries. But now California is even vying to replace Wisconsin as the No. 1 cheese producer. California is planning a double-edged approach: branding its cheeses in ways that resemble its success with premium wines and hoping to lure plants eager to churn out tons of mozzarella and other commodity cheeses next to its rapidly growing milk operations. The result could be devastating for Wisconsin's $18 billion dairy industry.
No one expects Wisconsin's dairy industry to disappear overnight. But the state's reluctance to speedily adopt big-scale dairy farms to bolster growth and offset the annual loss of scores of small farmers could be aiding the westward expansion of the cheese and dairy industry, agriculture experts say.
To retain a strong cheese industry, Wisconsin needs to produce more milk; 85 percent of the state's milk is used to make cheese. But uncertainty about the state's outlook is one reason Land O'Lakes, one of the biggest dairy producers, recently decided to scrap plans to build a $200 million cheese plant in Wisconsin. The company is building in California instead. So how serious is the issue here?
"It is approaching a crisis stage," said John Umhoefer, executive director of the Wisconsin Cheese Makers Association. "Milk production has been flat for a decade. But we need more milk in Wisconsin to satisfy the cheese industry."
The problems have a kind of ripple effect, dairy experts say. Fewer farmers means falling milk production; and less milk means higher prices for cheese producers, which forces them to head west, where the price of raw milk is lower.
"It's just part of the problem of the industrialization of agriculture," said Todd J. Duvick, a food analyst at Bank of America. "States in the Midwest have laws against corporate agriculture. There's a mentality of preserving the family farm. But in the process they're losing an entire industry."
There was a time when Wisconsin was undeniably "America's Dairyland," when small farmers, growing their own feed and milking herds of 40 or 50 cows, made a good living under government-supported milk prices. And the state is still proud of its status, as the number of cheeseheads at any Green Bay Packer football game will testify.
But the economics of the dairy industry started to shift in the 1980's, when California began experimenting with large operations that lowered the cost of production. The dairy operations that emerged were more efficient, better managed and generated far more milk per cow. Today, cows in California produce on average 21,000 pounds of milk a year, compared with 17,000 pounds for Wisconsin cows.
With the California-style operations, as they are called, about 2,000 megafarms, with an average herd size of 650 cows, produce more milk than 18,000 mostly smaller farms in Wisconsin, where the average herd is 80.
Seeing the benefits accruing to low-cost producers in California, farmers in other Western states built their own big dairies in the 1990's. Farmers in Arizona, Idaho and New Mexico said their climates were nearly as temperate and suitable to dairy cows as that of central California. And in most cases, energy and land costs were cheaper. And there were fewer environmental hurdles.
Those states are now emerging dairy powerhouses, with Idaho leading the way, becoming the nation's No. 6 milk producer, up from No. 12 a decade ago. The cheese plants have come, too. The Western United States now produces more milk and cheese than any other part of the country.
"Dairies out there have learned to use new technologies, and they're willing to make huge investments," said Jack Prince, an executive vice president at Land O'Lakes, based in Arden Hills, Minn. "You're talking about $10 million to $20 million."
Wisconsin's dairy industry leaders insist the state can still compete. But not with small dairy operations. Instead, farmers here are starting their own California-style dairies. Cheap land, low energy costs, quick access to Eastern markets and an ample supply of water and cheap grain could help Wisconsin compete with California and Idaho, the experts say.
"Wisconsin is far from dead," said Robert Cropp, a professor of dairy marketing and policy at the University of Wisconsin at Madison. "We don't look like California, but you're seeing more 400- and 800-cow farms."
One of the first to adopt the California look was the Crave Brothers Farm, just two miles east of Mr. Kegler's farm. George Crave, 43, and three of his brothers own 600 dairy cows that produce 18 million pounds of milk a year. 
The 12-worker operation has a large free-stall barn, a new milking parlor, a feed bunker, five tractors, a manure pit and a calving barn. There is even a small cheese plant being built across from the milking parlor, on property that includes 1,300 acres of crop land.
"Each brother specializes in something," Mr. Crave said. "We have two advantages here: the economics of volume and scale."
Dozens of other big farms are sprouting up, mostly in the eastern part of the state, where the land is flat and more conducive to handling the tons of waste. The big operations here are also turning to the influx of Mexican immigrants as cheap labor.
But the changes are not coming without a battle. Politicians, environmental advocates and some community leaders have tried to block big operations from opening, saying they threaten to alter the picturesque landscape, foul waterways and bring ruin to traditional family farms.
Gov. Scott McCallum of Wisconsin insists the plight of the small dairy farmer is really about the complicated government support system that has resulted in lower prices for Wisconsin dairies.
The real problem," said Lisa Hull, Governor McCallum's press secretary, "is milk prices."
Many, however, say size, and not price, is the more crucial issue, and that political obstacles have simply stalled the development of big dairy operations in Wisconsin, where special permits are required for herds of 1,000 or more.
"We've got people who have this locked-in perception of a farm, and they don't want that changed," said Tom Thieding, a spokesman for the Wisconsin Farm Bureau. 
"They'll fall over each other to get a Wal-Mart," Mr. Thieding said, "but they'll also fall over each other to stop a large dairy operation from coming in."
Part of the problem is that Wisconsin is struggling with questions about culture as much as economics. 
"There's not a lot of family involved; it's working and overseeing," said David Schuster, a 42-year-old fourth-generation dairy producer who milks cows with his father and son on a farm in Marshall, Wis. "I can't get past that part. I don't know if I'd make it as management."
Concerned about the emergence of big farms, one entrepreneur decided to experiment by building a 300-cow dairy with a modern milking parlor. He said he built it to see whether a family of two or three could profitably operate what by Wisconsin's standards is a relatively big dairy farm.
"Is it possible to buck the trend?" said the entrepreneur, John Gehl, who own Gehl's Guernsey Farms, a milk processor in Germantown, Wis. "Is it possible for a father and son to compete against a megafarm?"
Mr. Gehl says he invested more than $1 million in the project because he was frustrated with the pace of change in Wisconsin. But he also does not want to see the demise of the small family farm.
"Not many think my farm will survive," he said. "But I'd rather have 10,000 farms with 400 cows apiece than 2,000 farms with 2,000 cows apiece."
Whatever happens, people in Wisconsin contend the state will hold onto one of the top spots in milk and cheese.
Dick Groves, editor of the Madison-based Cheese Reporter, predicts that California will overtake Wisconsin as the nation's "Big Cheese" by 2005. But he sees no doomsday situation.
"Yes, Wisconsin is losing market share, but I don't see them giving up," Mr. Groves said. "Too much is at stake here. Chances are you're going to have two states with about 2.5 billion pounds of cheese a year."
Most experts agree that Wisconsin will remain a top-tier dairy state as big dairies win greater acceptance here, if only to keep pace with the broader consolidation in the food industry. In April, for example, two of the nation's biggest dairy processors, the Suiza Foods Corporation and the Dean Foods Company, said they would merge to create a coast-to-coast milking mammoth. The question here in the Midwest is whether the move to California-style dairies is happening quickly enough. Indiana, Michigan and Minnesota are asking the same question.
Mr. Kegler in Waterloo does not particularly like the size of the new farms. But he says they are inevitable.
"There's a lot of vitriol whenever someone wants to put in a 2,000-cow operation," he said. "But the people here in Wisconsin have to change their mind because the smaller guys are getting too old, and they don't want to milk anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheeseheads who frequent Green Bay Packer games serve as a reminder of Wisconsin's status as the top cheese producer. But dairy farmers like Ruby and Eugene Kegler, left, in Waterloo, Wis., are struggling to compete with farmers out West. (Andy Manis for The New York Times); (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Land O'Lakes, one of the biggest dairy producers, which has a milk processing plant in Tulare, Calif., has scrapped plans to build a cheese plant in Wisconsin. The company said it would build in California instead. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)(pg. C8) Chart: "Dairy Kings"Last year, 8.25 billion pounds of cheese were produced in the United States, more than a quarter of it in Wisconsin. But last year was also the first time that the West surpassed the Upper Midwest in milk output, which is helping Western states, led by California, catch up with Wisconsin and its neighbors in cheese prduction as well. Pie chart shows share of 2000 United States cheese production (excludes cottage cheese):OTHER STATES: 26%PENNSYLVANIA: 5%IDAHO: 7%MINNESOTA: 8%NEW YORK: 9%CALIFORNIA: 18%WISCONSIN: 27% Graphs compares milk production and cheese production for the 13 western states and the 12 north central states from 1994-2000. (Source: Department of Agriculture)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY FARMING (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FAMILY FARMS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); CHEESE (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (89%); CHEESE MFG (89%); MILK (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); FLUID MILK MFG (74%); AGRICULTURE CONSOLIDATION (74%); MARKET SHARE (72%); FOOD PRICES (69%) DAIRY PRODUCTS; FARMERS; PRODUCTION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CHEESE 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (69%) WISCONSIN, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); WEST USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) WISCONSIN; ARIZONA; CALIFORNIA; IDAHO; NEW MEXICO; WESTERN STATES (US)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



705 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: Fans and Foes Greet Former Taiwan Leader in Visit to Cornell 

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN 

DATELINE: ITHACA, N.Y., June 27 

 BODY:
Looking energized and utterly in his element, Taiwan's former president, Lee Teng-hui, returned to his alma mater, Cornell University, this week for the first time since a visit in 1995 and wasted little time delving into a topic that has long confounded Beijing and Washington: Taiwan politics. 
 In a speech before more than 400 enthusiastic supporters on Tuesday night, Mr. Lee, 78, talked about Taiwan's growing pains as a democracy, while criticizing Beijing's government for ignoring "the voices of the people." And he hinted strongly that his political days were not over. "After I stepped down, after I retired, I saw that everything became a mess, and I can't take it anymore," he said. 
 Given the politically charged atmosphere and passionate demonstrations that have followed him, it has been easy to forget that Mr. Lee is officially here on a private visit to see his granddaughter, a Cornell student, and to attend the dedication of a science institute named in his honor.
And for the most part, Mr. Lee has maintained a low profile. But simply by showing up, Mr. Lee has already seized upon a rare opportunity to draw attention to himself, his country's embattled economic and political climate as well as Taiwan's role in United States-China relations. 
Circumstances were different in 1995. Mr. Lee, who received a Ph.D. in agricultural economics in 1968, was president then, and he delivered a speech that touched on his commitment to Taiwan's economic development and democratization. It wasn't so much what he said, but that Washington allowed him to say it -- as the first Taiwan president to visit the United States since diplomatic ties between Washington and Taipei ended in 1979 -- that angered Beijing. In retaliation, China threatened Taiwan with war games. Relations between Washington and Beijing reached their lowest point since the 1989 crackdown in Tiananmen Square. 
This time, China's response to Mr. Lee's trip, while irate, has been more muted, perhaps because other issues, such as Beijing's 2008 Olympics bid, have been more pressing. 
During his 12-year presidency, Mr. Lee earned the nickname Mr. Democracy for opening up Taiwan's political system, but was also criticized for tolerating corruption. Then, after Mr. Lee's Nationalist Party lost last year to Chen Shui-bian and the Democratic Progressive Party, which supports independence from China, Mr. Lee resigned as Nationalist chairman.
In recent months, however, he has re-emerged as an influential power broker while distancing himself from the Nationalists, expressing support for Mr. Chen. 
On Tuesday, Mr. Lee arrived here from Los Angeles, and was greeted by more than 500 people, mostly Taiwanese-Americans, unfurling banners supporting Mr. Lee and waving the green-and-white flags of the Democratic Progressive Party.
Later, he delivered a speech in which he urged patience with the inexperienced Mr. Chen. "We should give him some time," Mr. Lee said. "You can't ask an inexperienced child to run before he learns to walk."
Today, however, Mr. Lee's detractors had their day. More than 200 protesters chanted slogans supporting a united motherland. Most were students from China, but the crowd also included Nationalist veterans from New York City who were born in China and fought against the Communists, but who have never accepted independence for Taiwan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); OLYMPICS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); GRANDCHILDREN (53%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (94%) CORNELL UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; LEE TENG-HUI 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



706 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
The Museum Was Used For Mayhem

BYLINE:  By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
THEY are always surprised and they are always sorry when a boxer is carried from the ring with his brain in chaos. It wasn't supposed to be this way, say the people who are making money from the carnage.
 Now they are doing it at museums. What is next? Classrooms? Public squares? Churches? 
 The latest tragedy has taken place at the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum, a retired aircraft carrier docked on the West Side of Manhattan. On Tuesday, a warm and lovely evening, 2,438 paying customers -- or rather, witnesses -- watched Beethavean Scottland of Maryland, age 26, lose consciousness during a bout with George Jones.
As of last night, Scottland was fighting for his life as bravely as he had fought for his livelihood, but he was listed in very critical condition at Bellevue Hospital. 
It is not at all demeaning to Scottland to say that he was damaged for the amusement of paying customers while doing something he wanted and probably loved to do. 
Other sports pursue a goal or a home run or a touchdown, and injuries happen along the way. His sport pursues temporary unconsciousness, a minideath that then subsides, if everybody is lucky that night.
This fight happened to be nationally televised on ESPN2, but HBO is the major player in this grisly business. These networks do not distinguish between boxing and other events they carry. Sports are sports, they say. And they cannot stage the matches in studios. They need sites, the flashier the better.
Boxing used to be the product of smoky halls and was occasionally permitted into the major stadiums and arenas. Now it has become the province of the glitzy gambling dens. 
A boxer died at one of Donald Trump's casinos two years ago, and the Donald quite candidly admitted to a certain amount of queasiness at the spectacle of boxing, which he could personally avoid by not attending anymore.
But in this age of dot-com riches and urban rejuvenation and disposable income, boxing commands other sites. 
The lovely new stadium in Coney Island, KeySpan Park, will be used for boxing next Saturday. Apparently, 38 minor league baseball games will not generate enough revenue. One of these nights, the public utility and the Brooklyn Cyclones and the city that spent $39 million to build the stadium might be associated with death or brain damage. Do they want this? 
There is also boxing at the Hammerstein Ballroom at the Manhattan Center. Where rock groups normally turn up the amps, boxers will attempt to turn out each other's lights, perhaps permanently. And the world's most famous arena, as Madison Square Garden is called, has returned to being an enabler of brain bashing after a period of disengagement.
As a longtime advocate of the abolition of boxing, I don't guess there is much difference between one abattoir and another. But I confess to being outraged that the latest horror took place on the Intrepid. 
This vessel helped defend the United States during three wars, from 1943 to 1974, and later served in space missions and cold-war maneuvers. As Laura Lee of The New York Times noted yesterday, "The ship has survived seven bomb attacks, five kamikaze strikes and one torpedo hit." It was also used for boxing matches between sailors or fighters brought in to entertain the troops. 
Now the obscenity is that schoolchildren and tour groups go to the Intrepid to marvel at the sacrifices and skills of people who served in a noble cause. Boxers are no less admirable than military people; they undoubtedly bring the same hungers, the same bravery, the same hopes and fears. But the cause is different. 
To make a few bucks, the Intrepid was leased out for a boxing spectacle. While people were dining and drinking in the pleasure spots of Manhattan on a gorgeous summer evening, paying customers collected on the deck of the Intrepid. The skyline was amazing and the sunset was amazing. Folks were going to get their money's worth.
Scottland took a ferocious pounding from Jones early in their light-heavyweight fight. Scottland had passed his physicals; everything was in order, or so they say. The doctor on duty apparently expressed some concern when Scottland was battered in the seventh round, but then the boxer rebounded, only to fall in the 10th round, and then it was too late. 
Beethavean Scottland lay in the ring, and then they took him to the hospital, straight from the deck of the Intrepid. The people entrusted to run this museum will say, "But it wasn't supposed to happen this way." People always say that after a boxer is carried out. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); BOXING (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); BASEBALL (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); GAMING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%) BOXING 

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTREPID SEA-AIR-SPACE MUSEUM (NYC) 

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (52%); NG (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (52%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (52%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%) VECSEY, GEORGE; JONES, GEORGE; SCOTTLAND, BEETHAVEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) NEW YORK CITY

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



707 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Statement on Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to lower interest rates: 
 The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points, to 3.75 percent. 
In a related action, the board of governors approved a 25-basis-point reduction in the discount rate, to 3.25 percent. Today's action by the F.O.M.C. brings the decline in the target federal funds rate since the beginning of the year to 275 basis points. 
 The patterns evident in recent months -- declining profitability and business capital spending, weak expansion of consumption, and slowing growth abroad -- continue to weigh on the economy. The associated easing of pressures on labor and product markets are expected to keep inflation contained. 
Although continuing favorable trends bolster long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy, the committee continues to believe that against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); INTEREST RATES (94%); MONETARY POLICY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (64%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (64%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); GEORGIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



708 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1481 words

HEADLINE: New Determination Is Seen Emerging in AIDS Battle 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 27 

 BODY:
It was billed as a world assembly on AIDS, but by the time three days of tumultuous meetings ended today, the leaders of Africa, often at odds and sometimes at war, had come together to dominate the session, showing a markedly new determination to fight the disease that has decimated their homelands.
 African leaders and international health experts said this week that this united approach evolved in recent weeks and months, most notably since President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria was host for a summit-level meeting of Africans in April. 
 Until then, many leaders had been in denial, trying to obscure mounting evidence that AIDS was spreading rapidly. 
Now they have numerous proposals for fighting H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and, more broadly, for taking a new look at shortcomings in national development.
But missing from this united effort and open debate was President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, the country with the largest infected population. His absence was widely noticed and described as inexplicable. Although Mr. Mbeki was in the United States this week, he sent his health minister, Mantombazana Edmie Tshabalala-Msimang, to the special session. 
In a speech, Dr. Tshabalala-Msimang -- her training included public health as well as obstetrics and gynecology -- alluded to Mr. Mbeki's questions about what causes AIDS and whether priority should be given to antiretroviral drugs in dealing with the epidemic.
While other leaders from areas hard hit by AIDS also sent their health ministers, Africa was represented by presidents and prime ministers -- even a king. 
They had seen AIDS invade their families, strike down cabinet ministers and decimate their civil services and economies. Of the 36 million people in the world infected with the virus that causes AIDS, three-fourths of them live in Africa.
So these leaders all had stories to tell this week.
For President Obasanjo, a former general, the seriousness of the epidemic became evident when AIDS invaded his nation's army. 
"When I took over the reins of government in Nigeria, H.I.V.-AIDS had not been given the type of attention it should be given," he said, looking back to his election in 1999. "It was still a sort of hush-hush affair." 
"What really spurred me on was when I got back some of our soldiers from Sierra Leone," President Obasanjo said, "and said that there should be tests carried out on them. We found that they were, on average, about 11 percent infected." That was more than twice the national rate: "That really gave me cause for alarm," he added. 
Secretary General Kofi Annan, a Ghanaian, has tried to raise the consciousness of his fellow Africans on numerous trips and in reports. He has spoken out against stigmatization and denial in dealing with AIDS, and has urged African governments to make themselves attractive to investors rather than blaming the global economy for all their economic ills. 
Gro Harlem Brundtland, a doctor and the director general of the World Health Organization, said in an interview that rising international attention to Africa -- including campaigns for cheaper drugs, for debt cancellation and for significant aid to weak public health systems -- has helped encourage African efforts. 
The falling price of vital drugs has also given many African health officials new hope. Meetings on AIDS, including one in the Security Council last year, set the stage, she said. AIDS was elevated to an issue of national security, and government leaders could no longer ignore the importance of the disease. 
Still, several leaders interviewed this week all pointed to the huge obstacles that remain.
"Over the last year, we have seen a quantum jump in the level of awareness and response to H.I.V.," said Mark Malloch-Brown, administrator of the United Nations Development Program. "The H.I.V. crisis has coincided with some pretty talented new democratically elected governments in Africa." The richer nations will be taking the lead from them, he said.
Mr. Malloch-Brown continued: "The silver lining to this problem is that it is forcing the West to engage with Africa, not just on the old basis of 'You've got problems, we want to help,' but out of a much more fundamental sense of self-interest, of a global war where -- like it or not -- the front-line generals are African leaders. It is forcing a partnership, and the West is not in the lead in this partnership. Africa is." 
Model programs for preventing and treating AIDS have been introduced by Botswana, Senegal and Uganda. Based on those and other experiences, said Dr. Peter Piot, the executive director of Unaids, international experts expect Africans to devise future programs, with the help, but not the direction, of foreign advisers. Tanzania's president, Benjamin William Mkapa, said at a news conference here today that in Africa the wars against disease and underdevelopment "must be country led and internationally supported." 
Africa and the Africans have become so prominent here this week, Dr. Brundtland said, that officials from the Caribbean and Asia who not very long ago did not want to talk about rising epidemics in their regions, are now demanding to know why they are not getting more of the world's attention. 
President Obasanjo said at a news conference on Monday that poverty was an issue everywhere, but that this should not derail a new determination to fight AIDS. "We in Nigeria are battling with other things," he said. "About 70 percent or thereabout of our people are living below the poverty line. We are battling inadequacies of power or water supply and so on. We are battling our own inadequate infrastructure. In spite of all this, we still believe that this scourge, which has taken its toll on Africa, must have our attention and our contribution." He pledged $10 million to a global fund of up to $10 billion that Secretary General Annan has called for.
Bernard Kouchner, the founder of Doctors Without Borders who is now minister of health in France, said in an interview that intellectual resistance to what are seen as western prescriptions is not new, and he predicteds that the controversy generated by Mr. Mbeki will fade. "Twenty years ago African intellectuals didn't want us to treat malaria," he said. They described the work of foreign doctors as charity or accused them of bringing colonial ideas to treating an illness for which there were traditional cures.
Now Dr. Kouchner and other Europeans are creating a system of twinning hospitals in rich countries with the best hospitals in Africa so that medicines, equipment and expertise can be shared. "Every country has some good hospitals," Dr. Kouchner said. "We can help strengthen them." Several American foundations and the Pfizer pharmaceutical company are supporting research centers in African universities and medical centers. 
President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal is one of the recently elected leaders who has been most active in promoting public health and development reforms. He has devised a strategy for plugging Africa into the global economy, known as the Omega plan, focused on investment in infrastructure, education, health and agriculture.
President Wade recently recruited a Senegalese health expert working with Unaids, Dr. Awa Marie Coll-Seck, and made her health minister. 
At a press conference on Tuesday, they explained how Senegal had contained the epidemic getting an early start, in 1986, and erasing the taboos around the disease. In a country that is 95 percent Muslim, Dr. Coll-Seck said, religious leaders as well as teachers were "trained and sensitized" to talk about sexually transmitted diseases. Women's groups were enlisted from the grassroots up into urban society. "We didn't wait for the disaster to happen," she said. 
At the United Nations Development Program, Mr. Malloch-Brown, the administrator, said that as a new phase in the fight against AIDS begins, African leaders and donors to the newly created global fund "will be out on a long limb." The anti-AIDS campaign has to work, he said. Only then will it be possible to talk about long-term partnerships. 
Mr. Malloch-Brown said he has been meeting African leaders this week and telling them that "if we come out of this with a renewed sense of trust and confidence in African leadership" the next goal is public investment in the infrastructure of Africa. For the moment, he said, richer nations shy away from building roads or other large projects because they are "too difficult, too controversial, and it always raises the red flag of corruption and mismanagement."
Paradoxically, he said, the AIDS crisis in Africa -- so damaging in the short term to foreign business interests in Africa -- may improve the investment climate in the long run if the battle is led effectively. In the joint fight against AIDS, he said, there is a chance of "a restoration of Western confidence in African leadership."

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the three-day U.N. conference on AIDS, delegates met in the General Assembly hall, as well as in passageways throughout the complex. "Over the last year," Mark Malloch-Brown of the U.N. Development Program said, "we have seen a quantum jump in the level of awareness and response to H.I.V." (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (96%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); VIRUSES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ARMIES (78%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); ANTIVIRALS (74%); ARMED FORCES (61%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (51%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: THABO MBEKI (78%) CROSSETTE, BARBARA; OBASANJO, OLUSEGUN (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (98%); NIGERIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); GHANA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) AFRICA; NIGERIA

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



709 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Senators Hear Bitter Words on Florida Vote 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
At an acrimonious hearing that showed how bitter the fight remains over the Florida election last fall, two members of the United States Civil Rights Commission strafed each other today and called each other liars. Even Katherine Harris, the Florida secretary of state, got into the act.
 Despite this hostility, senators of both parties who were listening to the exchanges tried to move beyond the Florida dispute and gave some signs that changes in the election system might yet be on the horizon. 
 The Senate Rules Committee was the staging ground for a discussion of the commission's report on the Florida balloting and bills that would funnel money to states for new election systems. It provided a platform for two members of the commission -- one appointed by Republicans, the other by Democrats -- to air their differences over whether some Florida voters were disenfranchised. 
The commission voted 6 to 2 this month to approve a report that said that blacks in Florida were at least 10 times more likely than other voters to have had their ballots rejected last Election Day.
One of the dissenting members, Abigail Thernstrom, presented her rebuttal to the report today. Relying on a statistical analysis by John Lott, an economist at Yale Law School, Ms. Thernstrom said that "voter error was the central problem in Florida, not disenfranchisement" and that the committee report was flawed and prejudicial.
"Inflated rhetoric depicting crimes for which there is no evidence undermines public confidence," Ms. Thernstrom said.
She also said the majority had withheld data from her.
Mary Frances Berry, the chairwoman of the commission, hotly denied the accusation as they sat next to each other at the witness table.
"It is an absolute falsehood," Ms. Berry said, noting that Ms. Thernstrom had asked for a disc of data and was told there was no disc but that the information was available on the Internet.
"She was not denied data," Ms. Berry said. "It makes a good story -- 'I was denied this, I was denied that.' It is a lie. I am 63 years old. I'm too old for playing games."
Ms. Thernstrom responded, "I would never publicly call a commissioner a liar, but I have just heard a lie."
Ms. Berry affirmed the findings of the report and said she was "surprised that people are so exercised" about it. She said it was clear that black voters had higher rates of problems than others, regardless of whether they were intentional.
"If I ran over you at 90 miles an hour and killed you, it doesn't matter whether I intended to or not, I still killed you," Ms. Berry said.
In another tense exchange, Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, took on the credibility of Mr. Lott, Ms. Thernstrom's statistician. Mr. Schumer, a proponent of gun control, first belittled Mr. Lott in passing as the person who had found, in Mr. Schumer's words, "The more guns, the less violence."
In prosecutorial tones, Mr. Schumer then wrung out of Mr. Lott a defeated "yeah" to the question of whether "a greater percentage of black and Hispanic people are turned away than, or don't get to vote, than white people?"
The packed hearing room broke into applause at Mr. Lott's concession, prompting Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, to gavel the room to order, saying, "It's not a rally; it's a hearing."
Ms. Harris, the Florida secretary of state, was not present but sent a statement to the committee in which she accused the commission of "crafting a battle plan for politicians interested in wielding the sword of racial division."
Two election bills the Rules Committee is considering have strong support in the Senate. Both would offer about $2.5 billion to the states over five years to upgrade their election equipment. But one bill, sponsored by Senator Dodd, and supported by all 50 Democrats, would mandate that the states take certain actions. The other, sponsored by Senators Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, and Mr. Schumer and supported by 31 Democrats, 38 Republicans and one independent, has no mandates.
Supporters of both bills indicated that some compromise could pass the Senate later this year. Mr. Schumer said the question of mandates "will work its way through the process in the next several months and in fall we can sit down and have a compromise." And John Feehery, a spokesman for House Republicans, indicated there was "some cause for optimism" in the House as well, later in the year.
Larry Sabato, an election specialist at the University of Virginia who also testified today, said in an interview: "I was pessimistic for a long time, but I've changed now, not entirely because of the Democratic takeover of the Senate, but partly because of that. As we get closer to 2002, an awful lot of senators and House members on both sides of the aisle want to be able to tell African-American voters that they've done something, whatever that something is -- money or money plus mandates."
Mr. McConnell said in an interview that he thought the shift in power in the Senate was slowing election reform. Now that Mr. Dodd is chairman of the Rules Committee, he has said he will hold hearings on the matter around the country. Mr. McConnell noted that state and national panels had already held more than 60 hearings and that no more were necessary.
"That may be important to certain parts of their base, but we know enough to move forward," Mr. McConnell said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Frances Berry, left, chairwoman of the Commission on Civil Rights, and Abigail Thernstrom, a member, disputed each other yesterday at a hearing into the commission's report on the Florida election. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WITNESSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); GUN CONTROL (73%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; DISCRIMINATION; BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (84%) UNITED STATES COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%) SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; THERNSTROM, ABIGAIL; BERRY, MARY FRANCES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



710 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: FED LOWERS RATES BY QUARTER-POINT IN 6TH CUT OF YEAR 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point today and signaled that its campaign to revive the flagging economy may be entering its final stages.
 The rate cut was the sixth by the central bank since it became clear at the beginning of the year that the economy was slowing precipitously. But the five previous reductions were all half a percentage point. In holding to a quarter-point reduction this time, the Fed suggested that it wanted to slow the pace of its response to the downturn while it waited to see the full impact of the steps it had already taken this year. 
 The move reduced the federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks -- the Fed's primary tool for influencing the economy -- to 3.75 percent from 4 percent. The rate was last that low more than seven years ago. 
Analysts said that it now seemed likely that the central bank would cut rates at least once more this year, probably by another quarter-point, at its next scheduled meeting on Aug. 21.
Economists had been nearly evenly divided as to whether the Fed would cut rates by half a point or a quarter of a point today, and the news brought a muted response from investors. 
Stock prices fell somewhat after the announcement at 2:15 p.m., then bounced up and down the rest of the day. Investors, after months of disappointing earnings reports, no longer seem to expect the Fed's moves to bring an immediate lift in corporate results. Market Place, Page C1. 
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 37.64 points, to close at 10,434.84; the Nasdaq composite index rose 10.12 points, to 2,074.74. Most bond prices fell.
The Fed's decision was intended to stimulate more economic activity by reducing borrowing costs and bucking up consumer and business confidence. It will put modest downward pressure on interest rates paid by small businesses and consumers, including those on some credit card balances, auto loans and adjustable mortgages. 
But it is not likely to have much direct effect on most mortgage rates, which are determined largely by longer-term rates set in the bond market.
In a statement this afternoon at the conclusion of a two-day meeting, the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee provided little insight into its decision, and gave only the barest of hints as to how much of an internal debate there was about the scale of the rate cut. 
Comments by Fed officials in recent weeks have suggested that one camp within the central bank was growing increasingly concerned that it not overdo the rate cuts and create a situation in which the economy overheats next year. But another camp, led by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has played down any threat from inflation and implied that there was plenty of room for further reductions.
In that sense, today's decision was cast by some analysts as a compromise.
"We assume that the F.O.M.C. was divided and that the smaller 25-basis-point move allowed a consensus to be forged," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch. A basis point is a hundredth of a percentage point.
In its statement, the Fed made clear that it was not yet declaring victory in its effort to avert a recession or promote a quick recovery if a recession has already begun. It did not contain any optimistic assessment about a possible rebound later this year and repeated the same laundry list of problems facing the economy that the Fed has emphasized after previous rate cuts.
In particular, the statement reflected Mr. Greenspan's position that inflation was not enough of a threat to restrict the Fed's ability to cut rates further if necessary. As a result, economists said, Mr. Greenspan still has leeway to fine-tune monetary policy through further quarter-point rate cuts this year.
"The patterns evident in recent months -- declining profitability and business capital spending, weak expansion of consumption and slowing growth abroad -- continue to weigh on the economy," the open market committee's statement said. "The associated easing of pressures on labor and product markets are expected to keep inflation contained."
Using its standard language indicating its expectation that it will cut rates further, the central bank said the economic risks "are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future."
Still, the decision to hold the rate cut to a quarter-point was read by most analysts as evidence that the Fed now wanted to give its cumulative rate cuts of 2.75 percentage points in the federal funds rate time to work. Changes in monetary policy typically take at least six months to have their full impact.
The central bank also cut its less frequently used discount rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve system to 3.25 percent from 3.5 percent.
"We now expect the Fed to sit back and let the policy actions of the first half of the year work their magic," said Richard Yamarone, director of economic research at Argus Research in New York. "From here on out, we are likely to be in a wait-and-see mode. In the event that the trend of weaker economic activity picks up steam, then a few more 25 basis point cuts should be expected."
The economy has been especially hard to read in recent months, but there are few clear-cut signs that it is about to get back on the track of strong growth that characterized most of the last few years.
Consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of economic activity, has held up reasonably well. The housing market has been particularly robust, and consumer confidence seems to have stabilized.
But layoffs seem to be mounting, and the industrial sector of the economy is deteriorating steadily. Industrial production has fallen for eight consecutive months, corporate profits are tumbling, companies are reducing their investments in new technology and foreign markets for American products and services are becoming weaker.
The economy should benefit in the second half of the year not just from the accumulated punch of the rate reductions already made by the Fed, but also from the first stages of the $1.35 trillion tax cut signed into law this month by President Bush. Most taxpayers will receive rebate checks of up to $300 for single people and $600 for couples the next few months, and income tax rates will be reduced starting on July 1.
"Most of the people in the economic community believe that we're going to see a rekindling of substantial growth rates in the third and into the fourth quarter," Paul H. O'Neill, the Treasury secretary, said in a speech in Detroit.
The economy grew at a 1.3 percent annual pace in the first three months of the year, and some economists say the economy may prove not to have grown at all in the second quarter -- or even contracted, bringing to an end the longest expansion on record. The last recession ended in March 1991.
The outlook depends to a great degree on how quickly companies begin investing again in computers, communications equipment and more efficient equipment for their factories. A boom in capital investment in the second half of the 1990's was one of the primary drivers of the strong economy, and the drop in investment this year has been one of the main anchors dragging the economy down.
Some economists say that in many cases companies overinvested the last few years based on unrealistic expectations that sales and profits would continue to surge. As a result, they said, it could be a long time before investment picks up again and lower interest rates are not likely to do much to accelerate the process.

GRAPHIC: Charts: "All Quiet on Wall St."The Federal Reserve has cut interest rates six times this year, but investors have only reacted very favorably when the cuts were unexpected. CHANGE IN DOW INDUSTRIALS ON DAYS RATES WERE CUT Jan. 3*: +2.81%Jan. 31: +0.06%March 20: -2.39%April 18*: +3.91%May 15: -0.04%Yesterday: -0.36% *Unexpected cut.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. A1) "A Smaller Cut"Yesterday, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the sixth time this year, but this time the cut was only a quarter of a percentage point -- bringing the federal funds target rate to 3.75 percent. Graph shows the Discount rate, Prime rate, and Federal funds target rate stats since 1989. (Sources: Federal Reserve; Associated Press)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); BOND MARKETS (86%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (63%); SMALL BUSINESS (62%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



711 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Schundler Talks of Unity, But Grin Says 'I Told You' 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, June 27 

 BODY:
Bret D. Schundler's campaign car was at a standstill in Lower Manhattan traffic at 4 p.m. today, when he burned out his third cell-phone battery of the day. Mr. Schundler, the mayor of Jersey City, won a surprise victory in Tuesday's Republican primary for New Jersey governor, and suddenly it seemed that half the world wanted a word with him. 
 After rising at 5 a.m. to do three hours of radio call-in shows, newspaper interviews and television appearances, then being showered with accolades at a New Jersey Republican Party luncheon, Mr. Schundler careered into Manhattan for a taping of CNN's "Crossfire" from 3 to 3:30 p.m. and, ever the optimist, headed to a photo opportunity scheduled for 4 p.m. in Jersey City. 
 But even on the day when you're the hottest political candidate in the country, there is no easy way through the Holland Tunnel. As his driver drummed his fingers on the steering wheel, Mr. Schundler took the phone from an aide and paused to share one of his trademark musings, this time about how cell phones had infringed on personal time by allowing work to follow people anywhere. 
"But right now, it's a little incredible to think of all the work we have ahead of us," Mr. Schundler said, before a series of calls from well-wishers, fund-raisers and even a Right to Life organizer who wanted him to fine tune his responses to questions about abortion. 
The traffic jam may have been the only snag in Mr. Schundler's first full day as the Republican nominee.
Fresh from his triumph over nearly the entire state Republican establishment, and a bit drained from three hours sleep, he tried to capitalize on his moment of political stardom by laying out his conservative platform for school choice, tax reductions and ending tolls on the Garden State Parkway. He also tried to make a pre-emptive strike against Democrats who portray him as an extremist because he favors expanded rights for gun owners but opposes abortion; he vowed his views would not prevent him from vigorously enforcing the state's existing laws.
Along the way, Mr. Schundler, whose confident manner has struck some as arrogance, had a hard time concealing his satisfaction that he had defied all the political experts and was reaping the spoils. 
Mr. Schundler, whose office displays a picture of himself and his wife outside the fence at the White House, was invited by President Bush to be a featured guest at a Republican fund-raiser in Washington today. (He declined because he had a previously scheduled event with New Jersey business leaders, but sent his wife in his place).
Most significant, Mr. Schundler was hailed by some of the leaders of state's Republican Party, who promised to unite behind him. When asked what it was like to be praised by some who had written him off as a fringe candidate, Mr. Schundler flashed a smile that suggested it was hard not to say "I told you so."
"It's encouraging," he said. "And it's humbling. A lot of people have put their trust in you, so now you don't want to blow it."
Many political experts consider Mr. McGreevey to be a slight favorite, but Mr. Schundler relishes the role of underdog and has overcome surprisingly steep odds before.
In 1992, after working as an account executive for Salomon Brothers in New Jersey, Mr. Schundler undertook a campaign many people considered a lark: he became a Republican candidate for mayor of Jersey City, a community where more than 90 percent of registered voters are Democrats. After a 19-way special election, Mr. Schundler became the city's first Republican mayor in 75 years. 
Democrats criticized him for running up the city's debt by using extensive bonding and tax abatements to spur waterfront development, but the decaying neighborhoods and blighted downtown have shown undeniable signs of revitalization.
Mr. Schundler handily won re-election twice and became the darling of Newt Gingrich and other Washington Republicans because of his ability to espouse conservative social views and business-friendly economic policies while still attracting votes in the urban centers, whose residents typically vote Democratic. 
In a sign that Mr. Schundler intends to compete on that turf, he pointed out that in his last election he won the majority of votes in five of the city's eight housing projects.
"We're not conceding one single urban vote to Jim McGreevey," he said.
Mr. Schundler, 42, lives in Jersey City with his wife, Lynn, a law professor at Seton Hall, their son, Hans Otto, 3, and daughter, Shaylin, 8. He was born in Morristown, N.J., the youngest of nine children and was an all-state football player at Westfield High School.
He became an evangelical Christian as a teenager, and after earning a sociology degree from Harvard in 1981, he considered a career as a minister before his interest in urban affairs led him to politics as a Democrat. His primary opponent, former United States Representative Bob Franks, made much of the fact that Mr. Schundler was a former Democrat who worked on former Senator Gary Hart's campaign for president in 1984. But Mr. Schundler said that he grew dismayed by the Democrats' reliance on extensive government programs and became intrigued by Ronald Reagan's brand of populism. He registered as a Republican in 1991. 
On the campaign trail, he is quick-witted and tireless -- even critics who accuse him of showing off his intelligence concede that he has an impressively broad grasp of policy. The pastiche of cultural and political influences that shaped Mr. Schundler have also given him an unusual grab bag of references on the campaign trail. When he took the stage Tuesday to make his acceptance speech, Mr. Schundler used the the curious greeting of "y'all"; the next day, he included casual, and incisive, references to the scriptures, Martin Luther King Jr. and Aristotle. 
Even on this victory lap of a day, as he savored the attention and newfound friends, the iconoclast in Mr. Schundler could not help but view the campaign as a chance to take on new political adversaries.
"I don't think there's a political figure in New Jersey who has more members of special interest groups against him, or gotten more votes by doing so" he said with a smile. "And this race is just getting started." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); ABORTION (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; SCHUNDLER, BRET D (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



712 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Bridgestone/Firestone to Close Tire Plant at Center of Huge Recall 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 27 

 BODY:
Still reeling from a huge tire recall and the end of its long relationship with the Ford Motor Company, Bridgestone/Firestone Inc. said today that it planned to close one of its biggest tire factories.
 The factory, in Decatur, Ill., was singled out last August when Firestone recalled about 6.5 million tires after growing concerns about crashes of Ford Explorers equipped with its products. About 1,500 employees, mostly union workers and many with more than 20 years of experience, will probably lose their jobs. 
 The closing of the plant, which can produce more than seven million tires a year and accounts for 10 percent of the company's production, underscores just how difficult business has become for Bridgestone/Firestone, which is facing an industrywide downturn and persistent questions about the safety of its tires. 
Company officials said the decision to close the factory was driven solely by economics and not because Decatur had once been cited as a major source of problem tires.
"This is about balancing supply and demand," said John McQuade, vice president for manufacturing operations at Bridgestone/Firestone, a unit of the Bridgestone Corporation of Japan. "This has nothing to do with the quality or professionalism of our Decatur employees."
The company said that it had too much capacity and that Decatur was the oldest of its eight plants and would be the most expensive to upgrade. Firestone spent about $60 million in improvements for the sprawling plant in recent years.
At a news conference in Tokyo today, where the plant closing was first announced, Hiroshi Kanai, the managing director in charge of finance at Bridgestone, said it would be too costly to retain a 59-year-old plant.
"You are talking about a plant where if you don't do anything, the roof will fall down," he said.
Bridgestone/Firestone said it would take a $210 million charge to cover the cost of closing the Decatur factory. To complete the shutdown by December, as planned, the company must negotiate terms with the United Steelworkers of America, which represents the tire makers.
Bridgestone/Firestone laid off about 1,100 factory workers, or about 10 percent of its work force in the United States, seven months ago. And a month ago, Ford announced that it would spend $3 billion to replace about 13 million Firestone tires because of safety concerns.
Ford's action led to a sharp rebuke from Firestone, which insists its tires are safe. Firestone executives said Ford ignored evidence that indicated the instability of the Ford Explorer played a crucial role in bringing about 174 deaths in numerous accidents the last few years.
Firestone also decided to stop selling tires to Ford, ending a century-old relationship. Because of the corporate breakup, demand for Firestone tires has plummeted, and consumers appear to be losing confidence in the Firestone brand. 
Wall Street analysts said they had been bracing for today's announcement.
"I always thought that from the time Firestone severed its relations with Ford that at least one plant had to go," said Stephen Haggerty, a tire industry analyst at Merrill Lynch. "My sense is the Firestone brand is weakening in the replacement market, and this could lead to the need for a second plant's closing."
Bridgestone/Firestone, which is based in Nashville, has said it has no plans to abandon the Firestone brand.
Company officials also say the Decatur closing will improve efficiency at some of the company's seven other tire plants in the United States.
The steel workers union said today that it would try to prevent the plant's closing. But union officials were not optimistic.
"We would like to avert a shutdown, but if we can't, we'd like to negotiate the best package we can," said Roger Gates, president of the United Steelworkers Local 713 in Decatur.
Several workers said they were unfairly blamed. 
"I kind of saw this coming," said Randy Adkins, a 49-year-old tire maker who has worked at the plant for 29 years. "I've been preparing myself. I wanted to get to 30 years and then get out because the 12-hour days have not been good for anyone. It's 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. and that's taxing."
Mr. Gates said that the workers were simply the lowest on the totem pole.
"Ford put the blame on Firestone and then Firestone scapegoated the Decatur plant," Mr. Gates said. "And now, we're the ones who pay the piper." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TIRES (92%); TIRE MFG (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); PRODUCT RECALLS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); TIRE DEALERS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%) TIRES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AUTOMOBILE SAFETY FEATURES AND DEFECTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; RECALLS AND BANS OF PRODUCTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AND OTHER LIGHT TRUCKS 

COMPANY: BRIDGESTONE CORP (98%); FORD MOTOR CO (96%); BRIDGESTONE AMERICAS HOLDING INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: BRIDGESTONE/FIRESTONE INC; FORD MOTOR CO 

TICKER: 5108 (TSE) (98%); FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (98%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); NAICS326212 TIRE RETREADING (93%); SIC7534 TIRE RETREADING & REPAIR SHOPS (93%) SIC3011 TIRES; SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%) DECATUR (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



713 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Is Said To Float Plan To Save Deal 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN with PAUL MELLER 

 BODY:
General Electric has held informal discussions with European regulators about selling a minority stake in its aviation financing business in hopes of winning approval for its proposed acquisition of Honeywell International, executives close to the talks said yesterday.
 The move is an about-face for G.E., which said last week that the chance of the deal moving forward was "zero" and that the proposal it submitted to the European Commission was final. 
 The commission has indicated it will block the $45 billion transaction unless G.E. agrees to modify its offer.
Yesterday, Paul H. O'Neill, the United States Treasury secretary, attacked the European Commission, saying that it would be "off the wall" for European regulators to block the deal, which American regulators have already approved. The commission plans to rule on the deal at its meeting on Tuesday, although it has until July 12 to submit its final decision. 
In an informal proposal yesterday to European regulators, G.E. lawyers discussed selling up to 20 percent of GE Capital Aviation Services, also known as Gecas, which owns and leases a fleet of 950 aircraft, the executives said. The European Commission has said that GE Capital could unfairly push its clients to buy G.E.'s aviation products over those of competitors like Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies, by offering discounted package deals. 
European regulators previously asked G.E. to sell a stake in GE Capital to a competitor or to the public, a proposal that was rejected. G.E. is now floating the idea of selling 20 percent to a noncompetitor like a financial institution, thus allowing it to keep the aviation unit's earnings on its books, executives said. The investor would get seats on the unit's board, the executives said.
It is unclear whether G.E.'s latest proposal will satisfy the Europeans. An executive close to the company said yesterday: "I can't tell if the Europeans think this is enough. I'm still pessimistic. We can't offer much more. At some point, the deal's just not worth doing."
Another executive close to the company said yesterday that it had already put out a feeler to Citigroup about buying the stake. Citigroup has its own aircraft leasing business through its global equipment finance unit. A spokeswoman for Citigroup declined to comment about the company's possible involvement.
G.E.'s latest proposal is dependent on an agreement with regulators that would permit it to divest itself of less of Honeywell's avionics business, the executives said. G.E previously offered to sell parts of Honeywell that generate $2.2 billion in annual sales.
A spokesman for G.E. confirmed the discussions but declined to comment on their details. "I'm not going to characterize the probabilities," said Gary Sheffer, the spokesman. "We said last week that we were pessimistic and that we would continue to advocate our proposal. That's what we continue to do."
Executives close to G.E. said the company would submit a modified proposal only if it got an assurance in advance that regulators would approve the deal.
Gotz Drauz, the director of the European Commission's merger task force under Commissioner Mario Monti, also declined to provide details of the talks. "At this late stage, it would have to be a fully satisfactory proposal," he said. "We agreed with G.E. that because there is so much speculation, we will keep confidential any late talks that may or may not take place."
In a letter sent on Tuesday to Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat from West Virginia and the chairman of a Senate subcommittee on aviation, Mr. Monti suggested that selling a piece of the aviation financing unit would satisfy the commission.
"The only condition would have been to combine these limited aerospace divestitures with the implementation of a structural undertaking on Gecas, without putting in question the control by G.E.," Mr. Monti wrote.
If a deal is forged, it would not be the first time American companies adjusted a merger proposal at the 11th hour to satisfy European regulators. Boeing's $14 billion merger with the McDonnell Douglas Corporation in 1997 was almost blocked by European regulators until Boeing agreed to drop its exclusive aircraft-supply agreements with AMR's American Airlines unit, Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines.
Shares of Honeywell rose 2.2 percent, or 80 cents, to $37 yesterday on speculation that the deal might be approved. Shares of G.E. fell 1 percent, or 53 cents, to $48.26. 
American officials have become increasingly vocal about their dissatisfaction with the European Commission's stance.
After a speech to the Economic Club of Detroit, Mr. O'Neill said that the European Commission had too much power. "They are the closest thing you can find to an autocratic organization that can successfully impose their will on things that one would think are outside their scope of attention," he said.
"When I see things like this, they're irritating," Mr. O'Neill added, "and yes, I'd like to say they need to stop, but they will stop in time." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROVALS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEASING INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); AIRLINES (73%); EQUIPMENT FINANCING (73%); AVIONICS (73%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (71%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (97%); CITIGROUP INC (82%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (54%); PRATT & WHITNEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; GE CAPITAL AVIATION SERVICES INC; EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (97%); GEC (LSE) (97%); GE (SWX) (97%); GE (NYSE) (97%); C (NYSE) (82%); C (BMV) (82%); 8710 (TSE) (82%); HON (NYSE) (58%); HON (LSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (54%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; MELLER, PAUL; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (91%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



714 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

U.N. Adopts AIDS War Plan, Citing an Array of Threats
The General Assembly passed an ambitious declaration outlining how the world should proceed against AIDS and framing the epidemic as not only a medical threat but also a political, human rights and economic danger. Concluding a three-day special session on the pandemic, the world body appealed to nations and industry to provide the billions of dollars to underwrite the effort. A1

The Security Council, without dissent, nominated Secretary General Kofi Annan for a second term. A14

Powell in Middle East
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell arrived in Jerusalem to press the Israeli government to move forward with peace efforts and to urge the Palestinians to keep the situation calm. A12

U.N. Court Rebukes U.S.
The International Court of Justice said the United States had flouted international law when Arizona executed two German brothers in 1999. The case was brought by Germany, which asserted that the United States breached its international obligations when it ignored the world court request for a last-minute stay for one brother. A10

Japan Warns U.S. on Economy
Japanese officials paving the way for a first visit to Washington by Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi have warned the Bush administration that some of Mr. Koizumi's economic overhaul plans may worsen Japan's economic troubles in the next few years, with potentially major effects on the American economy. A7

North Koreans' Fate Debated
Chinese and United Nations officials met to discuss seven illegal immigrants from North Korea, who passed their second day in the Beijing office of the United Nations refugee agency, where they are seeking political asylum. A4

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A12-21

U.S. Moves to Scrap All Cold War MX Missiles
The Pentagon will ask Congress for permission to begin scrapping all 50 nuclear-tipped Peacekeeper missiles as a possible first step toward a unilateral reduction in the nation's nuclear arsenal, part of an effort to build a missile shield and establish a new strategic framework with Russia. A1

Payment to Roger Clinton
Congressional investigators are studying a $50,000 payment to Roger Clinton, left, the former president's half brother, from a company controlled by children of a convicted heroin trafficker, Rosario Gambino. No pardon was granted, but the Clinton White House had told the Justice Department that it was considering one. A1

Patients' Bill Clears Hurdle
Senators reached a bipartisan agreement on a thorny issue in the patients' rights bill. Under the deal, most employers who offer health benefits would be shielded from lawsuits. A1

Deal on Religious Charities
The White House and Congressional Republicans agreed on changes to a bill to expand federal financing of religious groups' charitable work. A23

Agency Head's Expensive Trip
Joe Allbaugh, director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, turned a routine business trip into a $340,000 flight by using a customized Boeing 747 designed to serve as a command center in national emergencies. A20

No Breakout of Homeless Data
The Census Bureau, in a reversal of its 1990 practice, said it would not provide states and cities with the figures on their homeless populations, which nationally total 280,527, up from 228,621 in 1990. A16

Courting a G.O.P. Veteran
California Republicans are encouraging the departing mayor of Los Angeles, Richard J. Riordan, 71, to run for governor against the Democratic incumbent, Gray Davis, next year. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Ferrer Joins Mayoral Race Hailing 'Other New York'
Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, moved to separate himself from his three Democratic rivals, suggesting that they were "sheep" who had routinely supported the policies of Mayor Giuliani to the detriment of "the other New York," which he said he would champion. B1

Sharpton to End Fast
The Rev. Al Sharpton, at least 25 pounds lighter from a jailhouse fast he began on May 29 to protest the Navy's use of Vieques island as a bombing range, plans to end it today when three New York City officials jailed with him are released, Mr. Sharpton's lawyer said. Mr. Sharpton is serving a 90-day sentence; the others were given 40 days. B3

Backing for Blood Donor Plan
The New York State health commissioner backed an F.D.A. proposal that would restrict blood donations from people who might have been exposed to mad cow disease in Europe. B4

OBITUARIES B8

ARTS E1-12

CIRCUITS G1-10

SPORTS D1-8

Effort to Save Boxer's Life
Beethavean Scottland, 26, who sustained a severe head injury in a bout Tuesday night aboard the Intrepid aircraft carrier, was in very critical condition after brain surgery. D1

Youthful No. 1 in N.B.A. Draft
Kwame Brown, a 19-year-old, 6-foot-11-inch forward from Glynn Hill Academy in Brunswick, Ga., was picked by the Washington Wizards, the only high school player ever chosen first in the N.B.A. draft. In fact, three of the first four players taken were high school seniors, and the other player was from Spain. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Fed Cuts Rates Again
The Fed reduced its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point -- its sixth consecutive cut, though the others were all half a point -- and signaled that its campaign to revive the flagging economy might be entering its final stages. A1

The weakened economy is beginning to eat into the projected federal budget surplus. C1

G.E. Pressing Europe on Deal
General Electric has held informal discussions with European regulators about selling a minority stake in its aviation financing business in hopes of winning approval for its acquisition of Honeywell International, executives close to the talks said. C1

Firestone Tire Plant Closing
Bridgestone/Firestone, reeling from a massive tire recall and the end of its decades-long relationship with Ford, said it would close one of its biggest factories, in Decatur, Ill. About 1,500 employees, mostly union workers, stand to lose their jobs. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The Fed turns less aggressive; tense Macedonia; wrong signal on money laundering.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E6
TV Listings E11
Crossword E10
Weather D8
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (90%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (85%); IMMIGRATION (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); CHARITIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LITIGATION (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (68%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (62%); RELIGION (60%); PARDONS (60%); HEROIN (50%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL COURT OF JUSTICE (83%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (77%); BEIJING, CHINA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ISRAEL (92%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CHINA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



715 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 78 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
CVS EXPECTS LOWER EARNINGS IN ITS SECOND QUARTER

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The drugstore operator CVS Corporation said yesterday that its earnings for the second quarter and the year would be lower than expected because of a decline in sales related to the economic slowdown. CVS said it expected earnings for the quarter ended June 30 to be 48 cents a share. That is up from the 46 cents a share reported for the period in 2000, but lower than earlier predictions of profits of 52 cents to 53 cents a share. CVS is based in Woonsocket, R.I.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%) DRUGSTORES; SALES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: CVS CAREMARK CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: CVS CORP 

TICKER: CVS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (94%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (94%) SIC5912 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: RHODE ISLAND, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



716 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business Briefing Falling Unemployment 

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The jobless rate has dropped more in New York City than in any other big metropolis over the last year, the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics reported yesterday. 
The unemployment rate in the city has dropped by 0.6 percentage points, from 5.5 percent in May 2000 to 4.9 percent in May 2001, the bureau said. Two other major metropolitan areas -- which the bureau defines as those with more than one million residents in 1990 -- had declines of 0.5 points: Indianapolis and Riverside, Calif. Because of the national economic slowdown, unemployment rates have risen in many cities. The biggest increase was in Charlotte, N.C.; the jobless rate rose by 2.3 percentage points, to 5.3 percent. Leslie Eaton (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (95%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); CITIES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); RIVERSIDE, CA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



717 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Japan Is Resisting Following the Fed on Rates 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 27 

 BODY:
Betting that the Federal Reserve would reduce interest rates today, putting irresistible pressure on the Bank of Japan to further loosen its own monetary policy, traders have bid Japanese government bond futures to record highs this week.
 But some economists here doubt that the Fed's decision to lower rates a quarter-point will have any impact on the Japanese bank, and the bank's governor, Masaru Hayami, has certainly made every effort to squelch the notion that the board will move this week. 
 "I think the chances that they ease monetary policy are not very high," said Robert Alan Feldman, chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter in Tokyo.
Nonetheless, the bank is being prodded by a steady stream of grim data emerging from the Japanese economy. The bank's own influential Tankan survey of business conditions, to be reported on Monday, is likely to reinforce the trend. And Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi's plans to radically overhaul the banking system, government budget allocations and a variety of other programs are putting pressure on the central bank even before any have become law because they would probably increase unemployment. 
The bank is trying to resist the pressure. Mr. Hayami recently compared Japan's economy to a potted plant drowning in too much water (a reference to liquidity) but lacking adequate sunshine and fertilizer (meaning structural and regulatory reform). The Bank of Japan maintains a huge pool of money for banks to draw on for lending, but banks are wary of making loans, and borrowers are trying to reduce their debts.
At a meeting last week, the government's Council on Economic and Fiscal Reform unveiled a blueprint for Mr. Koizumi's promised reforms, including a polite plea to the bank to do its part to help set the economy back on its feet.
Mr. Hayami reacted tartly. "On Page 6 of the guidelines it says, 'we expect flexible, quantitative easing' -- but deciding monetary policy is the responsibility for the Bank of Japan's policy board members," Mr. Hayami said, according to minutes of the meeting.
The bank is loath to loosen too much, lest it relieve the pressure on other policy makers to take the painful steps needed to revive the sagging economy. "There are a lot of metaphors for this these days, but I prefer a medical one," Mr. Feldman said. "A transfusion is not enough, surgery is not enough -- you have to have them both together. In this case, monetary policy will make the patient look better for a while, but it won't cure him."
None of the council's guidelines have been translated into concrete legislation, and many gaps remain. For instance, the guidelines call for the tax-financed agency that will buy bad loans from Japanese banks to try to recover the full loan amounts based on a debtor's potential for recovery. But they say nothing of what the corporation should do with debtors that are beyond saving.
"This is a dog that didn't bark," Mr. Feldman said of the guidelines, "and now investors want to know if it has teeth."
Two other factors argue against a move, at least this week.
One is the timing of the release of the Tankan index next Monday. Policy board members do not get the data in advance, and the bank goes to extensive lengths to keep the figures secure, locking the officials who collate it in a room starting at 3 a.m. to prepare the data for release at 8:30 a.m. The board would be unlikely to undermine such precautions by moving just beforehand.
The other is Mr. Koizumi's trip to the United States, his first, to meet President Bush on Saturday. A move before then could be construed as an attempt to curry American favor for the visit, which would be politically unpalatable domestically. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FUTURES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (74%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (66%); FOREIGN LENDING (64%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: HAYAMI, MASARU; STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



718 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: A New Ethanol Bill 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Ethanol Plan Fails to Reduce Use of Gasoline" (front page, June 21): While many of us are disappointed that the flexible fuel program has not yet realized its full potential, now is not the time to abandon it. 
 I have joined with Senators Tom Daschle and Richard G. Lugar on legislation requiring that a small but growing portion of the nation's fuel include renewable fuels like ethanol or biodiesel. 
Our legislation would create a sustainable environment for private investment in new ethanol production and distribution. The production and use of ethanol would more than triple over the next decade. Americans would benefit from substantial reductions in costly oil imports, reduced hydrocarbon emissions and a revitalized rural economy. 
It is time that Americans decreased dependency on costly imported petroleum, put economic strategies into effect to reduce greenhouse gases, and expanded alternative markets for our farmers and ranchers.

E. BENJAMIN NELSON
U.S. Senator from Nebraska
Omaha, June 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (92%); BIOFUELS (91%); ETHANOL (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMISSIONS (88%); VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS (88%); CLIMATE CHANGE (88%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); GREENHOUSE GASES (85%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (83%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (73%); IMPORT TRADE (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (56%); BEN NELSON (56%); DICK LUGAR (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (65%) NEBRASKA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



719 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: Fujimori Is Wined and Dined by Tokyo's Powerful 

BYLINE:  By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 27 

 BODY:
Not long ago, Dr. Torao Tokuda, a wealthy member of Parliament, invited about 15 of his colleagues to an exclusive Tokyo restaurant with geishas, promising that they would meet a "very intriguing" person.
 When the legislators arrived, they encountered the outspoken, nationalist governor of Tokyo, Shintaro Ishihara, who they assumed was the man they had come to meet. 
 But he was not, and as the drinking got under way, in walked the real guest of honor, a new resident of Japan who has become the darling of the wealthy, nationalistic political set of a country desperately in search of heroes these days: the former president of Peru, Alberto K. Fujimori.
Mr. Fujimori, who fled to Japan in November after revelations of rampant corruption and abuse of power in his government, may be widely despised in Peru, where the Congress has declared him "morally unfit" to govern, but he is as popular as ever here. 
And while his former spy chief was picked up in Venezuela this week and sent home for trial, Mr. Fujimori has been living here in comfort -- his expenses reportedly paid by Dr. Tokuda -- and he remains well protected by a secure web of political connections.
Several Japanese lawmakers who attended the gathering, which took place in February at the Fukudaya restaurant, said Dr. Tokuda had toasted Mr. Fujimori, saying the occasion was intended to form a support group for the deposed leader.
The legislators, who asked that they not be identified, said Governor Ishihara, too, gave a speech praising Mr. Fujimori as a "splendid individual" who he said was the victim of a diabolical scheme by the United States to unseat him.
"Japan has a responsibility to protect Mr. Fujimori, a son of Japanese immigrants, who was the first person of Japanese descent to lead a foreign country," the politicians recalled Mr. Ishihara saying.
The arrest and extradition this week of the man who at one time was Mr. Fujimori's most trusted aide, Vladimiro Montesinos, has placed new pressure on Japan to hand over Mr. Fujimori for trial, with Peru calling its ambassador home on Wednesday for consultations.
Mr. Montesinos, who used to collaborate closely with the Central Intelligence Agency, is facing myriad charges, including trafficking in arms and drugs, laundering money, directing death squad activities and rigging Mr. Fujimori's re-election last year. If convicted, Mr. Montesinos could spend the rest of his life in prison. Prosecutors have said they expect him to implicate Mr. Fujimori in an effort to gain a lighter sentence, and Peruvian officials are hoping that Mr. Montesinos will disclose the full extent of the Fujimori government's corruption.
But the Japanese government repeated this week that it would deny any request to send the former president back to Peru. 
Japan, which does not usually extradite its citizens, says it considers Mr. Fujimori a Japanese citizen because his name was entered in a family register in Japan after his birth, which Mr. Fujimori has always asserted was in Peru soon after his parents moved there. Birth in Japan would have made him ineligible to be Peru's president.
Moreover, Japan has no extradition treaty with Peru.
So now, not only is Mr. Fujimori secure in his new life in Japan, but he has also become something of a hero for what is proudly regarded as his decisive leadership of Peru. Over the course of his decade in power, Mr. Fujimori, who was often ready to back up his will with force, rejuvenated a deeply troubled economy and crushed two leftist insurgencies.
He is also greatly admired for his daring rescue of hostages seized by one of the insurgent groups at the Japanese diplomatic residence in Lima in 1997 by ordering military commandos to storm the residence.
"I am proud of former President Fujimori," said a Parliament member who attended the February gathering, "because he achieved something no other Japanese has ever done and may never do again. I am not in a position to judge whether his government was corrupt, but I have a feeling of strong sympathy for him that if he returns to Peru he will be in danger."
John Nathan, a professor of Japanese culture at the University of California at Santa Barbara, said that for many Japanese, especially "this group of wealthy, patriotic, nationalistic men who support him, Fujimori is kind of a folk hero, a source of considerable pride, at a time when Japan is searching its own identity."
"Fujimori is a refugee who fled Peru under questionable circumstances," said Mr. Nathan, who travels frequently to Japan, "but when he walks into a room in Japan, you can feel the excitement. There is a buzz. They see in Mr. Fujimori the type of strong leader Japan has long desired."
Some political analysts attribute Japan's infatuation with Mr. Fujimori partly to the fact that many Japanese know very little about the charges of corruption and abuses that have been levied against his government.
"There's been little reported in Japan about the dark side of Mr. Fujimori's government," said Kei ichi Tsunekawa, professor of Latin American politics at the University of Tokyo, "and people here don't have enough information to properly gauge him."
Mr. Fujimori owes much of his popularity here to his rescue of the hostages in 1997. At the time, Peruvians and foreign governments had nothing but praise for Mr. Fujimori for carrying out the raid with so few casualties among the hostages and rescuers.
But Hidetaka Ogura, a former Japanese hostage who was freed in the raid, said in a recent interview that the hostage crisis could have been resolved peacefully without force, and he sharply criticized Mr. Fujimori and the Peruvian military for executing guerrilla hostage takers who he said had tried to surrender.
Mr. Ogura, who worked for the Japanese Embassy in Peru and often translated for Japanese politicians who went to visit Mr. Fujimori, described the former president as an "emperor without clothes" who was heavily dependent on his aides.
"I think Fujimori should go back to Peru and explain to the people exactly what happened during his rule," Mr. Ogura said. "That's the responsible, Japanese thing to do."
But no one expects Mr. Fujimori to return to his birthplace anytime soon, if ever.
Mr. Fujimori, who did not respond to numerous requests by telephone and letter for an interview, has said in the past that he plans to remain in Japan for an indefinite period.
People close to the former president say he passes his days mainly in solitude in a luxury apartment here writing his memoirs and learning to adapt to life as a regular citizen.
Several members of Parliament, who met Mr. Fujimori at the February reception, said Dr. Tokuda, who owns a chain of 170 hospitals in Japan, has been paying Mr. Fujimori's living expenses.
Dr. Tokuda and Mr. Ishihara, the governor, both declined requests for interviews. The lawmakers said that they were not necessarily supporters of Mr. Fujimori and that they had attended the reception because Dr. Tokuda had been a major contributor to their political campaigns.
The legislators said they had been surprised when Mr. Fujimori made a speech in fluent Japanese at the reception and later confessed that he had in the past pretended not to understand Japanese in order "to hear what people really think." 
They said the bill for the evening was about two million yen, or roughly $17,000, which Dr. Tokuda paid.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 30, 2001

 CORRECTION:
A photograph with an article on Thursday about Alberto Fujimori, the ousted president of Peru, who now lives in Japan, carried an erroneous credit. It was obtained from Flash magazine in Tokyo; it was not taken by The Associated Press.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peru's former president, Alberto Fujimori, at table, second from right, was lavishly feted in February by politicians including Gov. Shintaro Ishihara of Tokyo, seated at center, and Torao Tokuda, far left. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EXTRADITION (89%); POLITICS (89%); CORRUPTION (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); SENTENCING (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); ETHICS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); MONEY LAUNDERING (69%); IMMIGRATION (68%); ESPIONAGE (67%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); JAIL SENTENCING (62%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (62%); FAMILY (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PERU; EXTRADITION; ETHICS 

PERSON: SIMS, CALVIN; FUJIMORI, ALBERTO K; MONTESINOS, VLADIMIRO; TOKUDA, TORAO (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%) PERU (97%); JAPAN (95%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) PERU; JAPAN; 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



720 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fed Cuts Interest Rates In 6th Reduction This Year
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by a quarter of a percentage point and signaled that its campaign to revive the economy might be entering its final stages.
 The rate cut was the sixth this year. In holding to a quarter-point reduction, the Fed suggested that it wanted to slow the pace of its response to the downturn while it waits to see the full effect of its earlier steps. Page A1. 

Some economists in Japan doubt that the Fed's decision will have any effect on Japan's interest rates. World Business, Section W.

Schering-Plough President Quits
Schering-Plough, which has had repeated quality-control problems at its factories, said that its president and chief operating officer was resigning. Raul E. Cesan, 53, will step down on July 15. Mr. Cesan, who will also leave the board, has been responsible for manufacturing operations since 1994. Shares of Schering-Plough fell $1.67, to $36.98. C4.

More Job Cuts at Lucent and JDS
Lucent Technologies and JDS Uniphase plan even more job cuts than previously announced, heightening concern over weakness in the telecommunications industry. C4.

Tyson and IBP Recommit to Merger
Tyson Foods and IBP announced that they had settled their differences and recommitted themselves to a $2.7 billion merger. C6.

Stocks End Mixed After Fed Move
Blue-chip stocks fell modestly, while technology shares edged up after the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 37.64 points, or 0.4 percent, to 10,434.84, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 5.69 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,211.07. The Nasdaq composite index rose 10.12 points, or 0.5 percent, to 2,074.74. C9.

Japan Warns U.S. About Policies
Japanese officials have warned the Bush administration that some of the president's plans are likely to worsen Japan's economic troubles over the next few years, with potentially major effects on the American economy. A7.

WebMD Executive Moving to AOL
Patricia Fili-Krushel, who stepped down as president of the ABC television network in April 2000 to become chief executive of WebMD's consumer Internet operation, will become executive vice president for human resources at AOL Time Warner. WebMD said that Roger Holstein, an executive vice president, would succeed Ms. Fili-Krushel. C4.

Saudis Open Gas Fields to Foreigners
Saudi Arabia radically reshaped its energy industry this month, opening potentially vast natural gas fields to foreign oil companies in an effort to jolt awake an economy that fails to provide enough jobs for the kingdom's booming population. World Business, Section W.

Refineries May Avoid Blackouts
California oil refineries are expected to be granted an exemption from possible power shutdowns under a plan that the state's Public Utilities Commission will vote on today. C8.

Profit Rises 34% at General Mills
General Mills' fiscal fourth-quarter earnings rose 34 percent, buoyed by a gain from an insurance settlement and new products. C2.

Internet Directory Trims Its Ranks
The British Internet directory service Scoot .com said that its top executives would quit and that it would cut 285 jobs as it struggles to survive. World Business, Section W.

19th-Century Opposition to Merger
The European Union's recent recommendation to block the proposed $45 billion merger of General Electric and Honeywell International was based, in part, on an analysis by a 19th-century French economist whose book is still cited for its astute analysis of competition. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,434.84 down 37.64Nasdaq composite -- 2,074.74 up 10.1210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.23% up 0.01The euro -- $0.8609 down 0.0025The dollar -- 124.28 yen up 0.52 Graph shows Schering-Plough share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (74%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); MERGERS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); HUMAN RESOURCES (67%); POWER FAILURES (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (83%); TYSON FOODS INC (83%); AOL INC (81%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (55%)

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (83%); ALU (NYSE) (83%); ALU (BIT) (83%); TSN (NYSE) (83%); AOL (NYSE) (81%); JDU (TSX) (55%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (83%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (83%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (83%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (83%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (83%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



721 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 104 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Fallon Layoffs In Minneapolis

BYLINE:  By Bernard Stamler 

 BODY:
The Minneapolis office of Fallon Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe, is making its first layoffs ever, dismissing about 30 employees, or 6 percent of its staff of 500. 
 "It was a last resort," said Julie Thompson, a spokeswoman at Fallon. "We held off as long as we could." 
 She attributed the layoffs to the economic slowdown, cutbacks in ad spending by clients and a decision by the AT&T Wireless division of AT&T to drop Fallon from the finalists in a review for its account, with billings estimated at $400 million.
Fallon had previously laid off 10 employees at its New York office, or about 10 percent of the staff.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (84%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (84%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (53%) ADVERTISING; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (92%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (91%); AT&T INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FALLON WORLDWIDE 

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (92%); T (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



722 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Wrong Signal on Money Laundering 

 BODY:
If Americans doubted the extent to which the country's banking system is being used to launder the profits of global criminals, they received fresh evidence this week with the arrest of the former Peruvian spy chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. His hiding place in Venezuela reportedly was exposed when he sent an emissary to Miami to withdraw $38 million he had sequestered in various American bank accounts. But now the Bush administration seems intent on weakening a worldwide campaign to clamp down on money laundering. If it does, coordinated global efforts to combat narcotics trafficking, arms smuggling, terrorism and other forms of organized crime will suffer a serious setback. 
 Ever since the first Bush administration, the United States has been a leader in international efforts to crack down on money laundering -- the main device by which criminals profit from and finance their activities. Among the most important weapons are longstanding rules that require banks to report any suspicious transactions to the government, as well as cash deposits over $10,000 -- a figure that Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill might raise to $25,000. The requirement that banks report suspicious activities has been an especially effective deterrent to money launderers and a valuable evidentiary tool for prosecutors. Mr. O'Neill, however, says that these and other laws impose "significant cost on society," an apparent reference to the paperwork required of banks. He has also questioned the value of the $700 million the government spends annually to fight laundering. 
 Rigorous scrutiny of costs and benefits is certainly appropriate, but it must also take into account costs imposed on society by organized crime. These include everything from drug addiction to human smuggling, arms trafficking and official corruption. Over the years, money laundering has also helped destabilize entire financial systems, most recently in Asia and Russia. 
Mr. O'Neill's decision to reassess broadly accepted rules has sent an alarming signal to America's law enforcement community as well as to the nation's allies even as Washington continues to join them in pressuring nations like Russia and the Philippines to adopt the same kinds of rules. The Treasury secretary's review is partly a response to the wishes of some in the financial industry, a generous contributor to George W. Bush's presidential campaign. A loose coalition of banks, privacy and free-market advocates helped persuade Mr. O'Neill a month ago to weaken a three-year effort by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to crack down on offshore tax havens. They also helped to block legislation last year that would have expanded rules that require banks to find out more about individuals and foreign jurisdictions they are dealing with.
The legislation won bipartisan support, but was blocked by Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a foe of government regulation and a friend of Texas banks, which fear losing business with Mexican banks. Republicans cannot claim to be tough on crime as long as they continue to sabotage domestic and international efforts to prevent criminals from laundering their profits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY LAUNDERING (94%); EVIDENCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (89%); SMUGGLING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); LEGISLATION (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (70%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (55%) BANKS AND BANKING; EDITORIALS; MONEY LAUNDERING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (75%); PHIL GRAMM (58%) O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



723 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Incumbency And the Face Of the State

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
ONCE again, the great State of New York leads the way. We've devised the ultimate in the public financing of political campaigns. Only officeholders need apply. 
 Used to be, governors were content to stamp their names on a few billboards and buildings. Now they are television and radio celebrities. And the taxpayers pay the bills, for the privilege of seeing idyllic images of their top public servant in forests, glens and dells, and on river banks and the occasional battlefield. 
 We refer to the unavoidable George E. Pataki, who is so electronically ubiquitous that the state comptroller, H. Carl McCall, has scheduled an audit of state advertising spending. Mr. McCall, who wants to be the Democrat to challenge Mr. Pataki next year, will not discuss his audit, but its purpose is clear: to determine what portion of the advertising budgets of 10 state agencies and public authorities go to commercials starring the governor.
The audit, reported Monday in The New York Post, is not likely to uncover any surprises, since even a casual TV viewer has to have seen Pataki ads over the last two years. They include seemingly everything that is good or could be interpreted as good in the state: tourism, children's health care, immunization, the environment, conservation, scholarships, housing loans, even baseball. To name a few.
In May 2000, a New York Times article estimated that the ads were costing taxpayers about $20 million. Mr. McCall's audit, which is to begin in two weeks, will presumably update the figure.
It's not only commercials. The governor has also proven effective at getting on television news programs, as he did traveling to Puerto Rico on the public dollar to protest the Navy's bombing exercises on Vieques -- a matter critical to the Puerto Rican community in New York, and the Puerto Rican voter next year, when Mr. Pataki will be running against the winner of the Democratic primary. 
That will likely be either Mr. McCall or Andrew M. Cuomo, in whom Mr. Pataki may have met his match. As Bill Clinton's secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Mr. Cuomo did an impressive job of building up his name at public expense, too. 
He made trips around the country and the world, and mailed out thousands of copies of shiny reports filled with photos of Mr. Cuomo (often posing with political and show business celebrities). Mr. Cuomo argues that issuing reports is standard in Washington, though the Bush administration apparently did not think so; it thwarted distribution of Mr. Cuomo's final report.
"He had a wonderful spin machine at HUD," said the governor's spokesman, Michael McKeon, almost sounding impressed.
Talk of a straight line. What about Mr. Pataki's spin machine, Mr. McKeon was asked. "We think people appreciate the fact that the governor is aggressively working to make sure children get health insurance, promote the environment and conservation, economic growth," he said. Dismissing the McCall audit as politically motivated, Mr. McKeon said New Yorkers valued the governor's television exertions: "People see that as part of the governor's job."
NOT all people. In fact, as an assemblyman in 1990, Mr. Pataki voted to ban the use of public money for any ads that featured statewide elected officials, who at the time included the man he later defeated and whose son wants to unseat him, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
"It's not party, it's incumbency," said Gene Russianoff, the senior lawyer with the New York Public Interest Research Group. "Once they have access, they can't resist. It's an irresistible impulse to use taxpayer money to promote themselves."
Three years ago, the City Council speaker, Peter F. Vallone, sponsored a measure prohibiting public officials from appearing in city-financed ads during their election year. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, criticized for making such ads in his re-election year, signed it. 
A law like the city's wouldn't stop the Pataki ads from appearing now, a year before his campaign, though a state measure could be written to be more restrictive than the city's. A state version is stalled, though. This time, with a Republican as governor, the Democrats want a law limiting the taxpayer-financed ads, while the Republicans don't.
Given Mr. Russianoff's rule -- "it's not party, it's incumbency" -- don't count on a change. 
Not in New York, where politicians know better than anywhere else how to protect their own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); BOMBINGS (63%); CITIES (60%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); BILL CLINTON (58%) PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); PUERTO RICO (92%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



724 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: At Center of Senate Battle, a Lawyer and a Doctor 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
Senator John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina, says his 20 years as a trial lawyer left him with an unshakeable belief that "regular folks" deserve a level playing field in fights with corporate giants like health maintenance organizations and insurance companies. And the belief that insurance companies, in the end, respond to the bottom line.
 Not surprisingly, Mr. Edwards has emerged as a leading champion of giving patients a broader right to sue their H.M.O.'s, the most volatile issue in the patients' rights legislation now under debate in the Senate. 
 Senator Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, says his years as a heart surgeon left him with the belief that managed care has hurt the doctor-patient relationship with "haggling, bureaucratic intervention, loss of control at the local level of decision-making." But he also firmly believes that more litigation is not the way to solve it. He is a co-sponsor of a rival patients' rights bill that proposes a more restricted right to sue. 
The two men, and their very different views, are at the center of the debate over what rights should be guaranteed to Americans with health insurance, given the rise of managed care companies and their greater role in determining what treatments and services will be covered. It is a debate that, while often arcane, has to do with the fundamental changes in American health care over the past 10 years, and how best to adjust the balance of power that, both Mr. Edwards and Mr. Frist seem to agree, has tilted away from the doctors and patients and too far toward the insurers.
There is broad agreement on many of the patient guarantees in the bill now being debated, which is co-sponsored by Senators Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, John McCain of Arizona and Mr. Edwards, and which has the support of most Democrats, consumer and patient groups and the American Medical Association. Those guarantees include guaranteed access to the closest emergency room and the use of an obstetrician-gynecologist without going through a gatekeeper.
The real sticking point, the issue that bitterly divides the Frist and the Edwards camps, is liability.
While a bipartisan compromise was reached today that would shield most employers from lawsuits, which Republicans considered a major problem with the original legislation, the basic divisions remain: Under what circumstances can patients sue their health plans, which are now largely protected from lawsuits? In which courts? For what kind of damages, and for how much? 
The Democratic bill would allow suits in federal courts and in state courts, where damages are often higher. It would allow patients to recover up to $5 million in civil penalties in federal court, but sets no limits on damages for economic loss or pain and suffering. Patients could recover damages in state courts up to the limits set by state law.
Critics assert it would open the floodgates for costly lawsuits that would drive up the cost of health insurance and reduce the number of Americans with coverage; the greedy trial lawyer has become their favorite target.
Defenders assert that the bill's right to sue is a basic remedy that, while little-used, will go far toward keeping H.M.O.'s in line. They note that states that have enacted patients' rights bills have not experienced a great surge in lawsuits.
"We just want to let regular folks have more control over their lives, over their own health care and their own decision making," said Mr. Edwards, who won his Senate seat -- his first elective office -- in 1998, but quickly became a star in a party that needs them. "This debate is not about lawyers, period."
Still, the patients' rights bill is a cause tailor-made for Mr. Edwards, a 48-year-old former plaintiffs lawyer, whose small firm in Raleigh gained renown for victories in personal-injury cases like that of a girl severely injured by a malfunctioning pool drain and malpractice cases involving newborns injured at birth. A trade journal, North Carolina Lawyers Weekly, estimated in 1998 that Mr. Edwards's firm handled more than 60 settlements or verdicts in the 1990's, amounting to at least $150 million in damages.
"He dominated our 'large verdict' list as long as he was practicing law," said Mike Dayton, editor of the legal journal.
Mr. Edwards also ended up an affluent man, who used some of his fortune in his Senate campaign..
Mr. Edwards said his firm dealt only once, to his knowledge, with a case involving a health plan's denial of care: a boy with cerebral palsy, whose doctors urged regular therapy to prevent further problems. "The only one who disagreed was his insurance company," he said. 
Mr. Edwards said he had regularly confronted other kinds of insurance companies in his work.
"The reality is, in most of those cases, the people you're dealing with are insurance companies," he said. "I know the way they function. They function on the bottom line. That's all they care about. And they respond when they feel legally they have a responsibility. Otherwise, they don't."
As for the dangers of runaway juries, Mr. Edwards replies, "If you don't trust juries, you shouldn't trust voters. They're the same people."
Mr. Edwards dismisses the idea that having a former trial lawyer involved in writing this bill amounts to any conflict of interest. "I'm not a lawyer any more," he says.
Senator Frist, 49, brings a very different set of experiences to the debate. As a surgeon specializing in heart and lung transplants, he watched the transformation of medicine from managed care.
"I would have a bureaucrat call me from 500 miles away and basically say, You are going to keep this patient beyond what is acceptable to us and therefore you need to write a letter and explain why," he said.
"I've seen the pendulum swing," he said, from no managed care to "coordination of care, in theory, but ultimately just looking at the bottom line."
But Mr. Frist, who no longer practices heart surgery but does medical mission and volunteer work, said he had also seen what litigation had done to doctors.
"It results in defensive medicine, getting more tests than necessary, changing the practice of medicine toward more paperwork," he said. "Why would you take that system and impose it on any other aspect of life?"
The senator from Tennessee comes from a prosperous medical family; his father and brother helped found what became Columbia/HCA, the huge hospital company. Mr. Frist said all of his holdings were in a blind trust, although he has occasionally been painted, by political opponents, as too sympathetic toward the health care industry.
Mr. Frist, who said he had never been sued, said his solution would be "very strong and responsive" review procedures to handle disputes between patients and their health plans, and a limited right to sue in federal court if the health plan fails to comply with the reviewer's decision.
Critics assert that his appeals procedures fall far short of what is in the McCain-Edwards-Kennedy bill. And Mr. Frist's position also puts him at odds with his colleagues at the A.M.A.
He said he still tried to keep his hand in the practice of medicine, as a reality check. He hopes to go to Africa next week, on a medical mission -- if the Senate finishes its work.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Edwards, left, and Senator Bill Frist have very different views on a patients' bill of rights. (Photographs by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LAWYERS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); DAMAGES (89%); INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (85%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (91%); DONNA F EDWARDS (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%); TED KENNEDY (59%) TONER, ROBIN; EDWARDS, JOHN (SEN); FRIST, BILL (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



725 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: Tense Macedonia 

 BODY:
The ethnic tensions that violently tore apart Yugoslavia, leaving hundreds of thousands of civilians dead and millions displaced from their homes, are now afflicting Macedonia, a landlocked Balkan republic that broke away from the old Yugoslavia in 1991. About two-thirds of Macedonia's two million people are Slavs, and most of the rest are ethnic Albanians. After a decade of tension between the two groups, and four months of sporadic violence initiated by ethnic Albanian guerrillas there, Macedonia is now teetering between political compromise and all-out warfare. 
 European diplomats are urgently pleading with the country's political leaders, particularly President Boris Trajkvoski, a moderate, to choose the path of compromise. Their efforts deserve strong American support. President Bush took a helpful step yesterday by banning fund-raising for the Albanian guerrillas in the United States. 
 For most of the 1990's, while Serbia and former Yugoslav republics like Bosnia and Croatia suffered through war and dictatorship, Macedonia seemed a relative oasis of democracy and ethnic coexistence. But beneath the surface there were points of friction. The Slavic majority dominates political life and government institutions, including the police. Language in the Constitution seems to define non-Slavs as second-class citizens. Ethnic Albanians also feel slighted culturally. Albanian is not officially recognized as a national language, and there are no accredited Albanian-language universities. 
The right place to redress these grievances is in the political arena, not the battlefield. Ethnic Albanian political parties have joined a broad coalition cabinet where they are pressing their Slavic partners to agree to carry out needed reforms. Doing so could drain support from the guerrillas, who still represent a relatively small group within the ethnic Albanian community. But real power within the government coalition remains with Slavic ministers who oppose compromise. 
With elections due early next year, and with many Slavic voters angry over guerrilla attacks and opposed to ethnic Albanian political demands, Prime Minister Ljubco Georgievski and other cabinet ministers are resisting reforms and looking to crush the guerrillas by force alone. But their tactics, including army shelling of the Albanians' villages and a wave of arrests and disappearances of Albanian community leaders, are dangerously fueling ethnic resentments and making political coexistence more difficult. 
The European Union's chief diplomat, Javier Solana, is working hard to persuade Macedonian leaders to agree to a full cease-fire and constitutional changes. The E.U. has also sent Francois Leotard, a former French defense minister, to serve as its special envoy in Macedonia. But not much more time may be left to work out a peaceful solution. Meanwhile, NATO has agreed to help disarm Albanian guerrillas should a firm cease-fire be reached. 
That kind of non-combat role would be appropriate and useful, as was Monday's impromptu escort of guerrillas out of a battle zone by American troops to reinforce a local cease-fire. NATO can help secure a peace agreement if one is reached, but first Macedonia's leaders must act responsibly to spare their country the agony of another Balkan war. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); ARMIES (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (68%); ACCREDITATION (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); ARMED FORCES (61%) EDITORIALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%); JAVIER SOLANA (53%) TRAJKOVSKI, BORIS (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANIA (97%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); FRANCE (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); SERBIA (79%) MACEDONIA (FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



726 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Pentagon to Ask For Retirement Of MX Missiles 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27 

 BODY:
The Pentagon will ask Congress for permission to begin scrapping all 50 of its nuclear-tipped MX missiles as a possible first step toward a unilateral reduction in the nation's nuclear arsenal, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld announced today.
 The missiles with their multiple warheads and ability to decimate Russian missile silos, were a signature program of President Ronald Reagan, whose administration fought acrimonious battles with Congressional Democrats over the size of the program and the basing of the missile, which it called the Peacekeeper, in the 1980's. 
 But President Bush is, in essence, proposing to dismantle one of Mr. Reagan's legacies in order to advance another of Mr. Reagan's goals: building a system to defend the nation from long-range ballistic missiles. Mr. Bush has said he would be willing to cut "to the lowest possible number" the nation's nuclear arsenal as part of a new strategic "framework" with Russia that included a missile shield. 
The request regarding the MX will be part of the detailed 2002 budget proposal that Mr. Rumsfeld will present to Congress on Thursday. That plan will ask for an $18.4 billion increase over the $310 billion defense budget that the president proposed in February, with most of the additional money going toward health care, higher pay, spare parts and missile defense programs.
In announcing the MX missile proposal today, the Pentagon offered almost no details about how quickly the weapons system would be dismantled, what would happen to the warheads and whether the administration was considering reductions in other nuclear weapons.
Indeed, Mr. Rumsfeld portrayed the proposal purely as a budget issue, saying he had been forced to decide whether to set aside money to maintain the missiles or to retire them before he had time to consider the appropriate size of the nuclear force. Air Force officials say it takes more than $70 million a year to maintain the missiles. The new budget asks for an initial sum of $17 million to begin retiring the weapons system.
Mr. Rumsfeld is overseeing a review of nuclear policy expected to include recommendations on the size of the nuclear force, consisting of missiles, submarines and bombers.
In a news conference today, Mr. Rumsfeld said he was recently told, "You've got the Peacekeeper, there's no money in the budget for the next five years to keep it, there's no money to retire it, and there's a law that says you can't retire it."
But defense officials acknowledged that in making his budget decision to retire the MX, Mr. Rumsfeld had dictated nuclear policy.
"The president has talked about an overall reduction in the nuclear forces, so this is heading in that direction," a senior Air Force officer said.
To retire the MX, the administration must ask Congress to rescind a law enacted during the Clinton administration that prohibits the Pentagon from reducing the nuclear arsenal below the levels set by Start I, with Russia. Congressional Republicans who supported that law said they wanted to review the administration's MX proposal before commenting.
Advocates of arms control, who have been dogged critics of Mr. Bush's missile defense plan, welcomed today's announcement, saying it was a start toward the fulfillment of Mr. Bush's campaign pledge to reduce the nuclear arsenal.
"I was happy to hear it," said John Isaacs, president of the Council for a Livable World, a nonprofit group that promotes lower military spending. "Until I saw it, I couldn't be sure it would happen."
But Mr. Isaacs and other arms control experts said the significance of the proposal would rest in its details, which have yet to be worked out. For instance, it is not clear whether the warheads from the MX missiles -- each missile has as many as 10 warheads -- will also be retired or remounted on other missiles.
Even before the new proposal, the Pentagon had been considering dismantling its MX missiles -- which are based in hardened underground silos at F. E. Warren Air Force Base in Wyoming.
One plan called for remounting the missiles' W-87 warheads on Minuteman missiles scattered around the country and then retiring the older Minuteman warheads. The W-87 warheads are considered more powerful and reliable than most other nuclear weapons.
If all of the 500 MX missile warheads were retired, the American nuclear strategic arsenal would still include 6,700 warheads.
Bruce Blair, a former Minuteman launch control officer who is president of the Center for Defense Information, a Pentagon watchdog group, said Mr. Bush could have had a much greater impact on the debate over missile defense if he had proposed immediately deactivating all 50 MX missiles rather than retiring them over many years.
"It would be a spectacular announcement to say they are taking them all off alert at once," Mr. Blair said.
The MX program was initially approved by the Carter administration as a counter to a new generation of heavy Soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles. But Mr. Reagan championed the weapon, depicting it as a core part of his military buildup, but Congress whittled his request to build 200 missiles to 100, and eventually to 50.
Mr. Rumsfeld's budget proposal will also request a $3 billion increase in spending on missile defense, to $8.3 billion. The request will include restructuring missile defense programs to speed development of technologies that the Bush administration considers promising, including airborne and space-based lasers.
The plan will also call for developing new missile defense test sites in Alaska. Although Pentagon officials said those sites would be used to conduct more realistic flight tests on antimissile technology, they also said the Pentagon would consider declaring them fully operational if a missile attack against the nation seemed imminent.
Mr. Rumsfeld's plan also calls for cutting the nation's fleet of B-1 bombers to about 60, from 93, and for converting two Ohio-class submarines to carry conventional weapons instead of nuclear missiles.
After being adjusted for inflation, Mr. Rumsfeld's plan would represent a 7 percent, or $33 billion, increase over President Bill Clinton's final defense budget of $296 billion, making it the largest Pentagon increase since the Reagan years.
Despite that, some senior defense officials and their supporters in Congress have said the increase is too small. At the same time, fiscal conservatives in Congress have expressed strong skepticism about the size of the Pentagon request. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (93%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MX (MISSILE); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) DAO, JAMES; RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); REAGAN, RONALD WILSON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) RUSSIA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



727 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
No Fed Magic for Poor Corporate Earnings

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
When the Federal Reserve cut interest rates six months ago, investors stampeded into stocks, certain that lower rates would mean higher share prices. Yesterday, the Fed cut rates again -- by one-quarter of a point -- and investors simply yawned.
 The gulf between the two reactions shows what months of bad corporate earnings news can do to the normally buoyant mood of stock market investors. Now painfully aware that the Fed's moves do not translate into an immediate lift in corporate results, investors are taking a wait-and-see approach to stocks. 
 "What the market reaction says to me is that Fed easing is not going to immediately help stocks right now," said Bill Quan, director of research at Fuji Securities in New York. "Fed easing is not going to help companies cut costs or regain pricing power; they have to contend with those issues themselves. What the Fed is doing is keeping the consumer side of the economy afloat while the business sector readjusts for the excesses of the past few years." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 37.64 points yesterday, to 10,434.84, while the Nasdaq composite index gained 10.12 points, to 2,074.74.
The muted reaction to the sixth rate cut this year is notable because the major stock gauges are lower than they were when the Fed began the reductions that have taken the Federal funds rate to 3.75 percent from 6.5 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average is 3.25 percent lower than it was when the Fed began easing and the Nasdaq composite is down 16 percent.
Investors seem worried not only that the United States has failed to respond yet to the medicine of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, but also that global weakness may further squeeze corporate profits. With world economies sagging because of the United States slowdown, foreign customers can no longer be expected to bail out American companies. 
In its statement, the Federal Reserve acknowledged that the economy was by no means out of the woods and mentioned slowing overseas growth in its list of woes. Since September, when capital spending on technology peaked, United States exports have plummeted 4.7 percent. 
The opening of borders that has meant so much to global economic growth now threatens to tip the world economy into recession as the engine of that growth -- the United States economy -- slows. Weakness in demand abroad will keep a lid on corporate profits.
Economists at Morgan Stanley expect world trade volumes to rise 4.3 percent in 2001, down considerably from a 12.8 percent increase last year. This will be the steepest decline in growth on record. The biggest previous decline was in 1975.
The problem is that global trade accounts for a growing portion of world gross domestic product. Morgan Stanley estimates that the volume of world trade amounts to about one-quarter of world output, double the share that prevailed in the 1970's. As a result, declines in world trade will reinforce the downtrends in the United States, Japan and Europe.
The Fed can do little to restart global demand for goods. Stephen Roach, chief economist at Morgan Stanley, said: "The Fed funds rate at this point is not going to temper global contagion. It's a new dimension to this downturn. Stage 1 was the U.S.; Stage 2 is the world; and Stage 3 is what's happening in the world comes back to hit the U.S." 
The only ray of sunshine on an otherwise gloomy economic scene is the American consumer, who has remained willing to spend recently in spite of the downturn. But economists say that continued large-scale job losses and a stagnant stock market could alter that behavior.
John Lonski, chief economist at Moody's Investors Service, pointed out that in the first quarter of 2001, the market value of assets held by American households slumped an unheard-of 5.8 percent from the corresponding period a year earlier. Not since the 1.4 percent drop that occurred in the third quarter of 1974, during a brutal recession, had the value of household assets declined year over year. The quarter after that decline, consumer spending fell almost 2 percent, Mr. Lonski said.
Most of the decline in household assets can be attributed to skidding stock prices. According to the Fed, the value of stocks and mutual fund shares held by Americans fell $8.7 trillion, or 31.6 percent from the year earlier. The plunge in wealth was partly offset by a 12.1 percent increase in real estate values.
"The Fed realizes that rate cuts may not have an immediate effect in the consumer's pocket," said Elizabeth K. Miller, portfolio manager at Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen in New York. "But they are willing to cut to maintain the psychological effect."
Additional layoffs could be another factor damaging consumer confidence. On Tuesday, for example, Merrill Lynch said that declining profits might force it to eliminate more than the 3,300 jobs, or 5 percent of its work force, that it has already cut this year. A total of 20,000 Wall Street jobs have been lost in 2001.
"Corporate America is plagued on three fronts," Mr. Lonski said. "The worst corporate profitability in 10 years, a stock market that continues to struggle and a plethora of corporate credit rating downgrades. The rate cut moves us in the right direction, but it's not going to remedy what menaces the U.S. economy immediately." 
In its statement, the Fed made no mention of its future stance on rates, but most economists expect more cuts. "I think ultimately they will have to cut a little more because the easing hasn't translated to easier financial conditions," said Jan Hutzius, senior economist at Goldman, Sachs. But assessing the economy will be even trickier for investors in the coming months, Mr. Hutzius said.
"Over the next few months," he said, "a lot of indicators now deeply in the red will look somewhat better. But it will be very hard to distinguish between a normal bounce and a true recovery, and I think that's going to keep the markets on tenterhooks."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan's latest attempt to lift the economy out of its doldrums by easing rates failed to excite investors. (pg. C1) Chart: "Disappearing Wealth"The stock market decline caused the total value of United States household assets to fall to $47.13 trillion in the first quarter Graph shows figures from 1990-2001 for the quarterly change in household assets. (Source: Federal Reserve via Moody's Investors Service)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); RECESSION (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (72%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); EXPORT TRADE (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



728 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Lucent and JDS Uniphase Prepare for More Job Cuts

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO 

 BODY:
Concern over weakness in the telecommunications industry heightened yesterday as two large companies, Lucent Technologies and JDS Uniphase, prepared for additional job cuts.
 Lucent, the telecommunications equipment maker based in Murray Hill, N.J., may cut as many as 10,000 jobs in addition to the 10,000 layoffs announced earlier this year and the buyouts offered to 13,000 midlevel managers, people close to the company said. 
 More details were not available, although people close to Lucent said the reductions would probably take place in weaker parts of the company, like units that sold to small communications companies. 
Kathleen Fitzgerald, a spokeswoman for Lucent, which employs about 100,000 people worldwide, declined to comment on the reductions, which were reported yesterday by The Wall Street Journal.
JDS Uniphase, the maker of tiny lasers used to send signals across fiber optic communications networks, expects to extend cuts beyond the 8,000 already announced, said Lori Goulet, a spokeswoman for the company, which is based in San Jose, Calif. JDS, which expects to have 20,000 employees after earlier rounds of cuts are completed, said the extent of the new cuts had not been determined.
The cutbacks at Lucent and JDS Uniphase are part of a shakeout in the communications business after abundant financing in the late 1990's spawned dozens of start-up companies seeking to compete with the industry's giants. That financing dried up last year, pushing several companies into bankruptcy and others to the brink of insolvency.
Problems at these upstarts led sales to decline at large equipment makers like Lucent and Nortel Networks of Canada, and a chain reaction of sorts ensued. Lucent, for instance, is one of the largest buyers of JDS Uniphase's lasers. Over 100,000 telecommunications industry jobs have been cut this year.
"We're experiencing further downturn in the economic condition of our industry," said Ms. Goulet of JDS Uniphase.
Lucent hopes to cut costs substantially by reducing its work force. Under its buyout program, for example, nearly half of the 13,000 managers eligible for the offers are expected to accept them, people close to the company said. 
Using rough estimates, Lucent could save up to $600 million a year if 6,000 managers, each costing the company about $100,000 a year in salary and benefits, accept the offers. The money for the buyouts will come from Lucent's pension fund, allowing the company to avoid using cash for daily operations.
Separately, Lucent said yesterday that it had won a three-year contract from Sprint PCS to provide as much as $1 billion worth of equipment. Nortel received a similar contract potentially worth $1 billion. 
The contracts, which will enable Sprint to build a so-called third-generation wireless network capable of quickly delivering Internet services to users of mobile devices, are an important victory for the wireless standard known as code division multiple access, which is more common in the United States than in Europe and Asia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); FIBER OPTICS (90%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (89%); CODE DIVISION MULTIPLE ACCESS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); 3G WIRELESS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); CONTRACT AWARDS (72%); STARTUPS (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (63%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (94%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (91%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (91%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC; JDS UNIPHASE CORP 

TICKER: ALU (PAR) (94%); ALU (NYSE) (94%); ALU (BIT) (94%); JDU (TSX) (91%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (94%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (94%) SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

PERSON: ROMERO, SIMON 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2001 



729 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
He's Poor, She's Rich. Made for Each Other!

BYLINE:  By A. O. SCOTT 

 BODY:
These days, a realistic Hollywood movie about teenagers seems about as likely as a naughty sex farce from Iran. Early on, "Crazy/Beautful," with its gritty, blue-tinged cinematography, its slangy, mumbled dialogue and its fine-grained feel for the neighborhoods of Los Angeles, looks like an exception. With artful economy, John Stockwell, the director, introduces Carlos Nunez (Jay Hernandez) and Nicole Oakley (Kirsten Dunst), classmates at Pacific High School who come, wouldn't you know it, from different worlds.
 Carlos, hard-working and disciplined, wakes up every morning at dawn to travel, by foot and by bus, from his working-class Mexican-American neighborhood to the school, where he is a football star. He hopes to attend the United States Naval Academy and become a pilot. 
 Nicole, meanwhile, is a troubled rich girl who lives, with her congressman-father and evil yuppie stepmother, in an elegant glass-walled aerie in the hills. She and her friend Maddy (Taryn Manning) lead lives of privileged dissipation. Their exuberant recklessness expresses the alienation of the overentitled, and is presented in pointed contrast to Carlos's straight-arrow diligence. 
He and Nicole first meet on Venice Beach, where she is performing court-ordered trash collection after an arrest for driving under the influence and Carlos is enjoying some rare downtime with his friends. What happens next? Let me consult my critic's dictionary of generic plot descriptions. Yes, here it is: opposites attract. Trouble rears its ugly head. Their lives are changed forever.
The story of their sweet and sexy courtship concludes with an obligatory montage of romantic bliss -- driving on the freeway, frolicking on the beach, watching the sun set over the ocean -- after which the inevitable confrontations ensue in the form of impassioned speeches.
To be fair, "Crazy/Beautiful" is not as bad as I'm making it sound. The frustration is that it could be so much better than it is. Ms. Dunst and Mr. Hernandez are both smart actors who come at what could have been cardboard characters from unexpected angles. Driven as he is, Carlos is also naive and sometimes indecisive. And Nicole, underneath her wildness and bad-girl bravado, is not only wounded and angry, but also sensible and decent. Ms. Dunst doesn't look or sound like a teenage movie idol -- her face is wide and a little blotchy, her voice sometimes squeaks at the upper registers -- but she has an emotional range that few actresses of her age can match. 
The problem is that the emotions she portrays with such raw authenticity have been pulled out of the dusty warehouse of melodramatic convention. The movie suggests she is not only angry and misunderstood, but mentally ill as well, and compounds this dubious notion with the even more dubious conceit that the love of a good man and a few truth-telling confrontations will accomplish what pills and therapy cannot.
And though Nicole and Carlos are conceived and acted with refreshing nuance, the people surrounding them have a flat, made-for-television feel that makes the movie schematic and responsible when it should be brave and honest. The other rich kids are a shade too nasty and selfish, and the nobility and hot-temperedness of Carlos's friends and family carry a whiff of the well-meaning liberal condescension that Nicole manages to avoid.
Speaking of well-meaning liberals, Nicole's father, though cannily played by Bruce Davison, is at once too flagrantly hypocritical to be sympathetic and too nice a guy to be an object of satire. 
Smoothed over by a lively and varied soundtrack that includes pop and hip-hop songs in Spanish and English, "Crazy/Beautiful" intersperses its moments of easy, lyrical sensuality and unassuming realism with canned plot points and reheated speeches. It is an enormous improvement over the brainless, patronizing teenage romances that have slouched into (and quickly out of) theaters in recent years. But it could, if the filmmakers had trusted themselves and the actors a bit more, have lived up to its title.
"Crazy/Beautiful" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has a few sex scenes, some profanity, and implied drug use.

CRAZY/BEAUTIFUL

Directed by John Stockwell; written by Phil Hay and Matt Manfredi; director of photography, Shane Hurlbut; edited by Melissa Kent; music by Paul Haslinger; production designer, Maia Javan; produced by Mary Jane Ufland, Harry J. Ufland, Rachel Pfeffer; released by Touchstone Pictures. Running time: 95 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Kirsten Dunst (Nicole), Jay Hernandez (Carlos), Bruce Davison (Tom Oakley), Herman Osorio (Luis), Miguel Castro (Eddie), Tommy De La Cruz (Victor), Rolando Molina (Hector), Soledad St. Hilaire (Mrs. Nunez), Lucinda Jenney (Courtney) and Taryn Manning (Maddy).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Which is which? Jay Hernandez (playing Carlos) and Kirsten Dunst(Nicole) in "Crazy/Beautiful," a new film directed by John Stockwell. (Will McGarry/Touchstone Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); BEACHES (70%); NAVIES (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (65%); STEPPARENTS (53%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES NAVAL ACADEMY (56%)

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, JAY; DUNST, KIRSTEN; STOCKWELL, JOHN; SCOTT, A O 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%)

TITLE: CRAZY/BEAUTIFUL (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



730 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Actors and Producers Turn Earnest in Talks 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 28 

 BODY:
Negotiators representing actors and producers stepped up the pace of their talks this week with a midnight Saturday deadline for the expiration of their contract.
 But the tone surrounding the talks among the actors' unions -- the Screen Actors Guild and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists -- and the Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers seemed to be more determined than defiant as negotiators have put in long hours since last weekend to hone proposals. Fears of a strike eased last month when the Writers Guild of America reached a $41 million three-year agreement with the producers. 
 Citing a news blackout imposed at the start of negotiations on May 15, representatives from both sides declined to be specific about the status of talks and what will happen at midnight on Saturday if a deal is not reached. 
Among the issues said to dominate the talks are residuals paid for programs shown on cable television, minimum pay for actors, payment for work shown in foreign markets and pay for so-called middle-class actors who are struggling to make a living in smaller television and film roles.
Actors are said to be seeking a 5 percent raise in their minimum rates and an increase of 1.5 percentage points in the license fees they are paid when shows go to cable. That amount is currently 6 percent. Representatives of negotiators declined to discuss figures.
As the deadline approaches so does the outside pressure to reach agreement. Two groups that at the request of Mayor Richard Riordan had issued a report on the economic impact if both writers and actors should strike at the same time reissued the report detailing the impact of a strike by actors only.
The report prepared by the Milken Institute and Sebago Associates predicted that a one-month walkout by actors would cost Los Angeles 21,700 jobs and $1.3 billion to the economy. If such a strike went on three months, the loss would be 54,000 jobs and $3.2 billion, it said.
Production has already slowed. The International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees said work was down 50 percent among costumers, makeup artists and hairdressers; 40 percent for set artists and 30 percent among set painters.
One reason is that producers are not "greenlighting anything, fearful that anything can happen," said Thomas Short, president of the alliance, which represents some 50,000 skilled workers in the entertainment industry.
Mr. Short, whose group is monitoring the talks, said he was guardedly optimistic that the groups would reach agreement. He noted that beyond figures showing how a slowdown could affect the industry, the impact of the nearly six-month strike by commercial actors was also an incentive to settle. That strike ended in October, but some work never reappeared.
Mr. Short said the production of commercials was down 30 percent in Los Angeles and 40 percent in New York since that strike. "That shows you," he said, "what can happen to an industry." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); FILM (90%); STRIKES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); VISUAL ARTISTS (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); STATISTICS (71%) MOTION PICTURES; LABOR; ACTORS AND ACTRESSES; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: MOTION PICTURE & TELEVISION FUND INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SCREEN ACTORS GUILD (84%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (84%) SCREEN ACTORS GUILD; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION AND RADIO ARTISTS; ALLIANCE OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION PRODUCERS 

PERSON: WHITAKER, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



731 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Harlem Co-op Has a Financing Twist

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
The first tenants will begin moving next week into the Renaissance, a 240-apartment co-op in central Harlem that was developed with an unusual financing method intended to make the apartments affordable to people with moderate incomes. 
 Buyers for the one- to three-bedroom apartments were chosen by lottery from 3,500 applicants. The apartments, with 675 to 1,100 square feet of space, are on the upper floors of the residential-commercial project on the east side of Lenox Avenue from 116th to 117th Streets. 
 There are 60,000 square feet of retail space on the ground floor of the $60 million building, which rises to 11 stories on the avenue and steps down to 8 stories and 6 stories on the side streets. 
It was developed, using public and private funds, by Suna/Levine Industries of Douglaston, N.Y., which is headed by Stuart Match Suna and Jeffrey E. Levine. The Malcolm Shabazz Mosque, across 117th Street from the Renaissance, is the apartment building's nonprofit sponsor.
Since sales began 10 months ago, 225 units have been sold to people with annual incomes ranging from $31,000 to $147,750, per apartment. Apartment buyers must put up $4,533 to $15,393 in cash, depending on the size and location of the apartments. Buyers then owe a proportionate share of the building's underlying mortgage, ranging from $113,000 to $381,831. Buyers pay the balance of the purchase price as part of their monthly fees, which include maintenance, and range from $794 to $2,696. Interest paid on the mortgage is tax-deductible. 
Mr. Levine said that to help quell community concerns over gentrification, half the units were being sold to buyers from Harlem. The developer, whose firm is based in Queens, added that many buyers were drawn to the project because of its low cash prices. 
That was the case for Sean G. Barrow, a 35-year-old accountant for a Wall Street investment firm. He is trading his one-bedroom rental on 104th Street and Manhattan Avenue for a three-bedroom unit at the Renaissance. Mr. Barrow said he is also betting on Harlem's future, "because there are no other areas left in Manhattan to develop." 
Prices for the apartments have been kept low in part by having individual buyers take advantage of the below-market rate for the buildingwide mortgage, and in part by property-tax abatements. The building's $46.3 million mortgage, primarily from the New York City Housing Development Corporation, carries a 6.65 percent interest rate. Property taxes have been waived for 21 years, and will then be phased in. 
The monthly payment would be $900 for an 850-square-foot, two-bedroom apartment with a down payment of $5,138 and a proportionate share of the underlying mortgage of $129,000. That covers taxes, operating expenses and the payment on the underlying mortgage.
Using this financing method, buyers do not need to secure separate mortgages for their apartments, on which the interest rate would have been significantly higher. Buyers who sell their units at a profit must split the profits with the city, which will use the proceeds to reduce the underlying mortgage.
The Renaissance was developed under the city's Anchor Program, which is aimed at spurring retail growth in areas where the city invested heavily in housing. Its sponsors include the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development and the New York City Housing Partnership.
"It is the first significant activity along 116th Street for some time and we expect it to be a catalyst for other development," said Jerilyn Perine, commissioner of the city's housing preservation department.
Of the 11 other Anchor projects, 3 more will be in Harlem and produce 647 condominium apartments and 174,000 square feet of retail space. The next is to start this summer on Fifth Avenue between 115th and 116th Streets and will have 25,000 square feet of stores and 128 condos.
The Renaissance's success "has made it significantly less difficult for developers to obtain financing for other multifamily housing initiatives in Harlem," said Charles A. Brass, executive vice president of the Housing Development Corporation.
He cited two co-op projects in central Harlem, totaling 203 units, which his agency recently agreed to finance. They are part of 3,000 rental and homeowner housing units planned in Harlem by the city over the next two to three years. 
The Renaissance, designed by Greenberg Farrow Architecture of Manhattan, has amenities like a laundry room and a landscaped courtyard. The retail space has been leased to eight tenants, including a 20,000-square-foot supermarket. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Renaissance, which has apartments geared to people with moderate incomes, will welcome its first tenants next week in central Harlem. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); RETAIL PROPERTY (70%); TAX LAW (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); TAX INCENTIVES (64%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%) HOUSING; COOPERATIVES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



732 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Markets Rally on Hopes for Higher Corporate Earnings

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stocks rallied yesterday on brighter hopes for corporate earnings, a day after the Federal Reserve made its sixth cut in interest rates this year.
 Technology stocks led the market higher, and Microsoft gained more than 2 percent. A federal appeals court reversed a judge's order to split Microsoft into two companies, although the court upheld the judge's findings that the company had violated antitrust law. 
 "The big part of the rally today has more to do with the tech world than it does with anything else," said James W. Paulsen, chief investment officer at Wells Capital Management. "If you get a positive day in tech, it sort of wags the whole equities dog and you get a lot of people who are willing to sort of ride with it."
The technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index gained 50.72 points, or 2.44 percent, to close at 2,125.46.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which includes Microsoft among its 30 components, rose 131.37 points, or 1.26 percent, to 10,566.21. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.13 points, or 1.25 percent, to 1,226.20.
The Federal Reserve cut short-term rates by a quarter of a percentage point on Wednesday. Many investors and analysts had hoped the Fed would cut rates by half a point as it had five times this year. After a muted reaction to the smaller cut on Wednesday, investors seemed more enthusiastic yesterday, behavior similar to that after the rate cut on May 15.
Analysts said investors now wanted to see a payoff in strengthening corporate profits from the Fed's monetary policy.
"We're at a point now where investors shrug off rate reductions," said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of United States equities at Bankers Trust Private Banking. "They want to see companies come clean and basically throw in everything from this quarter."
He added, "What we want to see is stability."
Still, analysts said the Fed's action and the Microsoft ruling convinced some investors that stock prices might soon turn higher. 
Trading in Microsoft was halted nearly three hours after the court ruling was released, but resumed shortly before 3 p.m. The shares rose $1.60, to $72.74, and traded as high as $76.15. In their haste to take profits on Microsoft, investors overwhelmed two Nasdaq trading systems, shutting them down for over 15 minutes.
Investors also welcomed data from the Labor Department showing that first-time unemployment claims dropped for a third week. Claims fell 16,000, to 388,000, the lowest number since May.
Mixed signals persist about the overall health of the economy. Companies continued to issue profit warnings and layoffs. DaimlerChrysler said it would cut 1,120 jobs at four plants because of continuing weakness in the truck market. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
By Bloomberg News
Bonds fell yesterday after a decline in weekly jobless claims suggested interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve this year had started to spur economic growth.
"With the economy expected to recover, we're at the tail end of Fed rate cuts," said Eric Cheung, who helps manage $8 billion at the Wilmington Trust Corporation.
The price of the benchmark 10-year note fell 22/32, to 97 18/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.33 percent from 5.23 percent on Wednesday.
The 30-year bond fell 22/32, to 95 26/32. Its yield rose to 5.67 percent from 5.62 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JUDGES (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PROFIT WARNINGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); APPEALS COURTS (72%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (62%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



733 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Kofi Annan: An Idealist Who Took the Heat, Shook Up the U.N. and Keeps Top Post 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA CROSSETTE 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, June 28 

 BODY:
Kofi Annan became the seventh United Nations secretary general at the worst of times. The organization was bankrupt, at war with the United States Congress and ridiculed for peacekeeping fiascoes on several continents. The Clinton administration had just driven Mr. Annan's predecessor from office in an unusual display of pressure that still rankles through the Secretariat and the diplomatic corps.
 On Friday, still six months' shy of the end of his first five-year term, Mr. Annan, the quiet Ghanaian who took charge with a decisiveness few had predicted and changed the organization from the inside out, will be given a second term by acclamation in the 189-member General Assembly. No nation thought twice about other candidates; he was considered unbeatable. The race was over before it began. 
 In the last few years, the United Nations has not grown rich, but it has achieved a better budget balance. Relations with Washington have improved dramatically, and searing reports on peacekeeping operations gone wrong -- commissioned by Mr. Annan in full knowledge that he would be criticized as the former head of the peacekeeping department -- have cleared the air and allowed for new thinking on how to tighten up existing missions or create more realistic new ones.
Mr. Annan has also weathered a rising tide of anger against international organizations and protests over globalization, while at the same time opening the doors of the United Nations to cooperation with some of the same corporations reviled on the streets -- and to some of the demonstrators themselves.
"He's been very creative at dealing with these new issues," said James B. Cunningham, the acting American ambassador, "and very adept at getting around ideological barriers and finding creative ways to try to build practical bridges." Mr. Annan has argued that corporations control more money than many countries, and they have to be brought into the mix -- whether in confronting the issue of AIDS, the information technology gap between rich and poor or the problems of the environment.
Mr. Cunningham said today that the Security Council hastened the selection process, which would normally take place near the end of the year, because everyone agreed that Mr. Annan should have as much time as possible to get started on his next term. 
Robert E. Rubin, the former United States Treasury secretary, remembers sizing up Mr. Annan for the first time at a private dinner at the secretary general's residence a few years ago. "I thought he had a very thoughtful and sensible view of the dynamics of the global economy and what needed to happen," Mr. Rubin said today. "He's idealistic, but it wasn't unrealistic." Mr. Annan subsequently asked Mr. Rubin, then out of government, to join a panel to propose ways of dealing with the failed economies of the world's poorest countries.
Mr. Annan, the son of a Ghanaian businessman from a family of chiefs, has worked hard to persuade African leaders to take charge of solving the continent's problems wherever they can, while pressing for more outside aid in helping them battle diseases and economic imbalances. This has not always made him popular in Africa, where the American-educated Mr. Annan is often seen as almost a foreigner, some African diplomats say. The secretary general has degrees from Macalester College in St. Paul and from M.I.T. His wife, Nane, is a Swedish lawyer and artist.
More generally in the developing world, Mr. Annan has been criticized for his strong advocacy of the need for outside intervention when the human rights of people are being abused by their governments. One of his most difficult choices over the next year will be to find a successor to the outspoken Mary Robinson as the organization's high commissioner for human rights. Some governments would prefer to see the position abolished.
Mr. Annan's efforts to reorganize and streamline the management of the organization met with skepticism in the General Assembly, which has also been reluctant to allow Mr. Annan to bolster the peacekeeping department with more independent experts and a greater intelligence-gathering capacity. Some developing nations have also worried that Mr. Annan would sacrifice aid programs in order to make institutional changes demanded mostly by industrial nations. But his introduction of a cabinet-style management team has been widely welcomed, even within the international civil service, which can be resistant to change.
To the surprise of many here and in Washington, the General Accounting Office concluded last year that he had met virtually all Congressional demands for reform that were within his power.
In Washington today, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Delaware Democrat who is now chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called Mr. Annan's re-election "great news." 
"I've known Kofi for many years now, long before he was the secretary general," said Mr. Biden, a frequent visitor to United Nations headquarters. He said Mr. Annan had impressed him with his ability to bridge gaps between the third world and the industrial countries. "My grandpop used to say, 'Every once in a while, history delivers somebody uniquely suited to do a job.' I think that's Kofi." 
With a demeanor of practiced self-control and unfailing courtesy, Mr. Annan rarely raises his soft voice or allows flashes of anger to escape -- though aides say they know when not to question him. At the same time, he has greatly enlarged his circle of advisers, sometimes informally or socially, turning to a range of outsiders who have brought new ideas into an organization that often ran on autopilot under other secretaries general.
William H. Luers, president of the United Nations Association of the United States, the leading citizen-support group for the organization, said that Mr. Annan's ability to "keep cool" had made a difference as he tried to rebuild good relations with Washington, a campaign he undertook against the advice of some of his advisers and a number of governments.
"I think he managed that very difficult number of years without getting upset or hostile," Mr. Luers said today. "He was able to stay above it." Mr. Luers is optimistic about future United Nations-United States relations because Mr. Annan and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell have known each other for years and talk frequently. Mr. Annan has made at least one trip to the Middle East recently at Mr. Powell's request.
"The Powell-Annan relationship is a very hopeful relationship," Mr. Luers said. "Many secretaries of state start off with good relationships with secretary generals and then things come to pass that divide them. I think these two are determined to make it work."
Mr. Luers said the message Mr. Annan had often taken to Capitol Hill or relayed to members of Congress was: "This isn't a world government. This is an organization trying to coordinate the work of everybody who has to work together."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kofi Annan, a Ghanaian, changed the United Nations from the inside out. Today, he will get a second five-year term as secretary general. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (86%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; ANNAN, KOFI (SEC GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



734 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: Harlem Development Program Not Much Help, Critics and Officials Say 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
Many Harlem community leaders have cast a skeptical eye on a $250 million federal, state and city program that was meant to bring economic development to their neighborhood, saying it has benefited national retailers but has not helped many local people start their own businesses.
 More recently, this criticism has found support among city and state officials, who are threatening to shut down the small-business lending arm of the program, the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone. In March, they said they would no longer authorize loans that were not already in some stage of approval. 
 On the surface, at least, the numbers tell a depressing story. Since the program began operations in 1995, the small-business unit, known as the Business Resource and Investment Service Center, or Brisc, has made only 38 loans. All together, these loans have amounted to $3 million. But $4.9 million has been spent operating the unit. 
Deputy Mayor Rudy Washington, the chairman of the board that oversees the empowerment zone program, said he was outraged by the ratio of operating costs to loans. "There are so few loans, it's crazy," Mr. Washington said recently. "Just look at the amount of money that's being spent, and then look at the productivity."
People familiar with this type of lending say, however, that weighing operating costs against loans is not a meaningful way to evaluate a program meant for people lacking the qualifications for a bank loan. They say that government officials have underestimated how challenging it is to identify promising businesses in an area in which more than half the population has no high school diploma and the median household income is less than $23,000.
Since 1991, the Regional Economic Development Assistance Corporation has run a similar loan program in Brooklyn. Its business manager, Joan G. Bartolomeo, said most of its applicants have already been rejected by a bank. "It's really, really hard to find clients for the programs," she said. "It seems counterintuitive, but other loan funds have expressed the same frustrations. A lot of time is spent holding hands." She said about 5 percent of the applicants in her program eventually got loans.
Despite all the talk about Harlem's recovery, it is still tough to make a living there. Most of the new retail development has occurred on 125th Street, where rents can be as high as $121 a square foot, well beyond the means of local merchants. Rents elsewhere in Harlem are much lower, but there is far less foot traffic.
In dollars, at least, the small-business unit is just a small portion of the empowerment zone program, which Congress created in 1994. But its problems reflect the pitfalls encountered by the New York program as a whole. Each level of government has veto power, an unwieldy structure that some observers say seems doomed to fail, particularly when opposing political parties are involved.
The attack on the small-business program is also a symptom of the strained relationship between Mr. Washington and Terry C. Lane, the president of the empowerment zone since 1999. Mr. Washington, who tangled with Mr. Lane's predecessor, Deborah C. Wright, said he was even more unhappy with Mr. Lane, whom he accuses of running a sloppy shop (an accusation Mr. Lane denies).
Mr. Lane has not ingratiated himself with either Mr. Washington or state officials. They thought he seemed overly eager to promote himself when he entertained foreign dignitaries like Prince Andrew of Britain and allowed his photograph to appear 16 times in a recent 12-page newsletter.
He also did not get along with William C. Landers, a veteran Citibank executive with a background in small business who was brought in to rescue Brisc in May 1999 after what is generally acknowledged to have been a disastrous start-up. "He was excellent," said Carlton Brown, a member of the Brisc board. "He knew the sorts of challenges you had lending to small businesses."
But Mr. Landers resigned suddenly in February and returned to Citibank. He will not publicly discuss his difficulties with Mr. Lane, other than to say: "I had some displeasure. I voiced my concern to the board chair." Mr. Lane also would not comment on his specific disagreements with Mr. Landers.
Edward G. Lloyd, the chairman of Brisc, said Mr. Landers has not been replaced because the loan unit has an uncertain future. He said it should be given a chance to prove itself. "Would we like to make more loans?" he said. "Of course. But I am in no circumstances apologizing. I think we have done a very good job." 
One of the concerns the loan unit has helped is Nubian Day Care on 135th Street between Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard and Frederick Douglass Boulevard. Annie L. Gooding, a longtime physician's assistant with no business experience, said Brisc taught her how to write a business plan for the private center and then gave her and her partner, Steven A. Robinson, a loan for more than $199,000. Subsequently, their center, which is expected to open in late summer, got two bank loans from EAB for a total of $235,000. 
Ms. Gooding said she and Mr. Robinson had advantages other applicants lacked, like master's degrees and a credit history. "I've heard people say that Brisc won't help you," she said. "But they don't understand that the money has to be paid back."
The fate of Brisc may be decided today, when the oversight board holds its quarterly meeting. Kevin S. Corbett, the chief operating officer of the Empire State Development Corporation, said one option would be to hand off the program to a commercial bank. At least one bank, Carver, has already rejected the proposal.
Mr. Lane said severing the program from his organization "would be detrimental to the community and to the spirit and mission of the Empowerment Zone, particularly given the turnaround of Brisc." 
Representative Charles B. Rangel, Mr. Lane's only ally on the empowerment zone board, said Brisc was needed to make Harlem residents feel they are not excluded from the economic development effort, which has lent millions of dollars to shopping center developers. 
But Stanley Gleaton, the chairman of Community Board 10, said there was a perception that the empowerment zone had fallen short of its goals. 
"I'm happy with the job they are doing," Mr. Gleaton said. "I just wish they could do more for the smaller person and strengthen the infrastructure. We don't see as much of that as we would like to see."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A loan from the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, headed by Terry C. Lane, right, will help Annie L. Gooding and Steven A. Robinson open a day care center. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times); (Krista Niles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TRENDS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (76%); VETO (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS; CREDIT 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; HARLEM (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



735 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
With 2001 half over, experts' forecasts for spending become even gloomier than before.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
FOR Madison Avenue, the second half of 2001 will offer more of the same lugubrious mood that the first half did, as two leading forecasters are again reducing their estimates of advertising spending for the full year. Both are even predicting declines in ad spending in this country from 2000, which would be the first such drop in a decade.
 The reductions are the most recent in what has become a skein of skinbacks as the economic slowdown shows few, if any, signs of easing, particularly as it affects the advertising, marketing and media industries. 
 "We've now seen what was confined to the U.S. in the fourth quarter last year and first quarter this year moving into the major markets of Europe and Asia," said John Perriss, chairman and chief executive at Zenith Media in London. 
"Until corporate profitability improves," he added, so marketers can restore money to their ad budgets, "we're bumping along the bottom."
Mr. Perriss spoke yesterday about a worldwide ad-spending forecast that Zenith will formally announce today. Zenith, a media services agency owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe, is reducing by more than half the estimates for ad spending in 2001 that Mr. Perriss made only six months ago.
The downward revisions in the estimates by Mr. Perriss and Lauren Rich Fine, an analyst who follows the advertising industry for Merrill Lynch, come after similar re-evaluations by other forecasters, including Robert J. Coen, considered the leading predictor of ad spending.
Mr. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann in New York -- part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of the Interpublic Group of Companies -- has cut his prediction of American ad spending growth this year to 2.5 percent, from an initial 6.5 percent and then 5.8 percent. His latest worldwide estimate is for an increase of 3.7 percent, down from 7.1 percent and then 6.1 percent.
In December, Mr. Perriss predicted that worldwide ad spending in 2001 in the major media would increase 6 percent from the record level of 2000. Now, that forecast is being trimmed to an increase of 1.4 percent.
"We had just the most fantastic boom in 2000, but now the world's economies are slowing down," Mr. Perriss said. "The U.S., Western Europe and Japan could all go into recession at the same time."
"As a result," he added, "we don't see the third quarter and the fourth quarter with any kind of uplift the way we did six months ago."
In the United States, Mr. Perriss said, ad spending in the major media, including television, newspapers, radio, magazines, billboards and the Internet, will decline 2 percent in 2001 from last year. That would be the first decline in American ad spending since 1991, a recession year.
Mr. Perriss attributed the rare reversal to softness in demand for commercial time on television networks and large cuts in ad spending made this year by major American marketers like Ford Motor, Johnson & Johnson and Philip Morris.
Ms. Fine, in an interview yesterday after she released a report with her revised estimate, also attributed her revisions to softness in the demand for ad space in magazines and newspapers. And she pointed to weak demand for TV commercial time, particularly this month, in the so-called upfront market, as agencies make buying decisions before the fall TV season begins.
"It's hard to predict positive gains for most categories of media," Ms. Fine said, "so you look at your forecasts and say, 'Why would you think there would be gains this year?' "
Last year, Ms. Fine estimated that ad spending growth in the United States in 2001 would be 4 percent to 4.5 percent. She trimmed that to a gain of 2.5 percent in a report she wrote in March. Yesterday, she cut that again, to a decline of 0.7 percent.
There are no signs at this point that there will be any improvement in the second half of 2001 compared with the first half, Ms. Fine said, "even with the easier comparisons" against the results achieved in 2000, which softened as that year went on.
Ms. Fine is, however, somewhat more sanguine as she looks ahead to 2002. She is forecasting a return to American ad spending gains next year, predicting an increase of 5.1 percent compared with 2001.
"The major media -- newspapers, magazines, TV -- will all be up less than 5 percent," she said. "But radio, direct marketing and the Internet" will grow more, she said, with that "pulling up the numbers." In her only previous estimate for 2002, Ms. Fine forecast an increase from 2001 of 5 percent to 6 percent.
Mr. Perriss, too, expects increases in ad spending in 2002.
"Next year looks a lot better," he said, with a gain in worldwide ad spending in the major media of 6.5 percent compared with 2001, and a gain in American ad spending in the major media of 4.5 percent.
Mr. Coen, in his first forecasts for 2002, predicted a gain in worldwide ad spending of 5.2 percent from this year and a gain in American ad spending of 5 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%) ADVERTISING; FINANCES; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (66%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES; MERRILL LYNCH & CO 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: PERRISS, JOHN; FINES, LAUREN RICH; COEN, ROBERT J; ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



736 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: Bit of Dissent on Rates At Fed's Meeting in May 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers were split at their meeting last month about how far to go in cutting interest rates, with one of the 10 voting members dissenting from the decision to reduce rates by half a percentage point and two others expressing reservations, according to minutes of the session released today.
 Within the Fed's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee, open divisions are relatively rare, and this one appeared to explain why the Fed subsequently chose to cut rates on Wednesday by a quarter-point rather than the half-point that many economists and investors had been pushing for. 
 The minutes suggested that there had been a vigorous debate within the Fed about whether the series of aggressive rate cuts this year had created a risk of overstimulating the economy and igniting inflation.
At the meeting on May 15, Thomas M. Hoenig, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, Mo., voted against the decision to cut the benchmark federal funds target rate to 4 percent from 4.5 percent. 
Mr. Hoenig said he preferred a quarter-point cut because the Fed had already "added significant liquidity to the economy this year through its cumulatively large easing actions," the minutes said. In Mr. Hoenig's view, holding the rate cut to a quarter-point would have limited "the risks of producing an overly accommodative policy stance and rising inflation over time."
Two other members of the committee also said they would have been comfortable with a quarter-point cut, the minutes said. Those two members were not identified, but several Fed officials have spoken out in recent weeks about the threat of inflation, including Laurence H. Meyer, a Fed governor.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, has indicated repeatedly in public statements over the last few months that he sees little chance of a substantial uptick in inflation, and he presumably led the camp calling for a half-point cut in May.
In a speech in Chicago tonight, Mr. Greenspan suggested some of the inflationary pressures on the economy from higher energy prices might be easing. He also suggested that the squeeze on corporate profits from higher energy costs might be letting up, and he urged political leaders to allow markets to deal with energy shortages rather than pressing for price caps or other regulation.
The minutes of the May meeting suggest that the committee saw itself as coming to near the end of this cycle of rate reductions. While it voted to include in its public statement at the conclusion of that meeting a reiteration of its standard language signaling that further rate cuts were likely, the committee discussed whether that statement should be shifted soon to more neutral language indicating that no further rate cuts were on the horizon.
The debate in May seemed to capture a painful quandary for the Fed. The central bank has administered a powerful dose of anti-recession medicine to the economy. But the medicine has not yet taken effect. 
In the meantime, the economy is continuing to weaken, leaving the Fed with a choice between further rate cuts that might backfire later on or standing by, subject to criticism that it is blind to the continuing deterioration of business conditions, while it waits for its previous rate cuts to kick in.
The quarter-point cut that the Fed announced on Wednesday, and the inclusion of the language signaling that further cuts were possible, appears to have been a compromise. 
Those actions allowed those who see recession to be a greater threat than inflation to say the Fed is continuing to act. But by holding the rate cut to a quarter-point, the central bank also sent a signal that the current round of rate cuts is winding down, as the more inflation-wary members of the committee seemed to want.
But the Fed's own staff forecast for the May meeting showed that the central bank thinks it could be some time before the economy truly gets back on track. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INFLATION (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MONETARY POLICY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF KANSAS CITY (69%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (59%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%) MISSOURI, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



737 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Milosevic in The Hague 

 BODY:
In 1995 Slobodan Milosevic went to Dayton, Ohio, to sign a peace agreement for Bosnia. The Dayton peace accords committed Yugoslavia to cooperate with the International War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague, including transferring those who were indicted. Mr. Milosevic, it is fair to say, had little intention of meeting this obligation. Yet yesterday Yugoslavia kept his promise and transferred him to The Hague for trial. 
 Just nine months ago Mr. Milosevic was an omnipotent dictator. His transfer to a jail cell at The Hague is a historic moment and an affirmation of the importance of international justice. His indictment by the War Crimes Tribunal in 1999 on charges of crimes against humanity hastened his fall from power. His arrest and transfer have strengthened democracy in Yugoslavia and will open the way for the international community to assist in the country's economic reconstruction. 
 Yugoslavia's president, Vojislav Kostunica, who defeated Mr. Milosevic in elections last year, wanted to see him put on trial in Belgrade for election fraud, corruption and other domestic crimes. But more Western-oriented politicians, led by Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic of Serbia, orchestrated his transfer to The Hague.
Mr. Djindjic's position was strengthened by consistent pressure from Washington. The Bush administration made Mr. Milosevic's surrender a condition of American economic aid and participation in a donors' conference that began today. The administration, in turn, was prodded to hold firm by Congress, especially two senators -- Patrick Leahy, a Democrat, and the Republican Mitch McConnell. 
The internecine disagreements about Mr. Milosevic's transfer are likely to set off a political crisis in Yugoslavia. But his extradition may help calm passions in neighboring Macedonia, as it reminds government officials there that they, too, may be called to account for war crimes. The transfer to The Hague may also help Serbs come to terms with the crimes he committed. Polls show that most Serbs wanted to see Mr. Milosevic tried in The Hague, and politicians have uncovered evidence of his crimes to strengthen public support. State television began to show exhumations of mass graves said to contain bodies of people from Kosovo. The evidence has shocked many Serbs, and sparked the beginnings of a debate on Serbian crimes in Kosovo. Such a reckoning is crucial if Serbia is to transform itself into a fully democratic nation.
Yugoslavia must still send to The Hague other men it is harboring who have been indicted for war crimes. But Mr. Milosevic's transfer was a monumental step. A man accused of planning and instigating some of the most heinous crimes in recent years has fallen from near-absolute power to face justice for his acts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); CORRUPTION (77%); TRENDS (74%); ELECTION FRAUD (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); ARRESTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) EDITORIALS; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: PATRICK LEAHY (51%); MITCH MCCONNELL (51%) MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (94%); DAYTON, OH, USA (90%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%) SERBIA (95%); NETHERLANDS (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%) SERBIA; HAGUE (NETHERLANDS)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



738 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Albany Wins Right to Limit Power Prices 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 28 

 BODY:
Seeking to curb profiteering by power plant owners, the federal government has granted New York the power to limit spikes in the price of electricity this summer, to prevent the soaring rates that hit consumers last summer.
 The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission agreed today to the "circuit-breaker" on rising wholesale prices that had been sought by the Pataki administration and the New York Independent System Operator, the consortium that runs the state's power markets. The mechanism -- permitted through Oct. 31 -- will automatically lower a power producer's price bid that is significantly out of line with what it had been charging. 
 New York's energy market, once a tightly controlled monopoly, was opened to wholesale price competition in late 1999, in hopes that competition would lower rates that were among the highest in the country. Last June, in the first weeks of high summer demand, wholesale prices nearly tripled in New York City and consumers' overall bills jumped 40 percent. 
State regulators, legislators, utility officials and consumer advocates have said that price manipulation by power producers was partly to blame. Power producers deny that there was any such manipulation.
Wholesale prices in New York vary widely, depending on the part of the state, the time of day, the weather and other factors. At times they are close to zero, but in weeks like this one, with temperatures in the 90's and air-conditioners working much of the day, the weekday prices in New York City and on Long Island are often above $100 per megawatt-hour.
The circuit-breaker approved today would kick in only when producers seek a wholesale price above $150, a price not frequently sought. For instance, the peak price today was just under $170 per megawatt-hour for the period from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. In contrast, the peak price on Wednesday was less than $65 per megawatt hour. For a peak period on Friday, the wholesale price has already been set at $229 a megawatt hour. 
The fluctuation in prices, however, is not necessarily a sign of manipulation. 
Under the new authority granted the state, if a power plant offers to sell power for $100 or more above its average for the previous 90 days, or for triple that 90-day average, the bid would automatically be reduced to the 90-day average.
That would still allow sudden increases, addressing only the most drastic rises. For instance, a plant that had sold power at a 90-day average price of $105 could abruptly raise its price to $200 without fear of a rollback. The new price would not be $100 above the old price, or more than three times the old price.
Last winter, Gov. George E. Pataki's administration, sensing an economic disaster in the making during the approaching summer, proposed price controls that required federal approval.
While the federal energy commission granted the circuit-breaker mechanism today, it has not yet acted on New York's call for financial penalties for power producers who are found to have manipulated prices. The commission recently granted that power to California's system operator. But, at this point, if New York's regulators find price-gouging, there is nothing they can do about it.
The federal commission "has taken an important step toward protecting energy consumers in New York, but there is more that must be done," Mr. Pataki said tonight in a statement.
Attorney General Eliot L. Spitzer, who also lobbied the federal commission to grant the market controls, said the commission must now agree to penalties for price-gougers. "It's incongruous that they would not extend to us what they extended to California," he said.
Independent Power Producers of New York, a group representing plant owners, noted that the federal commission's order is only in effect through Oct. 31 and said that meant it had reservations about its action.
"We believe that to have a really true, competitive marketplace, it has to be a regional marketplace across state lines, and to put New York generators at a competitive disadvantage defeats that purpose," said Gavin Donohue, executive director of the group.
The chairman of the federal commission, Curtis Hebert Jr., a Bush appointee, came into office this year expressing his opposition to any price controls. He has softened that stance in the face of enormous pressure to do something about the crisis in California, where rising demand, a shortage of supply and price manipulation have led to higher prices and frequent blackouts, the bankruptcy of major utilities and a multibillion-dollar intervention into the power market by the state.
Under deregulation, New York's utilities have sold their power plants to other companies. To supply their customers, the utilities now must buy power from those power producers on the wholesale market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WHOLESALE PRICES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%) FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



739 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Appeals Court Throws Out Order to Split Up Microsoft
A federal appeals court unanimously threw out an order to break up Microsoft while finding that the company had repeatedly abused its monopoly power in the software business.
 The court also chastised the judge overseeing the case and removed him from any further involvement because of his comments about the company and its senior executives. The opinion, welcomed by Microsoft, was also hailed by government officials. Page A1. 

G.E. Offer Is Called Insufficient
European regulators have told General Electric that its last-minute effort to revive its proposed acquisition of Honeywell International will not be sufficient, sounding a death knell for the $45 billion deal. While the stand does not represent a final, official rejection of the deal, it leaves G.E. with only a few days to come up with a new proposal to salvage it. Executives close to General Electric said that the company was unlikely to come back to the table with a new proposal given the timetable. Shares of Honeywell rose $1.20, to $38.20, while G.E. rose 61 cents, to $48.87. C2.

Tobacco Ad Limits Struck Down
The Supreme Court placed significant limits on the ability of state and local governments to regulate tobacco advertising in a Massachusetts case that also appeared to invalidate a similar law in New York City. A1.

Technology Shares Lead Stock Rally
Stocks rallied on brighter hopes for corporate earnings a day after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates. Technology stocks also rallied after the federal appeals court ruling in the Microsoft antitrust case. The Nasdaq composite index gained 50.72 points, or 2.4 percent, to 2,125.46. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 131.37 points, or 1.3 percent, to 10,566.21. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 15.13 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,226.20. C9.

Minutes Show Debate on Rate Cuts
Federal Reserve policy makers were split at their meeting last month about how far to go in cutting interest rates, according to minutes of the meeting. Meanwhile, Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, suggested that some of the inflationary pressures on the economy from higher energy prices might be easing. C9.

Burger King to Monitor Meat Plants
Burger King said that it would begin checking the 160 slaughterhouses from which it buys meat to make sure that all of the animals are carefully stunned before being killed. C9.

Chairman of CNN Resigns
The chairman of CNN, Tom Johnson, who started at the network before it rose to glory with its coverage of the Persian Gulf war, resigned. Mr. Johnson said that he was leaving to spend time with his family. C4.

Editor Is Named at Marie Claire
Lesley Jane Seymour, left, the editor who transformed Redbook from a women's magazine packed with recipes and sniffle remedies into a publication with a mission to spice up the home life of the American working mother, was named the new editor of Marie Claire magazine. Ms. Seymour succeeds Glenda Bailey, who became editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar. All three magazines are published by Hearst. C4.

Talks Intensify in Hollywood
Negotiators representing actors and producers stepped up the pace of their talks this week with a midnight Saturday deadline for the expiration of their contract. C4.

Two Companies Cited in California
California legislators cited two energy companies, Mirant and Enron, for not handing over documents necessary in the state's hearings on market manipulation. A18.

Bus Operator Files for Bankruptcy
Laidlaw, the operator of school buses and the parent of the Greyhound bus lines, said that it was seeking bankruptcy protection as it struggles with debt. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart shows Honeywell's stock progress since last Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,566.21 up 131.37Nasdaq composite -- 2,125.46 up 50.7210-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.33% up 0.10The euro -- $0.8450 down .0159The dollar -- 124.70 yen up 0.42

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (85%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (79%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (79%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (75%); JUDGES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); INFLATION (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (66%); DESERT STORM (60%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%); HON (NYSE) (57%); HON (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



740 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Thorn Had the Say In Rockets' Picks

BYLINE:  By LIZ ROBBINS 

 BODY:
When Rod Thorn, the president of the Nets, emerged from the team's draft strategy room Wednesday night, his face was resolute but he seemed drained from the moves he had made. As it turned out, that was only a preview for yesterday's blockbuster deal that sent Stephon Marbury to Phoenix for Jason Kidd.
 They may not have ended up with shooting guard Jason Richardson, who was drafted fifth over all by Golden State, or kept forward Eddie Griffin, but in the end the Nets received something better: three versatile talents to fit their needs. 
 "We went into the draft last night, trying to get accomplished exactly what we accomplished and those were the guys we were trying to get," Thorn said yesterday. 
When Thorn traded Griffin, the Nets' pick at No. 7, to Houston for the rights to the Rockets' three first-round picks, he then directed Houston to select Arizona swingman Richard Jefferson, Stanford center Jason Collins and Pepperdine guard Brandon Armstrong.
The Nets lacked a cohesive identity during a dismal, injury-ravaged 26-56 season, the sixth time in seven years they missed the playoffs. After selecting Brian Scalabrine, a power forward out of Southern California, with the 35th pick, the Nets were left wondering whether they wagered quality for quantity.
"I feel we got more potential quality at a number of positions," Thorn said. "I feel good about that. We accomplished what we wanted to do. Everybody was happy with the way things worked out."
The three-for-one deal was contingent on the surprise of Griffin dropping to No. 7, but one Eastern Conference league executive said that the Nets were inclined to make a trade to receive Jefferson, Collins and Armstrong anyway.
"We had him going in the top three," Houston General Manager Carroll Dawson said. On their wish list, the Rockets had Griffin ranked first or second, but Dawson said he never even brought up Griffin's name in predraft discussions with Thorn to trade the three picks, thinking it was a moot point.
So did Thorn. "I was a bit surprised yes; I thought he would go to Golden State," Thorn said of Griffin. The Warriors instead drafted Richardson, spoiling the Nets' hopes and fueling Houston's.
"We had known that they wanted a certain person, but if they could not get that person, they might be better off with three picks," Dawson said.
Unable to take Richardson and knowing that the Grizzlies would select Shane Battier, Thorn gambled that Houston would be interested. Working without a deal, but knowing from discussions he had leading up to the draft that the Rockets were willing to unload their first-round picks, Thorn made his selection.
In Houston, Dawson picked up the phone. "Do we have something to talk about?" Dawson recalled Thorn asking.
"We sure do," Dawson responded.
Within 10 minutes, the Rockets had agreed to the trade. The teams kept a phone line open so Thorn could tell the Rockets which players to draft.
The Rockets were not scared off by Griffin's history of fights with teammates, stretching from his senior year at Roman Catholic High School in Philadelphia to Seton Hall in January, when Griffin was suspended for a game after punching Ty Shine.
"It didn't bother us; I can't speak for the other teams," Dawson said. "You do your background checks and we got nothing but good reports."
Jefferson's stock had been rising among league executives, based on his strong workouts and his late-season performance in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Jefferson, a junior, led the Wildcats to the N.C.A.A. championship game, shooting 50 percent and averaging 13.5 points and 6.7 rebounds. He held Richardson and Illinois point guard Frankie Williams to a combined 15 points and 5-of-26 shooting.
"There aren't a whole lot of better athletes than Richard and this year he became our defensive stopper," Arizona Coach Lute Olsen said of Jefferson on Wednesday night.
Thorn said he could see Jefferson making an immediate impact, playing small forward and shooting guard, providing insurance if shooting guard Kerry Kittles cannot fully recover from knee surgery.
"I think he was one of the best athletes in the draft," Thorn said.
Collins, at 7 feet, 260 pounds, will vie for a starting position at center. The Nets started the second-year player Evan Eschmeyer in 51 games, with Jim McIlvaine out for most of the season because of a calf injury. 
The Nets did not bring in Collins for a workout, figuring he would go in the second round -- although they did bring in his twin, Jarron. Jarron Collins was selected by the Utah Jazz with the 53rd pick. Jason is considered the more polished of the two. Thorn saw Jason at the Chicago combine and was impressed with his toughness and his touch. "He can shoot the ball and he's a big, strong kid who plays very hard," Thorn said.
Because of two years of medical redshirts, Jason Collins still had two years of eligibility, but he graduated from Stanford 11 days ago with a degree in economics. He had a frayed meniscus cartilage in his freshman year, and dislocated his right wrist his sophomore year, but he did not miss a game in his last two seasons. "During this process, I did eight workouts in eight straight days, flying from city to city, never once taking a day off," Collins said. "My knee was fine. It hasn't bothered me all season for the past three seasons."
In Armstrong, Thorn sees a reserve shooting guard who can eventually learn to play backup point guard. As it turns out, he will be backing up Kidd.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard Jefferson, right, shot 50 percent in the N.C.A.A. tourney. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); RANKINGS (88%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%) BASKETBALL; TRADES (SPORTS) 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); HOUSTON ROCKETS (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (56%) NEW JERSEY NETS 

PERSON: ROBBINS, LIZ; THORN, ROD; JEFFERSON, RICHARD; COLLINS, JASON; ARMSTRONG, BRANDON; KIDD, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (90%) ARIZONA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



741 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Legislature Passes Budget and Medical Lawsuit Bill 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 28 

 BODY:
In its annual frenzy before the summer recess, the Legislature took action today on more than 200 bills, approving what is being called the nation's strongest law allowing patients to sue their health maintenance organizations and passing a $22.9 billion budget for the coming year.
 But opponents of abortion rights failed to muster the votes needed to put on the November ballot a constitutional amendment requiring parental notification before minors can get abortions. And while the Senate approved a financing plan for a new sports arena in Newark, the General Assembly took no action on the project, leaving its fate uncertain. 
 All 40 Senate and 80 Assembly seats are up for grabs this November, and lawmakers who are running for re-election will use the next five months to campaign. On the last day of the session, however, they packed their agenda with items ranging from an "interior designer certification act" to a resolution condemning the Taliban regime in Afghanistan for requiring Hindus to wear identifying labels. 
Among the notable measures that received final approval were a change in the formula governing the teachers' pension plan, raising the payments to retired teachers by 9 percent, and a law extending the hours of voting, by requiring state polling places to open at 6 a.m. instead of 7.
The medical right-to-sue bill, which easily passed both houses today and awaits Acting Gov. Donald T. DiFrancesco's signature, means New Jersey will be one of a handful of states where patients can sue their H.M.O.'s for denying, or even delaying, approval of medical treatments. But it goes further than some of those states, such as California, by barring insurers from requiring patients to waive future lawsuits as a condition of coverage, officials said.
The bill's passage comes as Congress is considering dueling versions of a patient's bill of rights. The New Jersey bill, which would apply only to state-regulated H.M.O.'s, creates a two-tiered threshold for lawsuits. Patients in the first tier, who could die or suffer serious or irreversible harm if treatment is denied or delayed, could sue immediately. Others would have to go through three stages of appeals first.
Dr. Angelo S. Agro, president of the Medical Society of New Jersey, said that he believed the bill would help patients but also insurers, by cutting down on litigation, especially weak claims. "As a physician, I'm sticking my neck out to go to bat for the patient," he said. "So it's not going to happen in a frivolous sense. And if H.M.O.'s are held accountable for a patient's life, they will think twice about making medical decisions for monetary reasons."
The parental notification amendment actually passed the Senate today, but by a simple majority of 21-15, with four senators not voting. Supporters in the anti-abortion movement had hoped to attain a three-fifths majority, or 24 votes, in order to put the amendment on the November ballot. But the 15 Democratic senators voted against the amendment, and two Republicans who support abortion rights -- John O. Bennett, the minority leader, and Diane Allen, of Burlington County -- abstained. With a simple majority alone, the bill must be approved by the full Legislature in two consecutive years.
As expected, the state budget was approved by both houses, largely along party lines, and is to be signed into law by Mr. DiFrancesco on Friday.
Republicans said the process had been confused because two governors and three state treasurers had overseen its drafting. Leonard Lance, the Republican chairman of the Assembly Budget Committee, complained that the administration had refused to defend its revenue projections when challenged by nonpartisan legislative analysts.
Democrats, meanwhile, called it an election-year budget full of smoke and mirrors, and warned that it failed to account fully for a souring economy. "This budget is supported by pretending that we will have more revenue than we actually will," Assemblywoman Barbara Buono said. "To whom should the next governor forward the bill?"
In the Senate, Democratic efforts to amend it failed, by a 22-to-16 vote, and the entire budget then passed, 26 to 13. William Schluter, who is running for governor as an independent, was the lone Republican opposing it. Sharpe James and Ronald Rice of Newark, and Shirley Turner of Trenton, were the only Democrats to approve the budget.
The vote on the budget in the Senate came after it had approved Mr. DiFrancesco's financing plan for the arena in Newark as a new home for the New Jersey Devils and Nets. The bill would create a special taxing district in Newark to finance the arena's construction.
Assembly Speaker Jack Collins refused to put the arena bill up for a vote today, but he was said to be willing to convene a special session to consider it, if he is able to win economic-development projects for his political base of South Jersey.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Anthony R. Bucco, left, Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., seated, and William L. Gormley yesterday in Trenton, where the New Jersey Legislature passed a bill to allow patients to sue their H.M.O.'s. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); APPROVALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); ABORTION (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); TALIBAN (67%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (57%); RELIGION (52%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (71%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



742 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Claims Decline 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
Initial claims for jobless benefits fell unexpectedly last week, the Labor Department reported today, but the number of people remaining on unemployment payments continued to increase as hiring remained weak.
 Initial claims dropped for the third week, falling by 16,000, to 388,000, in the week ended June 23, from a revised 404,000 the week before -- reaching their lowest level since May 5. 
 Economists expected jobless claims to rise to 412,000 from the 400,000 originally reported in the week ended June 16.
Even though the figures were better than expected, analysts said it was too soon to say that labor market conditions were improving.
"Those who have lost their jobs are having a harder time getting new jobs," said Bryan Jordan, who is an economic analyst at Banc One Investment Advisers in Columbus, Ohio. 
The number of continued claims by unemployed workers who already filed for at least a week of benefits rose to 2.99 million in the week ended June 16, the latest period for which figures were available.
The last time it was that high was in November 1992.
The drop in initial filings for jobless benefits ended a five-week string of claims above 400,000.
Economists say that claims above that level are an indication of a sustained move to higher unemployment.
"We would have to see a few more weeks in the down direction," Mr. Jordan said, "to really get more comfortable that the labor market is tightening again." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (94%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (69%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (54%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (68%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



743 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: The Big City; 
'Other Half' Is Living A Little Better

BYLINE:  By JOHN TIERNEY 

 BODY:
FERNANDO FERRER wants to help "the other New York," he said in announcing his candidacy for mayor on Wednesday. That phrase has a noble ring to it, an echo of the classic advocacy for the poor in "How the Other Half Lives" and "The Other America." But who exactly are the "other" people? And why is it charitable to give them that label?
 Jacob Riis, a newspaperman who could recognize a good phrase, copyrighted the title "How the Other Half Lives" even before he wrote the book. Traditionally, he explained, "the half that was on top cared little for the struggles, and less for the fate of those who were underneath." But now, Riis wrote in his 1890 book, there were missionaries (like himself) devoting lives of "unselfish thought and effort" to rescuing the lower half. 
 Riis obviously cared for the poor, but he never understood them and didn't seem to like them. He had no patience for the poor when their desires conflicted with his. He insisted on banishing them from tenements that offended his sensibilities -- never mind that they wanted to stay in their homes and couldn't pay for his middle-class tastes. How could the other half be expected to know what was good for them?
The poor became objects of his pity and his insulting generalizations. Italians were "content to live in a pig-sty," he wrote, while the Chinese were "in no sense a desirable element of the population." As for Eastern European Jews: "Money is their God. Life itself is of little value compared with even the leanest bank account."
Czechs were spendthrifts and drinkers, he wrote; Irish were peculiarly susceptible to becoming lazy beggars; blacks were carefree. "Poverty, abuse and injustice alike the Negro accepts with imperturbable cheerfulness," Riis wrote. "He loves fine clothes and good living a good deal more than he does a bank account." 
As appalling as Riis could be in his condescension, he did at least see hope for the other half. With better homes, proper education, and hard work (he denounced able-bodied men who subsisted on charity), the poor could acquire the moral character and bourgeois habits of the top half. The other half could eventually join Riis's half.
By 1962, though, the other half had become "The Other America," the title of Michael Harrington's book. The poor were now a still more exotic entity, trapped in their own "fatal, futile universe" in which they "cannot help themselves." Only missionaries like Mr. Harrington could save them, and the key did not lie in Riis's old-fashioned ideas about work. Mr. Harrington called it "degrading" for young men in the ghetto to take minimum-wage jobs.
That philosophy became the norm in New York during the 1960's, as Vincent J. Cannato details in his new book, "The Ungovernable City: John Lindsay and His Struggle to Save New York." The welfare rolls soared during an economic boom, and Lindsay became the photogenic symbol of the white liberal reaching out to those beyond his social circle.
"He was the symbol of noblesse oblige," Mr. Cannato said. "He meant well and felt compassion, but it was compassion without any real knowledge of what was going on in poor neighborhoods."
FOR intellectuals, the other America became an exotic refuge from bourgeois values. Norman Mailer celebrated graffiti in poor neighborhoods, and James Baldwin said that Harlemites who threw garbage out their windows were engaging in social protest. Before long the poor had become the "underclass," which seemed even more alien and hopeless. 
One in six New Yorkers remained on welfare when Rudolph W. Giuliani took office in 1993. He set about cutting the welfare rolls, preaching bourgeois values and promoting a radical new description of the social classes: "one city, one standard."
That philosophy hasn't personally endeared Mr. Giuliani to the city's poorer residents, but they've become more content with their neighborhoods. A survey by the Columbia University School of Social Work, released in March, showed that people's satisfaction with their neighborhoods had improved more dramatically in poor areas than in affluent areas. 
Maybe, as Mr. Ferrer hopes, there are still enough unhappy poor people, and enough nonpoor people with guilty social consciences, to elect a candidate promising expensive new programs for the poor. Maybe Mr. Ferrer, a resident of Riverdale -- not exactly the wrong half of the Bronx -- will succeed by tapping into the alienation he sees in his other New York. 
Or maybe there are a lot of voters starting to wonder whether the people in the other New York are really so different after all. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CHARITIES (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); MEN (71%); TRENDS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN; FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



744 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Dweck to Shut Doors After a 9-Year Run

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
Dweck in New York, an agency known for producing award-winning, attention-getting campaigns for smaller advertisers, said yesterday that it would close after nine years. 
 Michael Dweck, the chairman and creative director, said the closing, which affects 14 employees, was not related to the economic slowdown but rather to a desire to "concentrate on what I love, which is creative development." He said that may entail his taking a creative post at another agency. 
 Dweck had billings estimated in January at $30 million, from clients like Site 59 and UPN. The agency was founded in 1992 as Dweck & Campbell by Mr. Dweck and Lori Campbell, who left in 1999.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%) ADVERTISING; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: DWECK INC 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; DWECK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



745 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: THE HANDOVER OF MILOSEVIC: THE OVERVIEW; 
MILOSEVIC IS GIVEN TO U.N. FOR TRIAL IN WAR-CRIME CASE

BYLINE:  By MARLISE SIMONS with CARLOTTA GALL 

DATELINE: THE HAGUE, the Netherlands, Friday, June 29 

 BODY:
Slobodan Milosevic, the Yugoslav leader blamed for starting four Balkan wars and impoverishing and isolating his country, was delivered early this morning to a prison cell and eventual trial by the United Nations war crimes tribunal here.
 Mr. Milosevic, who was indicted during the 1999 war over Kosovo on charges that his security forces committed war crimes in that province, was the first former head of state delivered by a government to face an international war crimes court. 
 The decision to send him to trial abroad caused deep divisions in Belgrade, both among the democratic leaders elected to replace him last fall and Serbs in general. 
The transfer was executed swiftly by the Serbian government without even informing Mr. Milosevic's successor as Yugoslav president, Vojislav Kostunica. On a downtown Belgrade square that had been the scene of many pro- and anti-Milosevic demonstrations through his violent 13 years of power, thousands of his supporters gathered to vent their anger. 
On Thursday evening, as Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic of Serbia was announcing the surprising transfer, Mr. Milosevic was whisked in a police van from his Belgrade jail and flown on a Serbian government helicopter to an American air base in Tuzla, Bosnia, and from there to a military airfield near The Hague, the seat of the tribunal.
From there, a helicopter took him to a large jail compound, where hundreds of bystanders, many of them exiles driven by war from the former Yugoslavia, applauded outside the prison walls.
Mr. Milosevic was transferred exactly 10 years after the outbreak of war in Slovenia and Croatia, which had declared independence from the old Communist Yugoslavia, and on the fated Serbian holiday of Vidovdan, or St. Vitus's Day, the date in 1389 when Serbs lost a key battle in Kosovo. It was on the 600th anniversary of that battle, on June 28, 1989, that Mr. Milosevic addressed close to a million Serbs in Kosovo, promising to defend their interests, through war if necessary.
There was an immense international outpouring of relief that Mr. Milosevic was in the hands of those who hold him responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of people in the last decade of war in the Balkans.
"Obviously this is an incredibly important moment in the life of this institution," Jim Landale, the spokesman for the tribunal, said as he confirmed that Mr. Milosevic was now officially in its custody. "It is now closer to fulfilling the mission for which it was set up, that is, to deal with the commanders and the architects of the policies that wrought so much havoc and caused so much misery to the people of the Balkans."
In Belgrade, the leaders who pushed through the transfer appeared quietly jubilant, if deeply aware that the move caused divisions that may lead to the fall of their young, fragile and virtually bankrupt government.
Prime Minister Djindjic went on television, telling Serbs that the government had been forced to take a "difficult but morally correct" decision to protect the interests of Serbia. The government badly needs the money only the West -- and particularly the United States -- can offer, and Mr. Djindjic and the Yugoslav deputy prime minister, Miroljub Labus, the country's leading economist, had been the main advocates for handing over Mr. Milosevic.
"To stop the cooperation with the Hague tribunal or to postpone this cooperation would have had major negative consequences for the present and future of our country," Mr. Djindjic said.
The United States had exerted strong pressure that Mr. Milosevic, who was ousted as president in October in a popular uprising, be detained -- as he eventually was on April 1 -- and then delivered to The Hague tribunal.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell spoke with Mr. Djindjic twice in the last week, and warned him that the United States was prepared to boycott a conference in Brussels today if Mr. Milosevic was not delivered to The Hague, a senior State Department official said. The new Yugoslav leaders hope to raise some $1 billion in aid at the conference -- a goal they cannot meet without American participation.
"We made it quite clear that we want to help them," the official said. "But they had obligations, and they had to meet those obligations, and the secretary never wavered from that."
In Washington, President Bush issued a statement calling Mr. Milosevic's transfer to The Hague a "very important step by the leaders in Belgrade."
Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said, "We are witnessing one of the most significant events in postwar European history, where a nation has voluntarily turned over to an international tribunal for trial one of the most dangerous and maniacal European leaders since Hitler." 
Richard C. Holbrooke, who negotiated intensively with Mr. Milosevic to reach the 1995 Dayton accords that ended the Bosnian war, said he was very pleased that the former Yugoslav leader "is on his way to a well-deserved detention and trial."
Mr. Holbrooke said the tribunal should now expand its inquiry into Mr. Milosevic's role in Bosnia between 1992 and 1995, including the massacre in Srebrenica in July 1995, where as many as 7,000 Muslims are thought to have been killed after Bosnian Serb forces took over what was supposed to be an enclave with United Nations protection.
The commander at Srebrenica, Gen. Ratko Mladic, and the Bosnian Serb political leader Radovan Karadzic -- each indicted twice by the tribunal on charges of war crimes and genocide -- remain at large, most likely in Bosnia, despite the presence of tens of thousands of NATO troops.
Mr. Holbrooke and the tribunal's chief prosecutor, Carla Del Ponte, each said on Thursday night that Mr. Karadzic and General Mladic must be arrested and brought to The Hague.
Timothy McFadden, the chief of the tribunal detention center, said in an interview this week that the former president would be isolated at least initially from other inmates. It was not clear when Mr. Milosevic would be brought to court and formally charged, but that hearing was expected within days.
Mr. Djindjic, noting that Mr. Milosevic basically called Serbs to war in his famous Kosovo speech 12 years ago, said this led only to "12 years of wars, catastrophe and ruin for our country."
The transfer decision was intended to save Serbia "not so much for ourselves and for our parents, but for our children," the prime minister said. "With this decision, we are saving the future of our children."
The Serbian government took things into its own hands on Thursday afternoon after the Yugoslav Constitutional Court ruled that a government decree adopted on Saturday and committing the country to cooperating with the Hague tribunal was unconstitutional. 
The government leaders had anticipated the court ruling; Mr. Djindjic called a cabinet meeting and used an article in the Serbian Constitution -- ironically written in on Mr. Milosevic's orders when he was president of Serbia in 1990 -- that allowed it to override the Yugoslav ruling.
Fifteen ministers voted to transfer Mr. Milosevic to The Hague, and one voted against, Mr. Djindjic said. Of the six ministers who were absent, five supported the move, and one opposed it, he said.
The Constitutional Court that declared the decree on cooperation with the Hague illegal was the same court that tried to annul the election results in September when Mr. Kostunica, leader of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, defeated Mr. Milosevic in Yugoslav presidential elections.
The decision to move Mr. Milosevic sharpened the differences between Mr. Kostunica and the rest of the leaders in the multi-party alliance. Mr. Kostunica, who has criticized the Hague tribunal for anti-Serb bias, had been slow to draft a law on cooperation with it, to the point that he has been accused of jeopardizing financial aid and the international standing of the country.
Mr. Kostunica went on television later last evening to address the nation, calling it an "extremely difficult and fateful moment for our country."
He said that the problem had been "unnecessarily and unwisely created," and that the removal of Mr. Milosevic could not be considered legal or constitutional. He likened Mr. Djindjic's tactics to the "lawless and hasty acts" of the Milosevic regime and warned that the consequences were dangerous. Those indicted at The Hague deserved a chance to appeal in their own country, he said.
"Yugoslavia deserves better," he said. "Those measures endanger our country, its citizens, and also the damaged peace in our region."
Dragoslav Ognjanovic, one of Mr. Milosevic's lawyers, arrived at the Belgrade prison where his client had been held on Thursday night only to find the former leader gone. "This behavior is savage," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic of Serbia, center with some of his cabinet, announced in Belgrade yesterday the government's decision to send Slobodan Milosevic to the United Nations war crimes tribunal at The Hague. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRISONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INDICTMENTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); TRENDS (70%); POLITICS (70%); RIOTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SIMONS, MARLISE; GALL, CARLOTTA; MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN; DJINDJIC, ZORAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (95%); THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%) SERBIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (96%); KOSOVO (94%); NETHERLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CROATIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%) SERBIA; KOSOVO (SERBIA); HAGUE (NETHERLANDS); BELGRADE (SERBIA)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



746 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
CONAGRA PROFITS FALL 38% IN ITS FOURTH QUARTER

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 ConAgra Foods Inc. said yesterday that fourth-quarter profit fell 38 percent because of higher energy and marketing costs and inventory reductions by grocers. 
ConAgra, based in Omaha, said it spent more to promote food products, including Butterball turkeys and Chef Boyardee pasta, just as the economy slowed. Reduced profits from its seed, pesticide and fertilizer businesses contributed to the second consecutive quarterly decline in profit. Sales in the quarter rose 4.7 percent from the period a year earlier, to $6.44 billion, in part because of its acquisition of International Home Foods. Income in the quarter ended May 27 fell to $121.4 million, or 23 cents a share, from $195.1 million, or 41 cents, a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (91%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (87%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (85%); FERTILIZERS (84%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: CONAGRA FOODS INC (95%); INTERNATIONAL HOME FOODS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CONAGRA INC 

TICKER: CAG (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS311710 SEAFOOD PRODUCT PREPARATION & PACKAGING (95%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (95%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (95%); SIC2092 PREPARED FRESH OR FROZEN FISH & SEAFOODS (95%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (95%); SIC2032 CANNED SPECIALTIES (57%) SIC2048 OTHER PREPARED FEEDS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: OMAHA, NE, USA (74%) NEBRASKA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



747 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4701 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The New York Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "ABCD: A COLLECTION OF ART BRUT," Museum of American Folk Art, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 977-7170 (through July 22). Memorably vivid and widely abused, the phrase Art Brut (meaning raw or rough art) was coined in the 1940's by the French artist Jean Dubuffet. This exhibition, drawn from the holdings of a Paris-based foundation, tries to reinstate his original meaning, revisiting the amazing pantheon of artists who inspired it and proposing some additions. Its many highlights include works by acknowledged greats like Adolf Wolfli, Aloise Corbaz, Henry Darger and Augustin Lesage, but the show also introduces many equally riveting artists unfamiliar to American audiences. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Roberta Smith).

* "AFRICAN FORMS," Museum for African Art, 593 Broadway, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 966-1313 (through Aug. 8). This show forgoes the figurative sculptures and masks that made African art a foundation of Western modernism to concentrate on supposedly humbler stuff, objects of physical adornment and daily use. With some 400 objects created by 156 ethnic groups, it proceeds in clusters of related carved wood neck rests, stools and boxes; ivory hairpins and snuff bottles; all kinds of jewelry; baskets and ceramic vessels; and spoons, weapons and musical instruments. The show is pervaded by an elegance, an economy of form and a sensitivity to materials that is both intensely spiritual and protomodern. Figurative sculpture and masks may be the "high art" of Africa, but there is no low. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2.50, students and 65+ (Smith).

* AFRICAN GALLERIES, Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (on long-term view). The museum has one of the oldest and most important collections of African art in the country. Just a few years ago, 250 objects from the permanent collection were installed in revamped first-floor galleries; now two dozen pieces have been added and the space has been redesigned again, this time with multicolored walls, mural-size color photographs, documentary films and ambient sound. Added works expand the definition of African to include both Morocco and ancient Nubia. And the overall selection, from familiar friends to treasures recently acquired, is thrilling. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (to 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $4; $2, students and 62+ (Holland Cotter).

* "AFRICAN, OCEANIC AND ANCIENT AMERICAN ART: RECENT ACQUISITIONS," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through Oct. 28). One of the best new group shows in the city -- stimulating to mind and eye -- is sitting smack in the middle of the Michael C. Rockefeller Wing at the Met, and you've probably never seen the likes of much of what's in it. The 70 pieces all came to the Met as gifts or purchases over the last five years. They take many forms, from devotional icons to notebook drawings to Sunday-best hats, and they span centuries and continents, from a tiny Mexican ceramic mask made around the ninth century B.C. to a hummingbird-colored silk mantle woven in Madagascar in 1998. A bottom line to such diversity? Almost everything here was meant to have some contact with the human body: to be worn, carried, caressed. This is art with the velvet ropes down. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 65+ (Cotter).

"AZTLAN TODAY: THE CHICANO POSTNATION," Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, (718) 681-6000 (through Sept. 9). Removed in time from the intensely political art of the Chicano civil rights era, almost everything in this show of recent work takes the form of conceptually based photography and video. The tone is low-key; the polish is high. A stance of rooted historical witness has been replaced by ambiguity. Ethnic identity is treated alternately with shrewd comic flair, tender theatricality or autobiographical intimacy. The work is strong; of particular interest is the way it suggests subtle changes in the nature of political art through the 1990's. Hours: Wednesdays noon to 9 p.m.; Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $3; $2, students and 65+ (Cotter).

* "BEAUTY, HONOR AND TRADITION: THE LEGACY OF PLAINS INDIAN SHIRTS," Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian, George Gustav Heye Center, 1 Bowling Green, Lower Manhattan, (212) 514-3700 (through Nov. 4). To Plains Indians of the 18th and 19th centuries, magnificently decorated hide shirts were symbols of bravery earned only by the most courageous in battle. Obsessively fringed and embellished with porcupine quills, paint, ribbon, hair and, later, tight patterns of colored glass beads, the shirts took on the spirits of their owners and even today are made for wearing at powwows and in recognition of other accomplishments. Celebrating the power of this glory gear, almost 50 dazzlers in the museum's collection are on view, dating from about 1820 to the 1990's. Among the more fascinating examples are a brilliantly painted Crow shirt (1890) with beadwork in geometric patterns and frizzy fringes of dyed magenta and yellow hair and a Lakota shirt, circa 1890, which carries United States Army insignia, the American flag and stepped tepees topped by crosses, all worked in porcupine quills and metal beads. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily; Thursdays to 8 p.m. Free. (Grace Glueck).

* JACQUES AND NATASHA GELMAN GALLERIES, Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5000 (continuing). These glorious new galleries display 50 French modern works, almost all paintings, drawn from the Gelmans' collection. In addition to the paintings here, the collection includes five sculptures, more than 30 drawings and a major work on paper: a Matisse cutout, the Met's first, which will be shown in a subsequent hanging. The standouts installed here include Matisse's Fauve masterpiece "The Young Sailor II"; a matched set of small, classic Cubist paintings, one by Picasso, one by Braque, both from 1911, arguably the high point of their collaboration; and a fantastically refined, sexually fraught 1929 Dali, "Accommodations of Desires." It is a selection that is not only consistent in its high quality but also, for all the big names and visual firepower, surprisingly personal. It makes the museum a modern art destination in a way that it has never quite been before. Hours and admission: See above (Smith).

* "EL GRECO: THEMES AND VARIATIONS," Frick Collection, 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700 (through July 29). This gemlike single-digit exhibition (just seven canvases) outweighs some of the more grandiose shows in New York museums at the moment. It brings together, mostly for the first time, four versions of the artist's tumultuous "Purification of the Temple," which provide a vivid time line of his transcultural development, and three versions of his resonant portrait of St. Jerome as a cardinal, which were all painted toward the end of his life when he skillfully copied -- always with interesting differences -- his works for private patrons. The show makes its small oval gallery reverberate with thoughts about painting: as craft, thought, commodity and lifelong pursuit. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $5, students and 62+ (Smith).

* "FRANK GEHRY, ARCHITECT," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through Aug. 26). A full-dress retrospective that showcases history unfolding, even as we walk through it. Mr. Gehry has shown that even in architecture, a form notoriously resistant to creativity, it is possible not only to realize a personal vision but also to gain wide public support for it. The show is a tribute to the ideal of service: to an art form, to the city and to the continuous reconstruction of a democratic way of life. Nothing, not even familiarity with Mr. Gehry's buildings, can prepare you for the impact of seeing his work in Frank Lloyd Wright's magnificent rotunda. The energy hits you on entering the show and increases as you proceed. Hours: Fridays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, to 8 p.m. Admission: $12; $8, students and 65+ (Herbert Muschamp).

* WILLIAM KENTRIDGE, New Museum of Contemporary Art, 583 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 219-1222 (through Sept. 16). By way of drawings and film animations, Mr. Kentridge addresses in searing images South Africa and its racial problems, along with the longings and frustrations of bourgeois lives played out in the country's deeply dysfunctional setting. The exhibition begins with his jarring "Shadow Procession" (1999), a ragtag parade of silhouetted moving images projected on a big screen, which evokes the displaced and dispossessed who haunt not only South Africa but also the history of the world. At the heart of the show are his drawings and the short animated films he makes of them, in which the process shares importance with the content. Many of the films contrast the lives of two antiheroes, one a crude rapacious businessman, the other a sensitive artist, in compelling medleys of images that touch on the personal and the political. Departing from this format is "Ubu Tells the Truth" (1997), a highly charged satire based on the hearings of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, set up in 1995 to investigate human rights abuses during the apartheid era. It's not often that good art is shaped from such raw angry material, but Mr. Kentridge's powers of invention are equal to the challenge. Hours: Wednesdays and Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.; Thursdays through Saturdays, noon to 8 p.m. Admission: $6; $3, students, artists and 65+ (Grace Glueck).

* "MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE CLEVELAND MUSEUM OF ART," Morgan Library, 29 East 36th Street, (212) 685-0610 (through Aug. 19). From Michelangelo to Louise Bourgeois, from Rembrandt to Franz Kline, this cornucopia of drawings from one of the most important collections in the United States bristles with the work of stellar talents. A standout is a double-sided drawing in red chalk by Michelangelo, probably done around 1510-11. One side reveals the trouble he had sketching a foot that fits the position of a youthful male nude on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel; the other shows the headless nude itself, a powerful, ingeniously posed figure that emphasizes the sculptor's magnificent grasp of anatomical rendering. A rare compositional drawing by Fra Filippo Lippi, a subtly toned landscape by Claude Lorrain, a scene of battling horses by Gericault, a stately portrait by Ingres, one of Seurat's brilliant black crayon drawings of a French vaudeville scene, and works by Degas and Toulouse-Lautrec are among the highlights. The 20th-century American group is something of a disappointment, but there is enough great stuff from other eras to make this a masterpiece of a show. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, 10:30 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $8; $6, students and 65+ (Glueck).

"PRECIOUS POSSESSIONS: TREASURES FROM THE LIBRARY OF THE JEWISH THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY," Jewish Theological Seminary, 3080 Broadway, at 122nd Street, (212) 678-8082 (through Sept. 24). These 90 or so charismatic entries date from the 11th to 20th century and come from all over the world. Almost every item has a story to tell or a name to drop. Want to see Maimonides's signature? Sigmund Freud's bookplate? A handwritten score by Leonard Bernstein? They're here. So are some spectacular illuminated manuscripts, minute and colossal, and objects that carry the warmth of ordinary life: marriage contracts, postcards and a 13th-century letter from a man in India to his wife in Egypt, assuring her of his unbroken devotion. Hours: Sundays, noon to 7 p.m.; Mondays through Thursdays, 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Fridays, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free (Cotter)

* "19TH- AND 20TH-CENTURY CHINESE PAINTINGS FROM THE ROBERT H. ELLSWORTH COLLECTION," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue at 82nd Street, (212) 879-5500 (through Aug. 19). The 19th and 20th centuries were shattering times for China, bringing wars, civil violence and the fall of an empire. In art, old forms survived and flourished but also changed. This exhibition surveys how elite painting traditions developed for a new audience and under Western influences from 1850 to 1980. Among the highlights is a group of paintings by Qi Baishi (1864-1957), deservedly one of the most popular of all Chinese artists. The big news is that a major museum has quietly taken a firm stand on modern art in Asia, seeing it not as a postscript to a great tradition but as an integral, living part of the continuum. Hours and admission: See above (Cotter).

"TOURING WEST: 19TH-CENTURY PERFORMING ARTISTS ON THE OVERLAND TRAILS," New York Public Library, Fifth Avenue at 42nd Street, (212) 869-8089 (through July 7). A broad range of theatrical ephemera, among much else, traces the birth of the American entertainment industry in the westward progress of several generations of intrepid actors, singers and lecturers, and provides significant glimpses of the larger stage of history as well. Hours: Mondays, and Thursdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m. Free (Smith).

* "UNIFORM: ORDER AND DISORDER," P.S. 1 Center for Contemporary Art, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through Sept. 3). Originally shown in Italy, this exhibition traces the changing forms and symbolism of the modern military uniform as it progresses through the larger culture and is transformed by it: alternately respected and violated, examined and absorbed, abbreviated and exaggerated. The perpetrators include artists like Wolfgang Tillmans, Vanessa Beecroft and Maurizio Cattelan; fashion designers like Prada, Versace and Donna Karan; and scores of terrorists, punks and nameless teenagers. Eight well-stocked vitrines present a plethora of supporting material, much of which is also reproduced in a stylish catalog. The exhibition ends with the real thing: a gantlet of the uniforms and head gear -- from fatigues to parade dress -- worn by members of the different Italian military services. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5 (Smith).

Galleries: Uptown

LOCKWOOD DE FOREST, Richard York, 21 East 65th Street, (212) 772-9155 (through July 27). By no means a name to reckon with in the pantheon of American view makers, de Forest (1850-1932) specialized in unpretentious small sketches meant to convey the feeling of a place rather than dwell on its physical attributes. His work, until recently kept mostly in family hands, was a visual diary of his many wanderings. In contrast to the taste of the time, he regarded his sketches as finished works, focusing, even in exotic locations like Egypt, India, Syria, Greece and Mexico, on village life, stretches of dunes, desert rocks, tree-lined shores and distant mountains bathed in fog. For those who like their countrysides relaxed and uninvasive, this show will appeal (Glueck).

ALEX KATZ, Adam Baumgold, 74 East 79th Street, (212) 861-7338 (through July 13). Though famous mainly for his large, elegantly flattened and simplified pictures of beautiful, well-to-do people, Mr. Katz also has a lovely touch on a small scale. This modest but rewarding show with mostly small pictures of women as well as some funky little collages from the 1950's shows to advantage his delicate brushwork, perfect compositional sense and controlled eroticism (Ken Johnson).

MAX KUEHNE, "Artist and Craftsman," Hollis Taggart, 48 East 73rd Street, (212) 628-4000 (through July 13). A student of Robert Henri, Kuehne (1880-1968) was a competent painter, but his most distinctive contribution was his production of well-made richly decorative furniture, picture frames and wood carvings. Under influences ranging from Japanese to Art Nouveau, he incised outlines of flora and fauna into gessoed surfaces and added colored glazes and burnished metal leaf. The most engaging pieces here are a pair of smoothly carved, elegantly humorous silver giraffes (Johnson).

* "POP ART: THE JOHN AND KIMIKO POWERS COLLECTION," Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 77th Street, (212) 744-2313 (through Aug. 31). With his Japanese-born wife, Kimiko, John Powers (1916-1999), a former president of the Prentice-Hall publishing company, gathered a big-bang collection of Pop Art by the movement's stars. The 26 objects shown here, including works by Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns, Claes Oldenburg, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol and James Rosenquist, are mostly from the 1960's, and they bring a whole era back into vivid focus. Among the signature works are Warhol's serial extravaganza, "200 Soup Cans" (1962); Mr. Rauschenberg's "Broadcast" (1959), a combine painting with a working radio attached; and Mr. Oldenburg's soft "Drum Set" (1967), a bodylike sendup of a professional drummer's instruments in vinyl and canvas that droops on a platform in a metaphor for its own spent energy. Collectors' collectors, the Powerses made the pursuit into an art of their own (Glueck).

Galleries: 57th Street

MORRIS GRAVES, "Still Life," Schmidt Bingham, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 888-1122 (through Aug. 17). This small retrospective honors a great American original who died last month at 90. Ranging from vigorously palette-knifed paintings of drinking fountains, from the 1930's, to exquisitely delicate pictures of flowers in transparent bottles from the 90's, it gives a fine taste of Graves's craftsmanly versatility and his modest yet intense poetic sensibility (Johnson).

ALEXANDER LIBERMAN, "Maquettes for Monuments," Ameringer/Howard, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 935-1110 (through Aug. 10). In the late 1960's, this Modernist sculptor and Conde Nast editorial director produced gigantic abstractions using old, unearthed gas pipes. On view here are sleek little copies of those monumental works, compositions of standing, leaning or tumbling cylinders finished in glossy red or matte rust-colored patina. Though not deeply consequential, they are appealingly precious (Johnson).

"SIGNS OF LIFE," Ramis Barquet, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 644-9090 (through July 27). This disjunctive but interesting six-artist show includes lively, comically erotic semi-abstract pink paintings by Fernanda Brunet; tires with treads recarved into traditional decorative motifs by Betsabee Romero; strangely clinical photographs of a man in his underwear by Ernesto Pujol; small, iconic realist paintings by Marco Arce; a droopy shaped painting by Leda Catunda; and a funny video by Ximena Cuevas in which the artist breathlessly practices introducing herself to the video curator John Hanhardt (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

LEIF KATH, DCA Gallery, 525 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-5511 (through July 14). Blots, dots and linear markings cavort in these paintings and works on paper by the Danish-born Mr. Kath. Although they state nothing beyond their own presence, they make a strong visual showing, as in "San Cataldo," a suite of seven ink drawings. It has as its common theme bold white circles of different sizes strategically scattered on black grounds of varying density. All told, the works on paper are more impressive than the modest-size paintings (Glueck).

Galleries: SoHo

* "BETWEEN STREET AND MIRROR: THE DRAWINGS OF JAMES ENSOR," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166 (through July 21). The show's pleasure partly involves serendipity. This feels like the perfect moment for an oddball like Ensor, but maybe any time would feel like the right time for somebody whose work, whether it is appalling or fantastic (and it can be both simultaneously), looks eternally modern. The drawings are from the 1880's and 90's. Some started out as ordinary sketches of household objects to which faces and monsters were added, like Rorschachs of the artist's imagination. They somehow become more luminous and translucent the more densely they are drawn, an extraordinary paradox. On the other hand, when the drawings aren't dense, they can be vaporous like Turners, with an effect akin to looking back on a dream: you can't quite place what you are seeing. But the emotion the images provoke is stronger precisely because of the frustration attached to it. Ensor is one of those artists Americans tend to forget or never really knew properly. A hero in Europe, he is vastly deserving of reappraisal here, and this excellent exhibition is a place to start (Michael Kimmelman).

RACHEL LEE HOVNANIAN, "Isolation Beauty," David Beitzel, 102 Prince Street, (212) 219-2863 (through July 20). In a simplifying style indebted in part to Alex Katz, Ms. Hovnanian paints the people, places and things of a comfortably privileged life. At her best, as in the nocturnal view of two white chairs under a yellow umbrella at the side of a glowing swimming pool, she conjures up a mysterious state of lonely suspension (Johnson).

Other Galleries

* "COTE D'AZUR: ART, MODERNITY AND THE MYTH OF THE FRENCH RIVIERA," AXA Gallery, 787 Seventh Avenue, at 51st Street, (212) 554-4818 (through July 14). "A dream space created by artists for the 20th century" is how Kenneth E. Silver, author of the book that spawned this show, describes the French Riviera. And to prove the point, more than 70 works by 40 artists are on view, from Matisse and Picasso to the photographer Jacques-Henri Lartigue and the architect Le Corbusier and including more contemporary talents like Yves Klein and Eric Fischl. Rail access opened up the long-neglected southern coast to commerce and tourism in the 1860's, and the first artists, Renoir and Monet, arrived there in 1883 for a two-week tour. They evidently spread the word, for by the time of World War I the coast had become a mecca for artists whose palettes thrived on the dazzling quality of the light and the clear, fresh colors of the sky, water and vegetation. The Cote d'Azur's heyday is deftly covered, but one caveat: why clutter this persuasive survey, which really celebrates the coast as a garden of European modernism, with recent and peripheral works by a group of American artists? (Glueck).

TONY CRAGG, "Turbo-Ferryman," Doris C. Freedman Plaza, Fifth Avenue and 60th Street, (212) 980-4575 (through October). This year's Public Art Fund installation here consists of two bulbous bronze sculptures by a consistently interesting British sculptor. One is a perforated, biomorphic, bottlelike form with wiggly arms going in and out of its body; the other is a big, asymmetrical shape, like a toy top with odd lumpy places. In a gallery, either would be fine; outdoors, they look too small. If one or the other were five times larger, it would be terrific (Johnson).

"FACES AND FIGURES: CONTEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHY IN SCANDINAVIA," Scandinavia House, 58 Park Avenue, near 38th Street, (212) 779-3587 (through July 29). Nordic photography makes a good showing here with a mix of established and lesser- known talents using a range of approaches, from documentary to personal diary. The aim is to dispel stereotypes about "coolness, control and psychic remoteness" in the words of Ann Sass, chief curator. And the show succeeds, with a humanscape of transvestite haunts in Paris, high jinks in Swedish suburbs, hunting and farming in Iceland, plain folk at home in Sweden, Christmas in Finland, prostitutes plying their trade in Denmark and children frolicking in Norway (Glueck).

Last Chance

* VIJA CELMINS, McKee, 745 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 688-5951 (through today). Ms. Celmins just keeps making the same old thing: paintings that are at once rigorously formal and expansively illusory, quietly transcendental and materially sumptuous. This spare, beautifully installed exhibition features eight easel-size paintings: six of starry night skies and two of blurrily luminous spider webs. In the print room, crisp wood engravings of rippling ocean surfaces look like 19th-century illustrations for "Moby-Dick" (Johnson).

RALSTON CRAWFORD, "Phantom Forms," Laurence Miller Gallery, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 397-3930 (through today). This hard-edge painter often used his camera to record subjects taken up in paintings, but more often his photographs stood on their own. This small show of a dozen or so is a sampling from thousands produced by the artist over the years. His focus in most of the pictures is the play between light and shadow, as in "Buffalo" (1942), a view of the complex linear patterns cast by iron gratings and a lighting fixture on sunlit cement walls. More mysterious is "New Orleans" (circa 1961), in which a wall of peeling paint contrasts with a smooth white one. The appeal lies in the ambiguity of the hard-edge markings on the walls: shadows or substance? (Glueck).

* STEPHEN DEAN, Henry Urbach Architecture, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-0974 (through today). One of the most impressive debuts of the season is that of Mr. Dean, a young French-American artist whose obsession with intense, saturated color has taken him to India, where color is intrinsic to daily life. One result is "Pulse," a painterly, almost unbelievably gorgeous video of the annual spring Holi festival, when residents douse one another with colored powders and water until the streets flow with color (Smith).

"A FAMILY ALBUM: BROOKLYN COLLECTS," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (through Sunday). This big, uneven but frequently transcendental grab bag of an exhibition celebrates collectors of art or antiques who live in Brooklyn or come from there. Eighty-six collectors of all stripes lent some of their prized possessions. The grand, wildly pluralistic total of more than 300 items includes ancient Egyptian heads, Navajo rugs, 20th-century kitsch and 21st-century avant-gardism. The exhibition covers all the bases and includes some real masterpieces, like an early Miroesque painting by de Kooning or a vividly realistic Roman portrait of a worried-looking man from 40-20 B.C. Hours and admission: See above Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 am. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of the month). Admission: $4; $2, students and 62+ (Johnson).

KEITH HARING, Skarstedt, 1018 Madison Avenue, near 79th Street, (212) 737-2060 (through tomorrow). Promiscuously generous an artist as he was, Haring was also very uneven. This exhibition of just four medium-large canvases from the early 1980's shows him at his best. Two in particular suggest the vision of a modern Bosch. Densely populated by manically interactive demons, monsters and little men, they combine graphic ingenuity, mythic narrative and erotic polymorphism to exhilarating effect (Johnson).

* SHIRIN NESHAT, Barbara Gladstone Gallery, 515 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 206-9300 (through today). Three videos isolate themes or devices that Ms. Neshat previously deployed in combination, to more impressive effect. The strongest video is "Possessed," which gains from its Philip Glass score and touches on the artist's main theme -- the plight of women in traditional Muslim societies. The near pitch-dark "Pulse" creates an aura of poetic ambiguity for the viewer to unravel, while "Passages" has groups of bare-headed men and chador-clad women, in separate groups, in a dramatic setting. United, these qualities succeed; divided, they are far less engaging (Smith).

GRAPHIC: Photos: A large detail from James Ensor's "My Aunt Asleep and Dreaming of Monsters," in a show of his work at the Drawing Center in SoHo. (Drawing Center); A detail from William Kentridge's "Felix in Pool With Megaphone." (New Museum of Contemporary Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (66%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); MUSIC (50%); ETHNICITY (50%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (50%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFRICA (79%); MOROCCO (70%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



748 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 4645 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VS. MICROSOFT; 
Key Sections of the Decision by the United States Court of Appeals

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from yesterday's decision by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in the Microsoft antitrust case:
 . . . After carefully considering the voluminous record on appeal -- including the District Court's Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law, the testimony and exhibits submitted at trial, the parties' briefs, and the oral arguments before this court -- we find that some but not all of Microsoft's liability challenges have merit. Accordingly, we affirm in part and reverse in part the District Court's judgment that Microsoft violated Sec. 2 of the Sherman Act by employing anticompetitive means to maintain a monopoly in the operating system market; we reverse the District Court's determination that Microsoft violated Sec. 2 of the Sherman Act by illegally attempting to monopolize the Internet browser market; and we remand the District Court's finding that Microsoft violated Sec. 1 of the Sherman Act by unlawfully tying its browser to its operating system. Our judgment extends to the District Court's findings with respect to the state law counterparts of the plaintiffs' Sherman Act claims. 
 We also find merit in Microsoft's challenge to the Final Judgment embracing the District Court's remedial order. There are several reasons supporting this conclusion. First, the District Court's Final Judgment rests on a number of liability determinations that do not survive appellate review; therefore, the remedial order as currently fashioned cannot stand. Furthermore, we would vacate and remand the remedial order even were we to uphold the District Court's liability determinations in their entirety, because the District Court failed to hold an evidentiary hearing to address remedies-specific factual disputes.
Finally, we vacate the Final Judgment on remedies, because the trial judge engaged in impermissible ex parte contacts by holding secret interviews with members of the media and made numerous offensive comments about Microsoft officials in public statements outside of the courtroom, giving rise to an appearance of partiality. Although we find no evidence of actual bias, we hold that the actions of the trial judge seriously tainted the proceedings before the District Court and called into question the integrity of the judicial process. We are therefore constrained to vacate the Final Judgment on remedies, remand the case for reconsideration of the remedial order, and require that the case be assigned to a different trial judge on remand.

I. INTRODUCTION
B. Overview
. . . The litigation timeline in this case is hardly problematic. Indeed, it is noteworthy that a case of this magnitude and complexity has proceeded from the filing of complaints through trial to appellate decision in a mere three years.
What is somewhat problematic, however, is that just over six years have passed since Microsoft engaged in the first conduct plaintiffs allege to be anticompetitive. As the record in this case indicates, six years seems like an eternity in the computer industry. By the time a court can assess liability, firms, products, and the marketplace are likely to have changed dramatically. This, in turn, threatens enormous practical difficulties for courts considering the appropriate measure of relief in equitable enforcement actions, both in crafting injunctive remedies in the first instance and reviewing those remedies in the second. Conduct remedies may be unavailing in such cases, because innovation to a large degree has already rendered the anticompetitive conduct obsolete (although by no means harmless). And broader structural remedies present their own set of problems, including how a court goes about restoring competition to a dramatically changed, and constantly changing, marketplace. That is just one reason why we find the District Court's refusal in the present case to hold an evidentiary hearing on remedies -- to update and flesh out the available information before entertaining the possibility of structural relief -- so problematic. . . . 

II. MONOPOLIZATION
. . . We begin by considering whether Microsoft possesses monopoly power, and finding that it does, we turn to the question whether it maintained this power through anticompetitive means. Agreeing with the District Court that the company behaved anticompetitively, and that these actions contributed to the maintenance of its monopoly power, we affirm the court's finding of liability for monopolization.

A. Monopoly Power
While merely possessing monopoly power is not itself an antitrust violation, it is a necessary element of a monopolization charge. The Supreme Court defines monopoly power as "the power to control prices or exclude competition." More precisely, a firm is a monopolist if it can profitably raise prices substantially above the competitive level. Where evidence indicates that a firm has in fact profitably done so, the existence of monopoly power is clear. Because such direct proof is only rarely available, courts more typically examine market structure in search of circumstantial evidence of monopoly power. Under this structural approach, monopoly power may be inferred from a firm's possession of a dominant share of a relevant market that is protected by entry barriers. "Entry barriers" are factors that prevent new rivals from timely responding to an increase in price above the competitive level.
The District Court considered these structural factors and concluded that Microsoft possesses monopoly power in a relevant market. Defining the market as Intel-compatible PC operating systems, the District Court found that Microsoft has a greater than 95 percent share. It also found the company's market position protected by a substantial entry barrier.
Microsoft argues that the District Court incorrectly defined the relevant market. It also claims that there is no barrier to entry in that market. Alternatively, Microsoft argues that because the software industry is uniquely dynamic, direct proof, rather than circumstantial evidence, more appropriately indicates whether it possesses monopoly power. Rejecting each argument, we uphold the District Court's finding of monopoly power in its entirety.

2. Direct Proof
Having sustained the District Court's conclusion that circumstantial evidence proves that Microsoft possesses monopoly power, we turn to Microsoft's alternative argument that it does not behave like a monopolist. Claiming that software competition is uniquely "dynamic," the company suggests a new rule: that monopoly power in the software industry should be proven directly, that is, by examining a company's actual behavior to determine if it reveals the existence of monopoly power. According to Microsoft, not only does no such proof of its power exist, but record evidence demonstrates the absence of monopoly power. The company claims that it invests heavily in research and development, and charges a low price for Windows (a small percentage of the price of an Intel-compatible PC system and less than the price of its rivals.)
Microsoft's argument fails because, even assuming that the software market is uniquely dynamic in the long term, the District Court correctly applied the structural approach to determine if the company faces competition in the short term. Structural market power analyses are meant to determine whether potential substitutes constrain a firm's ability to raise prices above the competitive level; only threats that are likely to materialize in the relatively near future perform this function to any significant degree. The District Court considered and rejected Microsoft's claims that innovations such as handheld devices would soon expand the relevant market beyond Intel-compatible PC operating systems. Because the company does not challenge these findings, we have no reason to believe that prompt substitutes are available. The structural approach, as applied by the District Court, is thus capable of fulfilling its purpose even in a changing market. Microsoft cites no case, nor are we aware of one, requiring direct evidence to show monopoly power in any market. We decline to adopt such a rule now.
Even if we were to require direct proof, moreover, Microsoft's behavior may well be sufficient to show the existence of monopoly power. None of the conduct Microsoft points to -- its investment in R&D and the relatively low price of Windows -- is inconsistent with the possession of such power.

B. Anticompetitive Conduct
1. Licenses Issued
The District Court condemned a number of provisions in Microsoft's agreements licensing Windows to OEMs, because it found that Microsoft's imposition of those provisions serves to reduce usage share of Netscape's browser and, hence, protect Microsoft's operating system monopoly. . . . 

a. Anticompetitive Effect
The restrictions Microsoft places upon Original Equipment Manufacturers are of particular importance in determining browser usage share because having an OEM pre-install a browser on a computer is one of the two most cost-effective methods by far of distributing browsing software. By preventing OEMs from removing visible means of user access to IE, the license restriction prevents many OEMs from pre-installing a rival browser and, therefore, protects Microsoft's monopoly from the competition that middleware might otherwise present. Therefore, we conclude that the license restriction at issue is anticompetitive. . . . 

2. Integration of IE and Windows
b. Justifications for Integration
Microsoft proffers no justification for two of the three challenged actions that it took in integrating IE into Windows -- excluding IE from the Add/Remove Programs utility and commingling browser and operating system code. Although Microsoft does make some general claims regarding the benefits of integrating the browser and the operating system, it neither specifies nor substantiates those claims. Nor does it argue that either excluding IE from the Add/Remove Programs utility or commingling code achieves any integrative benefit. Plaintiffs plainly made out a prima facie case of harm to competition in the operating system market by demonstrating that Microsoft's actions increased its browser usage share and thus protected its operating system monopoly from a middleware threat and, for its part, Microsoft failed to meet its burden of showing that its conduct serves a purpose other than protecting its operating system monopoly. Accordingly, we hold that Microsoft's exclusion of IE from the Add/Remove Programs utility and its commingling of browser and operating system code constitute exclusionary conduct, in violation of Sec. 2. . . .

5. Java
Java, a set of technologies developed by Sun Microsystems, is another type of middleware posing a potential threat to Windows' position as the ubiquitous platform for software development. The Java technologies include: (1) a programming language; (2) a set of programs written in that language, called the "Java class libraries," which expose APIs; (3) a compiler, which translates code written by a developer into "bytecode"; and (4) a Java Virtual Machine ("JVM"), which translates bytecode into instructions to the operating system. Programs calling upon the Java APIs will run on any machine with a "Java runtime environment," that is, Java class libraries and a JVM. . . . 

c. Deception of Java Developers
Microsoft's "Java implementation" included, in addition to a JVM, a set of software development tools it created to assist ISVs in designing Java applications. The District Court found that, not only were these tools incompatible with Sun's cross-platform aspirations for Java -- no violation, to be sure, but Microsoft deceived Java developers regarding the Windows-specific nature of the tools. Microsoft's tools included "certain 'keywords' and 'compiler directives' that could only be executed properly by Microsoft's version of the Java runtime environment for Windows." As a result, even Java "developers who were opting for portability over performance . . . unwittingly wrote Java applications that ran only on Windows." That is, developers who relied upon Microsoft's public commitment to cooperate with Sun and who used Microsoft's tools to develop what Microsoft led them to believe were cross-platform applications ended up producing applications that would run only on Windows. . . .
Microsoft's conduct related to its Java developer tools served to protect its monopoly of the operating system in a manner not attributable either to the superiority of the operating system or to the acumen of its makers, and therefore was anticompetitive. Unsurprisingly, Microsoft offers no procompetitive explanation for its campaign to deceive developers. Accordingly, we conclude this conduct is exclusionary, in violation of Sec. 2 of the Sherman Act.

III. ATTEMPT TO MONOPOLIZE
Microsoft further challenges the District Court's determination of liability for "attempt ing to monopolize . . . any part of the trade or commerce among the several States." To establish a Sec. 2 violation for attempted monopolization, "a plaintiff must prove (1) that the defendant has engaged in predatory or anticompetitive conduct with (2) a specific intent to monopolize and (3) a dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power." Because a deficiency on any one of the three will defeat plaintiffs' claim, we look no further than plaintiffs' failure to prove a dangerous probability of achieving monopoly power in the putative browser market. . . . 
To establish a dangerous probability of success, plaintiffs must as a threshold matter show that the browser market can be monopolized, i.e., that a hypothetical monopolist in that market could enjoy market power. This, in turn, requires plaintiffs (1) to define the relevant market and (2) to demonstrate that substantial barriers to entry protect that market. Because plaintiffs have not carried their burden on either prong, we reverse without remand.

IV. TYING
Microsoft also contests the District Court's determination of liability under Sec. 1 of the Sherman Act. The District Court concluded that Microsoft's contractual and technological bundling of the IE web browser (the "tied" product) with its Windows operating system ("OS") (the "tying" product) resulted in a tying arrangement that was per se unlawful. We hold that the rule of reason, rather than per se analysis, should govern the legality of tying arrangements involving platform software products. . . .
There are four elements to a per se tying violation: (1) the tying and tied goods are two separate products; (2) the defendant has market power in the tying product market; (3) the defendant affords consumers no choice but to purchase the tied product from it; and (4) the tying arrangement forecloses a substantial volume of commerce. . . . 

B. Per Se Analysis Inappropriate
. . . Our judgment regarding the comparative merits of the per se rule and the rule of reason is confined to the tying arrangement before us, where the tying product is software whose major purpose is to serve as a platform for third-party applications and the tied product is complementary software functionality. While our reasoning may at times appear to have broader force, we do not have the confidence to speak to facts outside the record, which contains scant discussion of software integration generally. Microsoft's primary justification for bundling IE APIs is that their inclusion with Windows increases the value of third-party software (and Windows) to consumers.
Because this claim applies with distinct force when the tying product is platform software, we have no present basis for finding the per se rule inapplicable to software markets generally. Nor should we be interpreted as setting a precedent for switching to the rule of reason every time a court identifies an efficiency justification for a tying arrangement. Our reading of the record suggests merely that integration of new functionality into platform software is a common practice and that wooden application of per se rules in this litigation may cast a cloud over platform innovation in the market for PCs, network computers and information appliances. 

V. TRIAL AND REMEDY
C. Failure to Hold Hearing
. . . It is a cardinal principle of our system of justice that factual disputes must be heard in open court and resolved through trial-like evidentiary proceedings. Any other course would be contrary "to the spirit which imbues our judicial tribunals prohibiting decision without hearing." . . . 
The reason the court declined to conduct an evidentiary hearing was not because of the absence of disputed facts, but because it believed that those disputes could be resolved only through "actual experience," not further proceedings. But a prediction about future events is not, as a prediction, any less a factual issue. Indeed, the Supreme Court has acknowledged that drafting an antitrust decree by necessity "involves predictions and assumptions concerning future economic and business events." Trial courts are not excused from their obligation to resolve such matters through evidentiary hearings simply because they consider the bedrock procedures of our justice system to be "of little use." . . .
Plaintiffs further argue -- and the District Court held -- that no evidentiary hearing was necessary given that Microsoft long had been on notice that structural relief was a distinct possibility. It is difficult to see why this matters. Whether Microsoft had advance notice that dissolution was in the works is immaterial to whether the District Court violated the company's procedural rights by ordering it without an evidentiary hearing. To be sure, "claimed surprise at the District Court's decision to consider permanent injunctive relief does not, alone, merit reversal." But, Microsoft's professed surprise does not stand "alone." There is something more: the company's basic procedural right to have disputed facts resolved through an evidentiary hearing. 
In sum, the District Court erred when it resolved the parties' remedies-phase factual disputes by consulting only the evidence introduced during trial and plaintiffs' remedies-phase submissions, without considering the evidence Microsoft sought to introduce. We therefore vacate the District Court's final judgment, and remand with instructions to conduct a remedies-specific evidentiary hearing.

D. Adequate Explanation
We vacate the District Court's remedies decree for the additional reason that the court has failed to provide an adequate explanation for the relief it ordered. . . .

F. On Remand
. . . On remand, the District Court must reconsider whether the use of the structural remedy of divestiture is appropriate with respect to Microsoft, which argues that it is a unitary company. By and large, cases upon which plaintiffs rely in arguing for the split of Microsoft have involved the dissolution of entities formed by mergers and acquisitions. On the contrary, the Supreme Court has clarified that divestiture "has traditionally been the remedy for Sherman Act violations whose heart is intercorporate combination and control," and that " c omplete divestiture is particularly appropriate where asset or stock acquisitions violate the antitrust laws." . . .
The District Court also should consider whether plaintiffs have established a sufficient causal connection between Microsoft's anticompetitive conduct and its dominant position in the OS market. "Mere existence of an exclusionary act does not itself justify full feasible relief against the monopolist to create maximum competition." Rather, structural relief, which is "designed to eliminate the monopoly altogether . . . require s a clearer indication of a significant causal connection between the conduct and creation or maintenance of the market power." Absent such causation, the antitrust defendant's unlawful behavior should be remedied by "an injunction against continuation of that conduct." . . . 

VI. JUDICIAL MISCONDUCT
Canon 3A(6) of the Code of Conduct for United States Judges requires federal judges to "avoid public comment on the merits of pending or impending" cases. Canon 2 tells judges to "avoid impropriety and the appearance of impropriety in all activities," on the bench and off. Canon 3A(4) forbids judges to initiate or consider ex parte communications on the merits of pending or impending proceedings. Section 455(a) of the Judicial Code requires judges to recuse themselves when their "impartiality might reasonably be questioned."
All indications are that the District Judge violated each of these ethical precepts by talking about the case with reporters. The violations were deliberate, repeated, egregious, and flagrant. The only serious question is what consequences should follow. Microsoft urges us to disqualify the District Judge, vacate the judgment in its entirety and toss out the findings of fact, and remand for a new trial before a different District Judge. At the other extreme, plaintiffs ask us to do nothing. We agree with neither position.

A. Press Communications
Immediately after the District Judge entered final judgment on June 7, 2000, accounts of interviews with him began appearing in the press. Some of the interviews were held after he entered final judgment. The District Judge also aired his views about the case to larger audiences, giving speeches at a college and at an antitrust seminar.
From the published accounts, it is apparent that the Judge also had been giving secret interviews to select reporters before entering final judgment -- in some instances long before. . . . The Judge "embargoed" these interviews until he issued the Final Judgment. . . .

B. Violations of Code of Conduct
. . . While some of the Code's Canons frequently generate questions about their application, others are straightforward and easily understood. Canon 3A(6) is an example of the latter. In forbidding federal judges to comment publicly "on the merits of a pending or impending action," Canon 3A(6) applies to cases pending before any court, state or federal, trial or appellate. As "impending" indicates, the prohibition begins even before a case enters the court system, when there is reason to believe a case may be filed. An action remains "pending" until "completion of the appellate process.".
The Microsoft case was "pending" during every one of the District Judge's meetings with reporters; the case is "pending" now; and even after our decision issues, it will remain pending for some time. The District Judge breached his ethical duty under Canon 3A(6) each time he spoke to a reporter about the merits of the case. Although the reporters interviewed him in private, his comments were public. Court was not in session and his discussion of the case took place outside the presence of the parties. He provided his views not to court personnel assisting him in the case, but to members of the public. And these were not just any members of the public. Because he was talking to reporters, the Judge knew his comments would eventually receive widespread dissemination. 
It is clear that the District Judge was not discussing purely procedural matters, which are a permissible subject of public comment under one of the Canon's three narrowly drawn exceptions. He disclosed his views on the factual and legal matters at the heart of the case. His opinions about the credibility of witnesses, the validity of legal theories, the culpability of the defendant, the choice of remedy, and so forth all dealt with the merits of the action. It is no excuse that the Judge may have intended to "educate" the public about the case or to rebut "public misperceptions" purportedly caused by the parties. If those were his intentions, he could have addressed the factual and legal issues as he saw them -- and thought the public should see them -- in his Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Final Judgment, or in a written opinion. Or he could have held his tongue until all appeals were concluded. 
Far from mitigating his conduct, the District Judge's insistence on secrecy -- his embargo -- made matters worse. Concealment of the interviews suggests knowledge of their impropriety. Concealment also prevented the parties from nipping his improprieties in the bud. . . . 
Another point needs to be stressed. Rulings in this case have potentially huge financial consequences for one of the nation's largest publicly-traded companies and its investors. The District Judge's secret interviews during the trial provided a select few with inside information about the case, information that enabled them and anyone they shared it with to anticipate rulings before the Judge announced them to the world. Although he "embargoed" his comments, the Judge had no way of policing the reporters. For all he knew there may have been trading on the basis of the information he secretly conveyed. The public cannot be expected to maintain confidence in the integrity and impartiality of the federal judiciary in the face of such conduct. 

C. Appearance of Partiality
. . . We recognize that it would be extraordinary to disqualify a judge for bias or appearance of partiality when his remarks arguably reflected what he learned, or what he thought he learned, during the proceedings. But this "extrajudicial source" rule has no bearing on the case before us. The problem here is not just what the District Judge said, but to whom he said it and when. His crude characterizations of Microsoft, his frequent denigrations of Bill Gates, his mule trainer analogy as a reason for his remedy -- all of these remarks and others might not have given rise to a violation of the Canons or of Sec. 455(a) had he uttered them from the bench. But then Microsoft would have had an opportunity to object, perhaps even to persuade, and the Judge would have made a record for review on appeal.

D. Remedies
1. Disqualification
. . . Although the violations of the Code of Conduct and Sec. 455(a) were serious, full retroactive disqualification is unnecessary. It would unduly penalize plaintiffs, who were innocent and unaware of the misconduct, and would have only slight marginal deterrent effect. 
Most important, full retroactive disqualification is unnecessary to protect Microsoft's right to an impartial adjudication. The District Judge's conduct destroyed the appearance of impartiality. Microsoft neither alleged nor demonstrated that it rose to the level of actual bias or prejudice. There is no reason to presume that everything the District Judge did is suspect. Although Microsoft challenged very few of the findings as clearly erroneous, we have carefully reviewed the entire record and discern no basis to suppose that actual bias infected his factual findings. The most serious judicial misconduct occurred near or during the remedial stage. It is therefore commensurate that our remedy focus on that stage of the case. . . . 

2. Review of Findings and Conclusions
Given the limited scope of our disqualification of the District Judge, we have let stand for review his Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law. The severity of the District Judge's misconduct and the appearance of partiality it created have led us to consider whether we can and should subject his fact-findings to greater scrutiny. We have rejected any such approach. The Federal Rules require that District Court findings of fact not be set aside unless they are clearly erroneous.
. . . Thus, although Microsoft alleged only appearance of bias, not actual bias, we have reviewed the record with care and have discerned no evidence of actual bias.

Terms of the Trade

API -- Application programming interfaces, the links between applications programs and the operating system.

IE -- Internet Explorer, Microsoft's browser.

ISV -- Independent software vendor.

OEM -- Original equipment manufacturer (PC maker).

OS -- Operating system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (96%); APPEALS COURTS (91%); APPEALS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); JUDGES (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INTERNET BROWSERS (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; STATES (US) 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



749 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1078 words

HEADLINE: 2 Election Finance Bills Go to House Floor 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
Drawing sharp battle lines over the overhaul of the campaign finance law, House Republican leaders put their might today behind a bill that would limit certain contributions but stops short of the comprehensive overhaul of the campaign finance law that passed the Senate. 
 The measure, sponsored by Representative Bob Ney, Republican of Ohio, was sent to the House floor on a party-line vote by the House Administration Committee, setting up a showdown on the issue when Congress returns from a July 4 recess. 
 Republican leaders hope that Mr. Ney's bill can defeat a broader campaign finance bill, modeled after the Senate measure, that is sponsored by Representatives Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, and Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts. And House Republican leaders began working hard today to rally support for Mr. Ney's bill. 
Mr. Shays and Mr. Meehan also introduced their own measure, including concessions that they hoped would keep blacks and Hispanics and liberals from bolting their coalition. Their bill, which has at its heart a ban on unregulated donations to the national political parties known as soft money, was also reported from the committee today, but with an unfavorable recommendation.
The action setting up dueling bills came nearly three months after the Senate passed a broad overhaul of the campaign finance law sponsored by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, that put within reach the most comprehensive change in the law since the Watergate era.
The House passed the Shays-Meehan legislation in both 1998 and 1999 knowing that it would die in a Republican-led Senate filibuster. Now the House could be pivotal. 
"We've never ever been this close," Mr. Meehan said today. "So the stakes are very, very high."
With the outcome of the House struggle uncertain, the tug of war for votes intensified. Representative Dick Armey, the majority leader from Texas, held a series of private "listening sessions" with Republicans throughout the day to gather support for Mr. Ney's approach. Republican press secretaries were summoned by the Republican leadership staff members and given talking points on the issue designed to increase support for Mr. Ney's bill.
Both parties have raced to raise as much soft money as they can this year, given the possibility of a legislative ban on the unrestricted checks from corporations, labor unions and wealthy individuals. On Wednesday night, Congressional Republicans raised $20 million, the bulk of it in soft-money checks, at a gala featuring President Bush.
Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois endorsed Mr. Ney's bill in principle and spoke out against the Shays-Meehan measure, saying it would hurt the parties.
"What I don't want to do is dismantle the state party system," Mr. Hastert said.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, was battling to rally Democrats around the Shays-Meehan bill. In a sign of continuing restiveness in his ranks, Mr. Gephardt said, "I guess we've had 25 meetings in the last three or four weeks on this bill and we'll have many more before it's over."
Mr. McCain has also jumped into the fray, sending letters to 24 House Republicans he had campaigned for in the fall and urging support for the Shays-Meehan bill. In a letter to Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, who just squeaked back into office last year, Mr. McCain reminded him of their appearance together and said, "I remember our personal conversation about our shared passion for reform."
He added, "Now you have the opportunity to fulfill the campaign promise you and I made together in West Palm Beach."
Mr. Shaw had never supported the overhaul effort in the past but in his appearance with Mr. McCain said, "I've had a change of heart as to the intensity of the problem."
Today, Mr. Shaw said he thought Mr. Ney had the better bill and that he had never committed to support Mr. McCain. "I'm not going to be bullied into any position," he said.
The rival bills differ significantly. 
Mr. Shays and Mr. Meehan have been struggling to draw up a bill close enough to the Senate one that they can avoid having to reconcile differences between the two chambers in a conference committee. Such a committee, they said, would give Republican leaders another chance to kill the overhaul effort. Like the Senate version, their bill would ban unregulated soft money contributions to the national political parties and rein in issue-advertising by outside groups near an elections.
But they also made some changes in their bill from the Senate measure in hopes of winning dissident Democrats who opposed the Senate's move to raise the limits on how much an individual can give to a federal candidate to $2,000 an election, from the current $1,000. The Senate would also allow increases for inflation.
Mr. Shays and Mr. Meehan's bill would allow the $2,000 limit for Senate and presidential candidates, but keep the $1,000 ceiling for House candidates and adjust it for inflation. That brought some Democrats back on board, like Representative Sam Farr of California.
"We keep the credibility that it's a reform bill," Mr. Farr said.
To woo black and Hispanic lawmakers, Mr. Shays and Mr. Meehan decided to keep in place a little-noticed late amendment to the Senate bill that allows state political parties to accept donations of up to $10,000 a year from corporations, unions and individuals for such efforts as getting out the vote. 
Mr. Ney, by contrast, would cap soft money contributions at no more than $75,000 a year to the national political parties but leave such contributions to state parties unlimited.
In a bid for the support of black and Hispanic lawmakers who fear that a soft-money ban would hinder efforts to register minorities to vote, Mr. Ney would restrict the use of such contributions primarily to registration and efforts to get out the vote and bar the money from being used for television commercials. He would place no limits on advertising on campaign issues by outside groups, but require greater disclosure on sponsorship.
In another appeal to Democrats, Mr. Ney would keep in place the $1,000 limit on individual donations to federal candidates. 
Saying he was making headway over his rivals, Mr. Ney said, "Their coalition is falling apart."
He said that one member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Representative Albert Wynn, Democrat of Maryland, was supporting his bill.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John McCain, right, meeting Representative Harold E. Ford Jr. yesterday on the campaign bill. Others, from left, are Mark Steven Kirk, Zach Wamp, John Lewis, Lynn Rivers and Martin T. Meehan. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (88%); JOHN LEWIS (79%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (58%); ZACH WAMP (58%); RUSS FEINGOLD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON; NEY, BOB (REPR); SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REPR); MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); MEEHAN, MARTIN T (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



750 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: Brooks Bros. Expected to Get Discount Bids 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

 BODY:
It is summer clearance time, and everything at Brooks Brothers is on sale.
 Brooks Brothers, the retailer of classic American men's wear that popularized the button-down collar, is being sold in its entirety by Marks & Spencer, a flagship of British retailing that is retrenching because of financial troubles. 
 Marks & Spencer paid $750 million to Allied Stores for Brooks Brothers in 1988 and now hopes to sell it for a third less, or $500 million. 
Preliminary bids were due yesterday, according to executives close to the auction. 
The auction could be completed at a fire sale price, some industry executives said, noting that business has sagged and the economy is weak. Though Brooks Brothers is a solid brand and is said to be profitable, it has a staid image as a maker of boxy men's suits, while American tastes have shifted to more fashionable and more casual clothes.
Executives who have seen the offering materials said they expected the retailer to fetch no more than $400 million.
They said the companies that had submitted bids or were still considering an offer late yesterday included May Department Stores, which operates Lord & Taylor; Men's Wearhouse; the Della Valle Group, which already has a franchise agreement for Brooks Brothers in Italy; Luxottica, which owns the Sunglass Hut chain and makes eyewear for Brooks Brothers; the Texas Pacific Group, a buyout firm that owns J. Crew and Bally; and Dickson Concepts International, which operates Brooks Brothers franchises in Southeast Asia.
Spokesmen for the companies declined to comment or could not be reached yesterday. Morgan Stanley is managing the auction for Marks & Spencer.
May Department Stores is perhaps the leading candidate, stock analysts said. The company could keep the existing 220 Brooks Brothers stores worldwide and use the brand as a private label throughout its other stores, they suggested.
"Obviously, May has been looking at specialty stores," said Shari Schwartzman Eberts, a senior analyst at J. P. Morgan Chase. Last year, May acquired David's Bridal, another specialty chain. "The Brooks name is very strong," she said, "and to the extent that they can provide an exclusive brand to their customers, it could work."
Nordstrom made a somewhat similar move last year by acquiring one of its long-time suppliers, Faconnable, which now provides private-label merchandise. Faconnable has a few retail stores in the United States and dozens of shops in Europe and Asia.
A New York mainstay with 80 stores and 72 outlets in the United States as well as 77 shops in Asia, Brooks Brothers was begun by Henry Sands Brooks as H.& D. H. Brooks & Company on the corner of Catherine Street and Cherry Street in Manhattan in 1818.
It was sold in 1946 to Garfinkel-Rhoads, a Washington chain of specialty stores, which took Brooks Brothers nationwide. Garfinkel and Brooks Brothers were swallowed up in 1980 by Allied Stores, which sold Brooks Brothers in 1988 to Marks & Spencer.
Last month, Marks & Spencer reported its third consecutive decline in full-year earnings. The sale of Brooks Brothers is part of a revamping plan Marks & Spencer announced in March. Marks & Spencer is retreating to Britain, where it has about 300 stores, abandoning stores in France, Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Portugal and Spain, which posted a combined operating loss of more than $28.7 million last year. It also plans to sell Kings Supermarkets, a chain of 25 stores based in New Jersey.
Brooks Brothers' operating profit was only 4.5 percent of sales in 2000 and 2 percent in 1999, said executives who have seen the books. A price of $400 million would peg the company at 10 times its cash flow, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and other items. 
Though J. Crew and other retailers sold for such a multiple in 1997, the economic climate has since deteriorated. 
Brooks Brothers, too, has struggled to redefine itself for a younger audience.
"They have such a well-defined traditional business that it's been difficult for them to broaden it," said Walter F. Loeb, publisher of a retail industry newsletter bearing his name. "The truth is that the clothing business is in decline." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); MEN (90%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (89%); PRIVATE LABELS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); OPTICAL GOODS STORES (78%); FRANCHISEES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (69%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: MARKS & SPENCER GROUP PLC (85%); DICKSON CONCEPTS (INTERNATIONAL) LTD (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); MACY'S INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); MEN'S WEARHOUSE INC (55%); TPG CAPITAL LP (54%); DAVID'S BRIDAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKS BROTHERS; MARKS & SPENCER PLC 

TICKER: MKS (LSE) (85%); 0113 (HKSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%); M (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); MW (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (85%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (85%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS448210 SHOE STORES (55%); NAICS448150 CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (55%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (55%); SIC5699 MISC. APPAREL & ACCESSORY STORES (55%); SIC5661 SHOE STORES (55%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (55%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%) SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES; SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (90%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



751 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: In Slap at Bush, House Votes to Bar Oil Drilling in Great Lakes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
In another slap at President Bush's energy and environment policies, the House of Representatives voted today to prohibit drilling for oil and gas in the Great Lakes.
 The president has not taken a specific stand on exploration in the Great Lakes, but his energy policy is based on increasing domestic oil and gas production. 
 Last week, the House voted to ban drilling in the Gulf of Mexico off Florida and on the grounds of national monuments. And Congress has shown little interest in adopting the president's plan to drill in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. 
Although the Great Lakes prohibition had considerable Republican support, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, the Republican whip, left no doubt this was a partisan matter.
"The Democrat leadership is constraining our economy," Mr. DeLay said, in an "energy straitjacket."
He accused Democrats of trying to "choke off every promising source of domestic energy" and added, "Their actual objective must be to eradicate America's energy security."
But Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the Democratic whip, said the main issue was protection of the environment.
"We depend for our drinking water, our recreation, the engine of our economy on the water in the Great Lakes," Mr. Bonior said. "We cannot afford to put our greatest natural resource at risk."
At the White House today, Ari Fleischer, the press secretary, said: "There is nothing in the president's energy plan that deals with the Great Lakes. That's a state matter."
Gov. John Engler of Michigan, a Republican and a Bush loyalist, is a strong proponent of exploring for oil and gas in the Great Lakes. He is not running for re-election, and Mr. Bonior is running to succeed him.
The prohibition against drilling in the Great Lakes was approved, 265 to 157, as an amendment to a bill that would allocate $23.7 billion in the next fiscal year for energy and water development projects. The overall bill passed by a vote of 405 to 15.
Seventy Republicans, one-third of those who voted, joined nearly all the Democrats in voting to block Great Lakes drilling. Among those in favor were 4 of the 7 Republicans from Michigan, 6 of the 11 from Ohio and 6 of the 10 from Illinois.
Democrats obviously feel they have found a good issue on which to contest Mr. Bush. The latest New York Times/CBS News survey found that more than two-thirds of respondents favored energy conservation over increasing production.
The bill illustrated the difficulty the president will have this year in holding down spending on popular programs. It would allocate $4.7 billion for the Army Corps of Engineers' water projects, $568 million, or 16 percent, more than Mr. Bush requested.
The measure also provided a stage for airing regional differences.
For instance, Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, a state not known for its seashore, offered an amendment that would have limited spending for beach restoration. The proposal was strongly opposed by lawmakers from coastal states and was handily defeated.
Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, a Democrat from upstate New York, where there are no nuclear weapons laboratories, tried to transfer $60 million from weapons research into projects for solar, wind and geothermal energy. But Mr. Hinchey also lost in the face of opposition from lawmakers from states like New Mexico and Tennessee, where there are large laboratories.
The biggest fight in this regard was over a section in the bill that would eliminate all money for processing federal permits for a gas pipeline that would begin in Alabama and run 750 miles into Florida. The section was inserted by Representative Sonny Callahan, an Alabama Republican who is chairman of the energy and water development subcommittee.
The matter has little practical significance. For one thing, the permits for the pipeline have already been issued. For another, Representative C. W. Bill Young, a Republican from the Gulf Coast of Florida, is chairman of the Appropriations Committee and will be chairman of the House-Senate conference committee that will write the final energy and water legislation. Mr. Young made it clear today that the pipeline section would not survive in conference.
But the debate threw into a spotlight the regional split on energy development and the environment.
Mr. Callahan conceded that he had put the section in the bill because his nose was out of joint over the vote last Thursday blocking oil and gas drilling off the Florida Gulf coast. Florida lawmakers from both parties oppose such drilling, but Mr. Callahan, like most other lawmakers from Alabama, Louisiana and Texas, favors it.
Six of Alabama's seven representatives were absent for the June 21 vote because they were with President Bush, who was giving a speech in Birmingham on energy conservation and could not "be here to defend ourselves," Mr. Callahan said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL PARKS (77%); WILDLIFE (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (71%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); APPROVALS (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (66%); ARMIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT LAKES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



752 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1868 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VS. MICROSOFT: THE OVERVIEW; 
APPEALS COURT VOIDS ORDER FOR BREAKING UP MICROSOFT BUT FINDS IT ABUSED POWER

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28 

 BODY:
A federal appeals court unanimously threw out a lower court's order today that the Microsoft Corporation should be broken up, although the appeals court found that the company had repeatedly abused its monopoly power in the software business. 
 The appeals court also sharply chastised the district judge who oversaw the Microsoft antitrust trial and removed him from any further involvement in the case because of derogatory comments he made to reporters about the company and its senior executives. 
 The unsigned opinion was welcomed by Microsoft, which is no longer under immediate threat of being split into two companies. The company is already preparing the release of a new version of the Windows software operating system, which has features that industry executives say could further consolidate Microsoft's dominance of the personal computer software market. Page C1. 
But the opinion was also hailed by federal and state officials for affirming the principle that Microsoft had bullied smaller software rivals, computer makers and other large companies like the chip maker Intel, and had broken the law in ways that stifled competition.
Among other companies in the computer industry, reaction was muted, as many executives said they needed time to study the opinion.
Justice Department officials, some state attorneys general, and Microsoft executives said today that they had not decided what they would do next -- although Microsoft's chairman, William H. Gates, said he hoped the ruling might open the way to new settlement talks. 
The parties now have three options:
*They can appeal to the Supreme Court. 
*They can proceed to a new trial before a different district judge to consider some of the unresolved antitrust liability questions and reconsider an appropriate remedy. 
*Or they can reopen settlement negotiations, which failed during the Clinton administration but which Microsoft executives hope can be rekindled with the new leadership at the Justice Department.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said that President Bush had been told of the decision this morning and would now await guidance from the Justice Department about how to proceed. 
Officials at the Justice Department said they were pleased but had not decided which avenue to pursue.
"We believe this is a significant victory in terms of the determination made by a unanimous court that Microsoft had engaged in unlawful conduct," Attorney General John Ashcroft said at a news conference this afternoon. "But I'm not prepared at this time to indicate what the final outcome to be pursued on the part of the Justice Department is. We'll shape our response to the decision after we have more time to digest it."
Executives at Microsoft, who have courted the new administration, said they were pleased by the decision.
"The sun was definitely shining today," Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive, said in a telephone conference call with reporters. "Today's ruling goes a long way toward positively resolving this matter for Microsoft, our partners, our customers and shareholders. It lifts the breakup cloud from the company."
Mr. Gates, the company's co-founder, expressed hopes for a settlement. "With this ruling, there is a new framework," Mr. Gates said in a news conference, "and so it would be a good time for all parties involved to sit down together and see what kind of resolution can be worked out." 
The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled that Microsoft had violated Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act.
The company, the judges found, had illegally used its monopoly position in the personal computer operating systems market through a series of anticompetitive license restrictions and other agreements with computer makers, software vendors and Internet service providers. 
But the court dismissed a central accusation by the government that Microsoft had attempted to monopolize the market for Internet browser software. And on a third count -- that the company had improperly tied its Explorer browser to its operating system -- the court said Judge Jackson had used the wrong legal standard and sent the case back down for further consideration before a different district court judge.
Without reaching a conclusion about the correct remedy, the appeals court suggested that a breakup of Microsoft would be inappropriate even if the trial judge found more evidence of antitrust violations. The court noted that a dissolution of a company found guilty of such violations was normally reserved for businesses -- unlike Microsoft -- that have grown through mergers and acquisitions. 
"Divestiture is a remedy that is imposed only with great caution, in part because its long-term efficacy is rarely certain," the court said. "If the court on remand is unconvinced of the causal connection between Microsoft's exclusionary conduct and the company's position in the operating systems market, it may well conclude that divestiture is not an appropriate remedy."
Short of a breakup, a court can impose a wide array of restrictions or remedies on Microsoft in an effort to prevent future antitrust violations. Such measures might include setting rules for the company's licensing deals or requiring Microsoft to offer stripped-down versions of its operating system. A court could also require the company to license its Windows software code so that other companies could produce their own competing versions. 
But the company's strongest critics have contended that nothing short of a Microsoft breakup could assure that the software market remain vibrant. That view was ultimately adopted by the Clinton administration. It filed the antitrust case in May 1998 after concluding that Microsoft had violated the terms of an earlier consent decree meant to keep the company from engaging in anticompetitive activity.
But the breakup stance has been criticized by some advisers to President Bush. And the court said that because the trial judge, Thomas Penfield Jackson, never held a hearing about the breakup order or properly explained its basis, the order had to be reversed. 
The court also said that Judge Jackson had violated three judicial canons by discussing the case with reporters from several news organizations, including The New York Times, while he was considering the case. In those interviews, Judge Jackson spoke extensively about his views of the case, accused Mr. Gates of having "a Napoleonic concept of himself" and compared Microsoft's incriminating e-mails to intercepted conversations by drug traffickers who "never figure out that they shouldn't be saying certain things on the phone."
The appeals judges said Judge Jackson's ethical violations "were deliberate, repeated, egregious and flagrant" and that public confidence in the judicial process cannot survive when judges "pander to the press."
"Judge Learned Hand spoke of 'this America of ours where the passion for publicity is a disease, and where swarms of foolish, tawdry moths dash with rapture into its consuming fire,' " the court of appeals wrote. "Judges are obligated to resist this passion."
Judge Jackson did not return repeated calls to his chambers today seeking comment. Nor did Joel I. Klein, the former senior Justice Department official who was the architect of the government's case. Mr. Klein is now a senior executive for the United States operations of the German media giant Bertelsmann.
Investors reacted positively to the decision. Shares of Microsoft reached a high of $76.15 before closing at $72.74, up $1.60, or 2.25 percent.
Today's opinion was issued by seven appeals court judges: Harry T. Edwards, Stephen F. Williams, Douglas H. Ginsburg, David B. Sentelle, A. Raymond Randolph, Judith W. Rogers, and David S. Tatel. Three other appeals judges on the court removed themselves from the case without explanation.
For the government, the strongest portion of today's opinion was an examination of the accusations that Microsoft had repeatedly violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act by illegally maintaining a monopoly.
The court found that Microsoft had engaged in anticompetitive behavior by imposing license restrictions on computer makers that forced them to install the company's Internet Explorer browser and exclude rival Netscape's Navigator browser.
It found similar agreements with Internet providers like America Online had also violated Section 2. And the court concluded that Microsoft had violated Section 2 by threatening Apple Computer that it would cancel work on a suite of Office applications for Apple's own operating system unless Apple made greater use of the Microsoft browser. 
Finally, the court said that Microsoft had violated Section 2 by threatening Intel by refusing to deliver Intel technologies bundled with the Windows operating system. At the time, Intel was developing computer technology based on the Java operating system, which was viewed as a potential competitor to Microsoft Windows. But Intel capitulated under pressure from Microsoft.
Aside from the court's throwing out the breakup order, the biggest win for Microsoft was the court's decision to reverse Judge Jackson's finding that Microsoft had "attempted to monopolize" the browser market in violation of Section 2. 
The government also suffered a setback in its argument that the company had illegally "tied" the Internet Explorer browser to its Windows operating system in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act.
Judge Jackson had found that such tying was automatically illegal. But the appeals court said that the trial court should not use an automatic standard but a so-called rule of reason, which required an analysis of the economic and competitive impact of the melding of the browser and the operating system. Such a standard is generally considered to be more favorable to defendants.
The case began in the summer of 1994 when the Justice Department filed a lawsuit accusing Microsoft of unlawfully maintaining a monopoly in the operating system market through improper licensing and software development agreements. That suit was settled with a consent decree.
But three years later, the government filed a civil contempt action against Microsoft, accusing the company of violating a provision of the decree that the government said prohibited the company from binding its Internet Explorer browser to its Windows operating system.
In May 1998, the government and a group of states filed a separate broader complaint asserting a raft of antitrust violations.
Mindful that technology was moving far more rapidly than the courts, Judge Jackson put the case on a fast track, abbreviating testimony and limiting evidence. He completed the trial after 76 days of hearings and issued broad findings that the company had repeatedly violated the antitrust laws. 
After the failure of settlement talks conducted at Judge Jackson's request by a federal appeals judge, Richard A. Posner, Judge Jackson ordered Microsoft split into two companies -- one for its operating system and another for the various software applications it develops. 
But Judge Jackson stayed his order to allow Microsoft time to appeal the decision, leading to yesterday's action by the appeals court.

GRAPHIC: Photos: William H. Gates said yesterday he hoped for new settlement talks. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Seven members of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit ruled unanimously in overturning the order to break up Microsoft. Three other judges removed themselves from the case. (Associated Press)(pg. C7) Chart: "The Issues and the Findings"The Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued an opinion yesterday that threw out a lower court's decision to break up Microsoft. But the opinion did find that Microsoft had violated antitrust law. ISSUE: Monopoly maintenanceBACKGROUND: For a company to be a monopoly, it must have the power to control prices or exclude competition. For the monopoly to be illegal, the company must have acquired the power by keeping out other companies, rather than by having better products or a better business strategy. In the Microsoft case, the market in question consists of personal computer operating systems that rely chiefly on Intel's microprocessor chips.THE APPEALS COURT'S FINDINGS: The opinion agreed with Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson that Microsoft had illegally used its monopoly through a series of licensing restrictions imposed on computer and software makers and Internet service providers. The court dismissed Microsoft's claim that the government needed to, and failed to, show a direct link between the company's anticompetitive behavior and its monopoly. "Suffice it to say that it would be inimical to the purpose of the Sherman Act to allow monopolists free rein to squash nascent, albeit unproven, competitors at will--particularly in industries marked by rapid technological advance and frequent paradigm shifts." ISSUE: Attempted monopolyBACKGROUND: Besides the question of whether Microsoft held a monopoly in operating systems, the government also sought to prove that the company tried to create a new monopoly in Internet browsers. Judge Jackson ruled in the government's favor, finding that Microsoft tried to use its operating system to force customers to use its browser.THE APPEALS COURT'S FINDINGS: The judges overturned this finding outright. The ruling said that government lawyers had not properly defined what the relevant market was and that they had not proved the browser market had significant barriers to entry. ISSUE: Linking productsBACKGROUND: When evaluating whether companies have violated the law by tying two or more of their products together, courts may use one of two standards. The first, called a per se analysis, holds that the linking of separate products is automatically illegal. The second, called the rule of reason, is more subjective, allowing a company to explain the economic benefits of a tie-in.THE APPEALS COURT'S FINDINGS: Using the per se analysis, Judge Jackson found Microsoft liable for the bundling of its Internet browser with its operating system. The appellate judges rejected this finding, saying the rule-of-reason standard was more appropriate, given the uncertain nature of the software business. "While every 'business relationship' will in some sense have unique features, some represent entire, novel categories of dealings," the judges wrote. This is one such case, they said, and as a result there is not sufficient evidence that Microsoft's actions hurt consumers. Barring a settlement or the Supreme Court's reversal of this ruling, a new district court judge will reconsider the issue, using the rule of reason. ISSUE: The case's timing and outcomeBACKGROUND: Judge Jackson created an unusually fast timeline for the Microsoft case, saying that the rapidly changing technology industry could not wait years for a decision. At the end of the trial, Judge Jackson ordered the breakup of Microsoft into two separate companies: one to sell the operating system and another to sell the remaining software.THE APPEALS COURT'S FINDINGS: The judges found no fault with the case's timeline. But they vacated the breakup order for three reasons. First, Microsoft had not had a chance to dispute key facts because Judge Jackson had not held an evidentiary hearing about the breakup. Second, Judge Jackson did not offer sufficient reason for a breakup. Third, he did not say whether the only government accusation still intact -- monopoly maintenance -- was enough to warrant a breakup. The panel also suggested that it believed a breakup was not the right remedy for a company that grew on its own, rather than through mergers. ISSUE: The judge's behaviorBACKGROUND: In the months since the original trial ended, a number of publications, including The New York Times, have printed interviews with Judge Jackson in which he criticized Microsoft's handling of the case and William H. Gates, the company's chairman. The judge gave the interviews before he issued his ruling, under the condition that they not be printed until afterward.THE APPEALS COURT'S FINDINGS: Citing the code of conduct for federal judges, and its ban on judges' commenting publicly on pending cases, the appellate panel harshly criticized Judge Jackson and removed him from the case. His violations of the code, the panel said, "were deliberate, repeated, egregious and flagrant." But the court rejected Microsoft's request that all of his findings be overturned. (pg. C7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (93%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); JUDGES (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); VERDICTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPEALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); BUSINESS LIABILITY (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (94%); INTEL CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INTEL CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (82%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: STEVEN A BALLMER (78%); BILL GATES (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) LABATON, STEPHEN; JACKSON, THOMAS PENFIELD (JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



753 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: U.S. VS. MICROSOFT: THE COMPANY; 
After 3 Years of Foreboding, A Light New Mood at Microsoft

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: REDMOND, Wash., June 28 

 BODY:
The weather is always a good source of conversation here in the Seattle area, and Microsoft officials liberally invoked meteorological analogies today in offering generally jubilant reactions to the appeals court ruling in the antitrust battle with the federal government.
 "I'm sure you'll understand if you live in Seattle the feeling of the sunshine breaking through, and all of us at Microsoft see this as the sunshine we've been waiting for," said Jeff Raikes, group vice president of the company's productivity and business services group. 
 William H. Gates, Microsoft's chairman, speaking to reporters here, said, "The ruling lifts the cloud of breakup over the company."
And from Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive, who interrupted a vacation in Northern California to hail the ruling by speaker phone: "The sun was definitely shining a little bit in Seattle, and also here on Lake Shasta." 
After more than three years of mostly cloudy weather on the legal front, Microsoft saw good news in today's appellate ruling by seven federal judges, who threw out some of the trial court rulings and halted its ordered breakup of the company.
Even as analysts cautioned that the case was far from over and that today's decision was far from an outright victory for the company, a sense of quiet elation seemed to stretch across much of Microsoft's corporate campus here on the other side of Lake Washington from Seattle.
"Well, we haven't been running around the halls screaming, opening bottles of Champagne, anything like that," said Ori Amiga, 23, a program manager in the company's .Net division. "But definitely people are walking around to each other's offices, exchanging e-mail, and in general it's a congratulatory sense."
The news first reached K. D. Hallman at 8:36 a.m. "My heart started beating and I couldn't wait to get into work and start reading the ruling," said Ms. Hallman, general manager of Microsoft's natural language group, which develops technology to help computers recognize and interpret human language. She heard a radio summary of the ruling that made things sound especially upbeat for the company. "I'd say the mood here is mostly very happy, very positive," Ms. Hallman said, "but I wish the whole thing had been resolved."
Mr. Gates and other top executives emphasized that sentiment. "It's a good time for all the parties involved to sit down and see what kind of resolution could be worked out," said Mr. Gates, who co-founded the company 26 years ago and now holds the titles of chairman and chief software architect. "It's absolutely worth making an effort there."
At times, Mr. Gates struck a tone sounding almost as if the case had been concluded, which it certainly is not -- the appeals judges found that Microsoft had engaged in illegal monopolistic practices and they ordered a new trial judge to decide what penalties it should face. 
Nonetheless, he responded as if his company had been exonerated. "The legal process can be hard on anyone who goes through it," Mr. Gates said. "The last four years have been challenging for all of us here at Microsoft, and for me personally. But despite the many twists and turns of the case, I have always had faith in our company, in our employees and in the magic of the software we're creating."
The upbeat mood here seemed to carry over to the state's Congressional delegation -- generally staunch defenders of the hometown software company. "This is a victory for creativity, for competition, for consumers and for the U.S. high-tech industry," Senator Patty Murray said. 
Microsoft competitors and other public officials offered starkly different characterizations of the ruling, saying it would help keep Microsoft from attaching anticompetitive features to its new Windows XP software and its Hailstorm system for linking a range of online services, from financial to entertainment.
Mike Pettit, president of ProComp, a trade association representing many Microsoft competitors, told The Associated Press: "Contrary to what Mr. Gates said, the court did not give Microsoft a green light to bolt any products together that they want. An awful lot of what Microsoft is trying to do with its Hailstorm and XP was ruled illegal by the court. They press ahead at their peril."
Seattle's mayor, Paul Schell, remarked: "The decision arrived at unanimously today by the federal court of appeals is very good news -- for our region and our state, for the high-tech economy and for consumers nationwide. My hope is that this case will now move along to a swift conclusion."
And Eric Liu, vice president for corporate communications at RealNetworks of Seattle, which pioneered audio and video software for the Internet, said: "This ruling lays out some important rules of acceptable conduct. While we have never built our strategy around expectations of any legal or regulatory actions, a detailed reading of today's ruling shows that it's a positive development for the industry and for consumers."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Microsoft's co-founder, William H. Gates, offering his reaction to the ruling yesterday. (Larry Davis for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); APPEALS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); JUDGES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (68%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US); COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (89%); STEVEN A BALLMER (78%) VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; GATES, WILLIAM H; BALLMER, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%) WASHINGTON, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2001 



754 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Toyota and Peugeot in Pact To Produce Car for Europe

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 29 

 BODY:
Toyota Motor of Japan and PSA Peugeot Citroen of France announced today that they would jointly develop and build a small fuel-efficient car for the European market.
 The companies said they expected to sign a formal agreement in July and announce details then. 
 Japanese news reports said that if the deal went through, the companies intended to build 300,000 of the small cars a year, sharing a common platform, or underbody. 
The benefits for Toyota would be an expansion of its model lineup in Europe beyond the Yaris, a subcompact known in Japan as the Vitz. The Yaris competes in Europe with market leaders like the Volkswagen Golf; Toyota has been manufacturing it at Valenciennes, in northern France, since January.
For Peugeot, the advantages would appear to lie in gaining a new small car below its Citroen Saxo and Peugeot 106 models while sharing the development costs with Toyota.
Bertrand Bellanger, a Toyota spokesman in France, said the companies were studying sites for a joint factory, including spots in Eastern Europe and the new Toyota factory at Valenciennes. But he also said that an Eastern European country, possibly Poland, appeared to be the probable choice because of cost advantages like low wages and Poland's expected entry into the European Union, which has eliminated trade barriers.
Toyota will deploy the new small car, for predominantly city use, as part of its effort to widen its market share in Europe, which at 3.7 percent is less than half its share in the United States. Though relatively strong in Britain and Germany, Toyota has lagged in other big markets like Italy and France. 
To overcome that weakness, Toyota opened the $570 million factory at Valenciennes where it makes the Yaris. Sales have been so strong that Fujio Cho, the president of Toyota, announced this month that Toyota would raise production to 180,000 cars a year, from 150,000. From January to May, Toyota lifted its European market share to 3.7 percent, from 3.6 percent in the corresponding period last year, even as the overall European market contracted by 3.3 percent.
For Peugeot, the deal is typical of the kind of industrial alliances it has pursued over the years to cut costs and gain economies of scale while sitting out the round of mergers and acquisitions that swept the global automobile industry.
Earlier this year, for instance, Jean-Martin Folz, the chairman of Peugeot, announced a similar agreement with Ford to cooperate in developing and building diesel engines. That agreement followed older and tested alliances with Fiat of Italy and Renault, Peugeot's domestic rival, to develop and manufacture components and entire vehicles. 
Marc Ferrant, a Peugeot spokesman, said the new model would be sold under Peugeot's two brands, Peugeot and Citroen.
Adam Collins, an analyst with Schroder Salomon Smith Barney, called the agreement "a helpful step to achieve greater economies of scale, without the irritations of being in a full-blown alliance."
Peugeot's strategy has yielded considerable success. Peugeot has overtaken larger rivals like Ford and General Motors to capture the second-largest share of the European market, after Volkswagen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MARKET SHARE (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); DIESEL ENGINE MFG (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (64%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (50%) AUTOMOBILES 

COMPANY: PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (95%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (94%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%) TOYOTA MOTOR CORP; PSA PEUGEOT-CITROEN 

TICKER: UG (PAR) (95%); TYT (LSE) (94%); TM (NYSE) (94%); 7203 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES WHOLESALERS; SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) EUROPE (98%); FRANCE (95%); POLAND (92%); JAPAN (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%) FRANCE; JAPAN; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



755 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1910 words

HEADLINE: Town Immortalized by Art Is Divided Over Industry; 
Can Culture and Factories Coexist on the River?

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: HUDSON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
The tourism industry has worked hard in recent years to cast the Hudson River Valley as a ruddy-cheeked play land of nature, history, art and cute-as-a-button Victorian bed-and-breakfast hotels.
 But here in this old factory town 100 miles north of New York, you see the grittier truth: The Hudson Valley was also the nation's first industrial heartland. 
 Before River Rouge and Pittsburgh steel, before Chicago had shoulders, the mills of the mighty Hudson roared and belched their fire. The lush 19th-century landscape paintings of the Hudson River School and the clattering engines of the steam age grew up side by side in places like this. Whether art and industry can coexist again on the modern river, many residents here say, is now the question. 
A proposal for a huge new cement plant, in a town where cement-making roots run deep -- but where art galleries and antiques shops drive the new economy -- has deeply divided Hudson along lines of class, culture and, to no small degree, aesthetics. Would the plant destroy the town's charm, and so too its emerging tourist economy, or would the return of big cement be a restoration, a sign that old heavy-industry Hudson is on its way back? What is the value of the town's most celebrated and frequently depicted artistic motif, the view of Mount Merino? And who derives the benefit from that view, the old families that built the town or the recent arrivals who have helped revive its fortunes?
"I think it's the devil at work," said David Paulsen, 46, an Abstract Expressionist painter who moved here in 1994 from a loft in Brooklyn, partly for the natural beauty and partly because the rents were cheap. He said he would think about moving away again if the cement plant came to town.
Jim Sherman, 26, a Hudson native, said that as far as he was concerned, the people who were threatening to leave Hudson probably should. He just wants a cement plant job, he said, as his father had before him and his grandfather before that.
"I've already put in my application," he said.
The plant, proposed by a Canadian company, St. Lawrence Cement, presents a complex bundle of costs and benefits. It would replace an old and antiquated cement factory across the river in Catskill, and produce much less of the types of air pollution blamed for acid rain and smog. 
But the new plant would be four times larger. It would bring cement making back into Hudson, but with a technology that has changed greatly since the last plant closed here in 1975; cement plants no longer need the armies of workers they once did. It would feature high-tech air scrubbers, but the resulting smokestack, rising 40 stories above the limestone quarry, would be visible for miles. 
Meanwhile, the economic arc of Hudson has been going entirely the other way: toward art and tourism. As recently as the early 1990's, residents say, the city's downtown was a sad and sometimes frightening place of boarded-up buildings and aimless men. When Claude Carone moved here from New York City in the early 1990's to pursue his painting career, a three-story building could still be had for only $20,000. He and two friends bought one such place to use for their studios. Now the main shopping strip, Warren Street, is clogged with shoppers and chic new restaurants.
Art tourism has also thrived at Olana, the historic home of the artist Frederic Edwin Church, who built his mansion and landscaped grounds just a few miles south of here with the fortune he earned in the 1850's and 1860's from his gargantuan Hudson River School canvases. The home of Thomas Cole, who founded the Hudson River School and lived just across the river in Catskill, is being restored this summer as a museum and historic monument.
But there are many places the new economy has not touched. On Columbia Street, one block away from the thriving galleries, many houses remain run-down. Drugs and prostitution remain a problem, residents say. 
Jimmie C. Binford, a 57-year-old resident, was sitting outside on a recent sweltering afternoon having a beer with friends. He agreed that the plant would not do much for him personally, and probably would not add a lot of jobs to the community, either.(Most of the roughly 130 new jobs at the plant are expected to be taken by workers from the Catskill factory.) It might pollute and it might be noisy. But he supported it anyway, he said, for the future.
"That plant is for the kids coming up," he said.

A Required Stop for Artists
The view of Mount Merino, looking south from Hudson, became a required stop for any artist refining his or her skills in 19th-century landscape art. Mostly forgotten local painters like Henry Ary and the Parton brothers, Ernest and Arthur, lived only a few blocks from the place that became established as the ideal spot to set up an easel, just off Bay Road. Sanford Robinson Gifford grew up here and kept a studio even after he became famous down in New York City. The Merino view was painted on everything from pottery to furniture.
But when Don Christensen began assembling a museum exhibition here earlier this year showing how artists depicted Merino over the centuries, he kept stumbling over an odd phenomenon. Many of the artists had lied. 
South Bay, once a languid curve of the Hudson that lapped up on the shores just below Mount Merino, was being filled in bit by bit in the 1800's: by railroad lines and foundries, by dredging spoils from the river and by other long-defunct industries of various sorts. Many painters, however, simply left that development out of the picture. They painted South Bay as though it were still a pristine Arcadian sanctuary, where cows could drift down to the water to drink.
Mr. Christensen, a writer who opposes the cement plant -- he created the exhibition to remind people of the town's visual heritage -- said he found evidence from real-estate advertisements and railroad brochures suggesting that Merino's view was still a selling point in the town, even in the midst of its industrialization. But he still hasn't figured out what the artists were thinking.
The relationship of the Hudson River School and the Industrial Revolution is a subject that others have puzzled over before. Arnold Pickman, an archaeologist from New York who was researching the cultural history of Mount Merino and South Bay several years ago under a contract with the Army Corps of Engineers, ultimately concluded that by minimizing the impact of industrialization, the artists were tacitly approving of it. "They saw industrialization in harmony with nature," Mr. Pickman said. "The conflict is not expressed in most of these paintings." 
Officials at Scenic Hudson, a conservation group that opposes the cement plant, have argued on the other hand that omitting the evidence of Hudson's foundries and mills was an early environmentalist protest by the painters who -- in the spirit of Mr. Christensen's exhibit -- were showing people the landscapes being lost.
Other historians dismiss both theories. Leo Marx, a professor emeritus of American cultural studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the author of the book, "The Machine in the Garden: Technology and the Pastoral Ideal in America," said that things in the 19th century weren't as clear-cut as they are now. Most artists were not environmentalists as we would use the term, or economic boosters either, he said.
"Thomas Cole was terribly troubled by industrialization, but many other painters weren't," he said. Some were inspired by the ideas of Ralph Waldo Emerson, who asserted that the poet's role, or the painter's, was to reincorporate back into nature the sometimes messy trappings of human nature and so find a scene's inner beauty. 
"The artist sees beyond the surface ugliness," Professor Marx said. "That's the point. That's why he can dispose very easily of the most disagreeable facts."
Surface ugliness is one of the signature traits of a cement plant, as even its supporters admit. Officials at St. Lawrence said that part of their mission since coming to town here in 1999 was to work on their own plan of visual accommodation, if not quite deception. 
A new design was incorporated to try to bunch the plant's structures together to minimize their apparent bulk. A planned railroad link that would have required high-rise silos right on the river's edge was abandoned. The Air Force was consulted about how it painted its planes to make them harder to see against the sky. 
"We really tried to look at it as a piece of art," said Bob Bristol, the president of the Saratoga Associates, a landscape, architecture and engineering firm that has worked with St. Lawrence Cement. "What were the colors that would minimize its impact? How should it be coated? Should there be vegetation?"
Ultimately, a seven-shade color scheme of blues, grays and whites, based on the local atmospheric conditions, was selected for the high-rise stack and pipe system, Mr. Bristol said. The company's engineer in charge of the project is the first to admit that it doesn't entirely do the job.
"It doesn't hide it -- you can't do that -- but it does break it up a bit," said Phillip Lochbrunner, a vice president and a manager of the project.

The Past Is Prologue
The judge appointed to the St. Lawrence Cement plant case is expected to take months to consider the evidence before sending on her findings to the State Department of Environmental Conservation. Meanwhile, Hudson continues to evolve, and its past is still dictating the pattern.
The continuing strength of the economy to the south in New York City has meant a boom in the demand for cement, and it has also meant more tourist visits and art purchases, and more people ready and able to buy weekend homes two and a half hours north of the city. 
More construction and renovation work locally -- building and restoring homes and businesses -- has in turn meant more manual labor jobs than could have been imagined a few years ago, to the point at which the existing factories are struggling to find workers. Kaz Inc., a maker of health-care products, now features a banner outside its brick walls: Now Hiring.
And the presence of more working artists in the community has been a reminder that art, once common here and becoming so again, is also physical labor of a certain type, and that a lot of artists struggle hard to pay their bills.
Mr. Paulsen, the Abstract Expressionist painter, said he worked construction to support himself. He has learned taping and plastering over the years, he said, along with framing, plumbing, basic wiring and putting up wallboard. And with the local building economy booming, he said, he has to turn away work to allow himself time to paint.
"Anybody that can screw in a light bulb can get a job," he said.

In Art's Footsteps
The paintings of the Hudson River School are portraits of the Northeast, captured at a time when 19th-century America was re-examining its ideas about nature. The landscapes helped spur tourism and environmentalism. 
This is the fourth of 10 summer articles in which The New York Times returns to the places illuminated by Hudson River School artists. In the fifth article, seamen at the Coast Guard Station at Eaton's Neck on Long Island carry on a tradition of ocean rescue dating to the mid-19th century, and like the shimmering scene that John F. Kensett painted there on the beach, the elements are still timeless: youth, optimism, patriotism, and above all, the endless golden glow of high summer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, "Mount Merino," after 1837, artist unknown. The Atlas Cement loading dock area, at the foot of Mount Merino near Hudson, N.Y. The plant is defunct.; A proposal for a cement plant in Hudson, a town where making cement runs deep, but where shops and galleries drive the economy. Supporters of the plant wore blue to a town meeting on the issue in May. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1); The view from Olana, the home of Frederic Edwin Church, who paid for his house and landscaped grounds with the fortune he made from his Hudson River School canvases.; Sentiment runs high for and against the proposed Hudson cement plant, shown in a rendering, right. Would the plant destroy the town's charm, or would the return of industry be a restoration? The plant would be visible from Olana.; "Mount Merino and South Bay" (left) 1865, Arthur Parton; "Mount Merino" (center) about 1850, Henry Ary; "Mount Merino," 1859, Sanford Robinson Gifford. The works appeared at a museum exhibition earlier this year. (Photographs by Librado Romera/The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LODGING (90%); CEMENT MFG (90%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); PAINTING (89%); ACID RAIN (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TOURISM (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); SMOG (60%); AIR POLLUTION (60%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HOLCIM (CANADA) INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327320 READY-MIX CONCRETE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS327310 CEMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS212312 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE MINING & QUARRYING (51%); SIC3273 READY-MIXED CONCRETE (51%); SIC3241 CEMENT, HYDRAULIC (51%); SIC1422 CRUSHED & BROKEN LIMESTONE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



756 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Profits in Big Drop As Personal Spending Rises 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
Corporate profits shriveled as the economy barely limped ahead in the first quarter, the government reported today, but a brightening mood among consumers implied that a recession might be averted.
 The Commerce Department lowered its estimate of growth in gross domestic product in the first quarter to an anemic annual rate of 1.2 percent, from 1.3 percent. That was not much ahead of the 1 percent rate of advance in the fourth quarter of 2000. 
 G.D.P. measures total national economic output within United States borders.
Companies' profits after paying taxes shrank at a 6.2 percent rate, or by $39 billion a year in the first quarter, twice the pace estimated a month ago. It was the steepest quarterly decline in profits in three years and came after a 4.3 percent decline in the fourth quarter.
The decline in corporate profits has been one reason the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates six times this year. Companies invest less in new plants and equipment and lay more people off when their profits are pressed, lifting risks of recession. A recession is typically defined as two quarters or more of declining national output. 
The report today, however, contained some optimistic signs about consumer spending, which accounts for two-thirds of national economic activity. More of that appeared later in a private-sector survey of consumer sentiment.
The personal consumption expenditure component of the gross domestic product gained at a relatively healthy 3.4 percent annual rate during the first quarter instead of the 2.9 percent previously estimated. That was up from a 2.8 percent rate of growth in the fourth quarter and showed that shoppers were still in the stores.
A separate report, on the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index, showed a gain for a second month in June, rising to 92.6 from 92.0 in May. 
"This is the type of reading we would expect to see as the economy turns into a recovery," said Drew Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers in New York.
The findings suggest that as government tax rebates begin to flow in July and as marginal tax rates fall, consumers may spend the money and keep the economy churning out goods and services.
Another report released today showed that weakness in manufacturing in the Midwest might be bottoming out. The Chicago purchasing managers index for June was 44.4, topping forecasts for a reading of 39.3 and well ahead of 38.7 in May. "This rise could indicate the worst is over," the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago said.
A broader countrywide survey to be issued by the group on Monday will be closely scanned for signs that the hard-pressed industrial sector is on the mend.
Some analysts say the economy may have contracted, or come close to it, during the second quarter, which ends on Saturday. The government will not release its estimate of second-quarter G.D.P. for another month, but private-sector analysts speculate that a sharp scaling back in business investment may have halted the economic expansion during the April-June period.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. ('96- '01) 1st Qtr. Final To: +1.2%From: +1.3(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (78%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (65%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (61%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



757 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Report Finds Flaws in Study Of California Power Companies 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
An investigative arm of Congress faulted federal regulators today for claiming that there was no evidence to support accusations that power companies manipulated California's electricity market.
 The General Accounting Office reviewed a study by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission issued in February. The energy agency found no evidence that companies withheld power to drive up prices. 
 Politicians in California and some economists have been asserting for months that power companies withheld available electrical generating capacity to create or worsen shortages. Generating companies had cited the energy agency's report to rebut those accusations.
The accounting office said the agency's work looked only at physical reasons for outages and did not explore the possibility that generating companies used bidding strategies to withhold supplies. Moreover, the office found that the study did not prove that cutoffs had occurred for unavoidable physical reasons.
"FERC's study was not thorough enough to support its overall conclusion that audited companies were not physically withholding electricity supply to influence prices," the accounting office said.
The office said that industry experts it consulted agreed it was "practically impossible" to determine whether cutoffs were justified merely by examining physical evidence because plants frequently ran with some physical problems.
The accounting office's study comes a week after three former employees of Duke Energy, a leading generator in California, told the State Legislature that the company shut production units to drive up prices.
The energy agency has an obligation under federal law to ensure "just and reasonable" electricity prices. It has found that electricity prices in California have not met that standard, but recently it began imposing price controls.
Some analysts have said they suspected generating companies kept generating units off-line, limiting competition and forcing California's grid operator to pay stratospheric prices to avoid blackouts. The accusations were supported by circumstantial evidence that showed supplies of electricity declining this year when compared with the year before.
Generating companies have said they are doing all they can to run aging power plants at full capacity to meet demand. They say they shut units only for routine maintenance.
The energy agency conducted inspections and telephone inquiries at several California generating plants. It found the cutoffs were justified.
Curt Hebert Jr., the energy agency's chairman, wrote a letter to the accounting office, saying he agreed with its "basic findings." But he said his agency's study was never intended to examine all accusations of withholding but only to explore whether price manipulation had occurred in the few cases that were examined. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ACCOUNTING (91%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); EVIDENCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); INSPECTIONS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (84%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%)

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



758 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: U.S. to Reassess Snowmobile Ban in a Park 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
The Interior Department said today that it would reconsider a Clinton administration plan to ban snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park.
 The decision prompted an outcry from environmentalists, who contend that snowmobiles damage the park, threaten wildlife and ruin the park experience. 
 The Clinton administration ordered the ban to go into effect starting in November 2002 and be in full force by 2004. The ban was strongly opposed by snowmobile makers, who filed suit in Wyoming to halt it. 
Today's announcement is a settlement of that lawsuit, which will need the approval of Judge Clarence A. Brimmer of Federal District Court in Cheyenne, Wyo., to become final. 
The Departments of Interior and Justice filed papers today in Cheyenne that instruct the National Park Service to conduct a supplemental environmental impact statement on the matter. The park service's original impact statement in 2000 formed the basis of the Clinton administration's decision to order the ban.
A senior Interior Department official said that the new assessment would simply allow the department to make a more informed decision and that it would do no harm since the ban was not to go into effect for another 18 months. But both the snowmobile industry and environmentalists saw today's announcement as tantamount to scrapping the ban.
The settlement, a product of months of negotiations between the government and the snowmobile makers and the Wyoming State Snowmobile Association, is the latest in a series that have the potential to reverse Clinton-era environmental policies. The administration announced last week, for example, that it would abandon a Clinton plan to reintroduce grizzly bears in the West. 
The snowmobile industry believes that with a new review process, it can persuade the administration that technology has made snowmobiles cleaner and quieter than they were during the 2000 assessment.
Doug Burdin, a lawyer for the International Snowmobile Manufacturers Association, said: "We just think this administration will be more receptive to a more reasonable approach than the prior administration."
In a statement, the Interior Department said that the Clinton administration had rushed the ban through and that a new review would allow comment from those whose voices "weren't sufficiently heard."
"This administration feels strongly that greater local input, new information, scientific data and economic analysis and wider public involvement can only lead to better, more informed decisions," said the statement, from Mark Pfeifle, the Interior Department spokesman.
Environmental groups disputed the idea that the Clinton administration's process had run roughshod over the snowmobile industry. Snowmobiles have been allowed in Yellowstone for 30 years, and their use has been under re-evaluation since 1990, including two dozen public hearings in the last three years, which yielded more than 71,000 public comments.
"They want another study to study what has been studied for 13 years," said Jon Catton, a spokesman for the Greater Yellowstone Coalition, an environmental group.
The park service was not part of the settlement, and Yellowstone's former superintendent, Michael V. Finley, who resigned in May, is an outspoken critic of snowmobiles.
"Had the park been asked, we would have resisted settlement and sought a vigorous defense," Mr. Finley said in a speech this month to environmentalists gathered in West Yellowstone.
"This is the first time that the opinion of the park was not sought or solicited or considered by an administration," Mr. Finley said.
The decision affects Yellowstone, Grand Teton National Park and the John D. Rockefeller Memorial Highway between the two. It is Yellowstone, however, that has been the capital of snowmobiling, with 83,548 people riding on snowmobiles in the last three-month season.
Under the settlement, the park service is to publish a draft supplemental impact statement by Jan. 21, 2002, and provide any modifications by March 15, 2002. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); SNOWMOBILE MFG (92%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (77%); MAMMALS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAWYERS (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (90%) WYOMING, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



759 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1147 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

U.N. War Crimes Tribunal Expands Milosevic Charges
The war crimes tribunal in The Hague issued an expanded indictment against Slobodan Milosevic, the former Yugoslav president, charging him with additional atrocities and naming more victims of war crimes during the 1999 conflict in Kosovo. Carla Del Ponte, the chief prosecutor, pressed for the arrest of 38 other people indicted for war crimes who are still at large. A7

Prime Minister Zoran Zizic, the leader of the Montenegrin faction in the Yugoslav government, which was allied with Mr. Milosevic, announced his resignation after meeting with President Vojislav Kostunica. Mr. Zizic warned that "Yugoslavia is at the beginning of a crisis." A7

A day after Mr. Milosevic was taken to The Hague, public opinion in Serbia was divided on the handover. A1

Shaky Mideast Cease-Fire
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell left Jerusalem, and Israelis and Palestinians differed over what they had agreed to in a timetable for cementing their wobbly cease-fire. A3

In Paris, Secretary Powell won support from France and China for a plan to loosen restrictions on trade in civilian goods with Iraq, but he said that continued resistance from Russia made it unlikely that the proposal could be adopted at the United Nations by a deadline next week. A3

G.I.'s Questioned in Rape
The police said a Japanese rape victim and a witness had identified her attackers as foreigners who were probably members of the United States military. The announcement came hours before Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan departed for a visit to the United States. A4

U.N. Chief Begins New Term
Kofi Annan of Ghana, 63, swore himself in for a second five-year term as secretary general after the 189-member General Assembly re-elected him by acclamation. In his acceptance speech, Mr. Annan reaffirmed his determination to keep a focus on human rights. A4

World Briefing A4

NATIONAL A8-12, 16

Vice President Expected To Receive Heart Regulator
Vice President Dick Cheney said doctors would probably implant an advanced pacemaker and defibrillator during an operation today, his third medical procedure to combat heart disease since the November election. He also said he expected to be back at work on Monday. A1

Senate Approves Patients' Bill
The Senate, voting 59 to 36 with 9 Republicans joining all 50 Democrats, passed a bill that would establish a wide range of patients' rights for more than 200 million Americans with health insurance. President Bush has threatened to veto it. The bill next goes to the House, where Republican leaders hope to address Mr. Bush's concern about the possibility of a huge increase in lawsuits. A1

Economy May Shrink Surplus
The Bush administration raised the possibility that the slowing economy could push the budget surplus down this year by more than the government had estimated. Democrats said that by their definition such a shortfall could create a budget deficit. A1

Maneuvering on Oil Plan
Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, vowed a "fight to the death" against plans for oil drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and said he would hold up a Senate vote on an Interior Department nominee in protest. A16

Snowmobile Ban Review
The Interior Department said it would reconsider a Clinton administration plan to ban snowmobiles in Yellowstone National Park. A10

Osprey Inquiry Cites Officer
The commanding officer of the only Marine Corps squadron of V-22 Ospreys falsified maintenance records because he felt pressure from his superiors to make the innovative but crash-plagued aircraft appear ready for full production, a Pentagon investigation found. Investigators also concluded that other officers had condoned the falsifications. A12

Report Criticizes Regulators
Congressional investigators faulted federal regulators for saying no evidence supported accusations that power companies had manipulated California's electricity market. A9

Religion Journal A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

3 Vieques Protesters Freed After Finishing Sentences
Roberto Ramirez, the Bronx Democratic chairman; Adolfo Carrion Jr., a city councilman from the Bronx; and Assemblyman Jose Rivera of the Bronx were released from a federal detention center after serving 37 days of 40-day sentences for trespassing during protests at the Vieques naval bombing range in Puerto Rico. The Rev. Al Sharpton, who was given 90 days, remains jailed. B1

Outburst at Terror Trial
Mokhtar Haouari, 32, an Algerian accused in a millennium terrorist plot, brought proceedings in his federal trial in Manhattan to a halt for the day by flailing his arms and banging his head on the counsel table as an old friend and former co-defendant testified against him. B3

Mayor Is Apartment Hunting
Mayor Giuliani has looked at more than 10 schematic drawings of two- and three-bedroom Upper East Side apartments renting for $3,000 to $5,000 a month, and he expects to move out of Gracie Mansion within six weeks, a friend said. B3

EDUCATION

Inquiry Said to Block Test Deal
The chief executive of TestU, an online test-preparation company, said New York City school officials had abruptly halted plans to buy test materials. The reason, he said, is an investigation into whether Dr. Irving S. Hamer Jr., a member of the Board of Education who was a vice chairman of the company, improperly used his influence on its behalf. B1

SPORTS D1-8

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

OBITUARIES A13

Modjadji V
The last of a line of rain queens and the only woman to serve as a tribal ruler in modern-day southern Africa was 64. A13

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Lobbying the Microsoft Case
Federal and state prosecutors are coming under enormous lobbying pressure from Microsoft to settle the antitrust case, and from Microsoft's rivals, most notably AOL Time Warner, to continue litigating. A1

Prospects Dim for G.E. Deal
General Electric's acquisition of Honeywell International appeared all but dead after G.E.'s chairman, John F. Welch Jr., rejected a last-ditch change by Honeywell intended to satisfy European regulators. C1

Advice to Investors
The S.E.C., responding to an outpouring of complaints, has issued an alert to investors advising them not to rely solely on stock analysts' reports when they make decisions about buying and selling stocks. C1

Profits Drop, Spending Rises
Corporate profits shrank as the economy barely limped ahead in the first quarter, the government said, but a brightening mood among consumers implied that a recession might be averted. The Commerce Department lowered its estimate of growth in gross domestic product in the first quarter to an anemic annual rate of 1.2 percent, from 1.3 percent. C3

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: Mr. Cheney's new heart problem; the Supreme Court exits; youth movement in the N.B.A.
Column: Anthony Lewis.

Bridge B10
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather A16
Public Lives A8

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR CRIMES (94%); INDICTMENTS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (85%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (78%); VETO (78%); LITIGATION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); WITNESSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); HEART DISEASE (66%); BUDGETS (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); RESIGNATIONS (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA (93%); KOSOVO (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); FRANCE (91%); NETHERLANDS (91%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



760 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: Upper Manhattan Loan Program Gets a Three-Month Reprieve 

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
A loan program for fledgling Upper Manhattan businesses that had been threatened with extinction won a three-month reprieve yesterday.
 City and state officials agreed to award $500,000 to the small-business program, known as the Business Resource and Investment Service Center, or Brisc, so that it can complete the four loans that are in the pipeline. 
But no new loans will be authorized. 
 The program, a unit of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, which is a $250 million federal, state and city economic development program, has come under attack in recent months. In six years, it has issued only 38 loans totaling $3 million and yet has cost an additional $4.9 million to operate.
The state will see how it measures up to similar programs for people without previous business experience, said Kevin S. Corbett, the chief operating officer of the Empire State Development Corporation, at yesterday's quarterly meeting of the board that oversees the Empowerment Zone.
Supporters of the program have sought to justify the slow lending pace by saying that it is hard to find qualified borrowers in communities served by the Empowerment Zone, like Harlem, Washington Heights and Inwood.
State officials said after the meeting, however, that their preliminary study suggested that the program did not measure up to other so-called community development financial institutions in the region or across the country.
But Terry C. Lane, the president of the Empowerment Zone, said that the program had steadily increased its loan output and provided technical assistance to 13,387 people. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



761 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Technology Shares Advance Despite Technical Glitches

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Technology stocks advanced again yesterday, as the market continued to celebrate Microsoft's appeals court victory in its antitrust fight with the government.
 But technical glitches held up trading of Nasdaq stocks, prompting the exchange to extend its trading an hour, to 5 p.m., and delayed the compilation of major market indexes. 
 The Nasdaq composite index closed up 35.08 points, or 1.65 percent, at 2,160.54. 
Blue chips, meanwhile, gave back some of their gains made Thursday, when investors had a delayed positive response to the Federal Reserve's sixth interest rate cut of the year. The Dow Jones industrial average was down 63.81 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 10,502.40. 
Wall Street's broadest measure, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, fell 1.82 points, or 0.15 percent, to 1,224.38. 
 On the last day of a dismal quarter, one that was marred by more than 600 profit warnings, analysts said the market was beginning to look ahead. With six interest rate cuts this year -- the latest delivered Wednesday -- investors seem to believe that business could turn around in the second half of the year.
 "We are seeing signs that the economy is stabilizing, and that is great news," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. "And what we are seeing vis-a-vis Microsoft is that the current administration is pro-business, and that's good. That combination of news is going to spark a summer rally."
 Technology stocks continued to benefit by association with Microsoft. But the software maker retreated slightly from its gains of Thursday, when a federal appeals court reversed a lower court ruling ordering the breakup of the company. Microsoft, part of the Dow industrial average, gained 26 cents, to $73.
 Technology advancers included Hewlett-Packard, which rose $1.35, to $28.60, and Intel, which fell 39 cents, to $29.25.
 But the Dow's gain was severely limited by Honeywell. It tumbled $3.30, to $34.90, after proposing to reduce the price of General Electric's takeover offer by more than $1 billion and to sell off units worth $2.1 billion to win the necessary approval from the European Union.
 John F. Welch, the chief executive of G.E., rejected the proposal, saying it made no sense for shareholders and that it still fell short of what European Union regulators were seeking. G.E. gained 13 cents, to $49.
 Investors have been alternately skittish about earnings and the economy and optimistic that business will improve in the second half of the year. They were disappointed Wednesday by the Fed, which lowered interest rates by a quarter point, half the size many on Wall Street wanted.
 But after thinking about the Fed's move, analysts said the market saw the smaller cut as a sign that the economy was improving.
 "All the economic data over the last few weeks has been better than expected, and that shows a trend that things are getting better," Mr. Hogan of Jefferies said.
He was also encouraged by a string of stronger-than-expected reports, including two released yesterday. The Chicago Purchasing Management Association reported its June index rose to 44.4 from 38.7 in May.
Another positive for the economy came from the University of Michigan's report on consumer sentiment, which was reported to have risen to 92.6 in June from 92 in May.
In the bond market, Treasury prices fell. The 10-year Treasury note fell 18/32, to a price of 97. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.40 percent from 5.33 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 16/32, to 94 20/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.76 percent from 5.67 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leaders and Laggards in the Quarter"Securities with the largest gains and declines in percentage terms in the secondquarter of 2001, as calculated by The Associated Press. Preferred shares are excluded as are securities that began the quarter at less than $5 a share. No more than one class of a security is listed. New York Stock ExchangeLeaders Midway GamesClosing priceMarch 30: $7.30June 29: $18.50 ChangeDollars: +$11.20Percent: +153.4% Sonic AutomotiveClosing priceMarch 30: 7.80June 29: 19.10 ChangeDollars: +11.30Percent: +144.9 Group 1 AutomotiveClosing priceMarch 30: 12.55June 29: 29.60 ChangeDollars: +17.05Percent: +135.9 Pharmaceutical ResourcesClosing priceMarch 30: 13.24June 29: 30.69 ChangeDollars: +17.45Percent: +131.8 Krispy Kreme DoughnutsClosing priceMarch 30: 18.00June 29: 40.00 ChangeDollars: +22.00Percent: +122.2 LAGGARDSWestpoint StevensClosing priceMarch 30: $9.00June 29: $1.36 ChangeDollars: -$7.64Percent: -84.9% SaviaClosing priceMarch 30: 18.30June 29: 2.80 ChangeDollars: -15.50Percent: -84.7 ComdiscoClosing priceMarch 30: 8.00June 29: 1.33 ChangeDollars: -6.67Percent: -83.4 US AggregatesClosing priceMarch 30: 5.90June 29: 1.35 ChangeDollars: -4.55Percent: -77.1 USGClosing priceMarch 30: 15.28June 29: 4.22 ChangeDollars: -11.06Percent: -72.4 NasdaqLeaders VysisClosing priceMarch 30: $6.00June 29: $25.20 ChangeDollars: +$19.20Percent: +320.0% Serena SoftwareClosing priceMarch 30: 9.13June 29: 36.34 ChangeDollars: +27.22Percent: +298.3 Genesis MicrochipClosing priceMarch 30: 9.94June 29: 36.15 ChangeDollars: +26.21Percent: +263.8 PixelworksClosing priceMarch 30: 10.00June 29: 35.74 ChangeDollars: +25.74Percent: +257.4 ExpediaClosing priceMarch 30: 13.06June 29: 46.60 ChangeDollars: +33.54Percent: +256.7 LAGGARDS CrayfishClosing priceMarch 30: $9.13June 29: $0.10 ChangeDollars: -$9.03Percent: -99.0% Frontline Capital GroupClosing priceMarch 30: 10.19June 29: 1.50 ChangeDollars: -8.69Percent: -85.3 Prosoft Training.comClosing priceMarch 30: 7.88June 29: 1.25 ChangeDollars: -6.63Percent: -84.1 Exodus CommunicationsClosing priceMarch 30: 10.75June 29: 2.06 ChangeDollars: -8.69Percent: -80.8 PurchasePro.comClosing priceMarch 30: 7.25June 29: 1.48 ChangeDollars: -5.77Percent: -79.6 American Stock ExchangeLEADERS Elite PharmaceuticalsClosing priceMarch 30: $5.50June 29: $11.30 ChangeDollars: +$5.80Percent: +105.5% Maxxam GroupClosing priceMarch 30: 13.00June 29: 24.73 ChangeDollars: +11.73Percent: +90.2 AMC EntertainmentClosing priceMarch 30: 7.08June 29: 13.00 ChangeDollars: +5.92Percent: +83.6 Intelli CheckClosing priceMarch 30: 5.66June 29: 10.15 ChangeDollars: +4.49Percent: +79.3 Peoples HoldingClosing priceMarch 30: 18.49June 29: 33.01 ChangeDollars: +14.52Percent: +78.5 LAGGARDS SamesClosing priceMarch 30: $9.40June 29: $0.17 ChangeDollars: -$9.23Percent: -98.2% Spinnaker IndustriesClosing priceMarch 30: 5.30June 29: 0.95 ChangeDollars: -4.35Percent: -82.1 GB HoldingsClosing priceMarch 30: 12.12June 29: 3.25 ChangeDollars: -8.87Percent: -73.2 Grey WolfClosing priceMarch 30: 6.50June 29: 4.00 ChangeDollars: -2.50Percent: -38.5 Abraxas PetroleumClosing priceMarch 30: 5.10June 29: 3.16 ChangeDollars: -1.94Percent: -38.0(Source: The Associated Press) Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); TAKEOVERS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PROFIT WARNINGS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (67%); INTEL CORP (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (53%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



762 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Lobbying Is in Full Swing From Microsoft and Rivals
As federal and state prosecutors ponder what to do next with Microsoft, they have already come under enormous lobbying pressure from the company to quickly settle and from its rivals, most notably AOL Time Warner, to continue litigating.
 The lobbying campaign was in full swing even before the decision by a federal court of appeals on Thursday that vacated the order to break up Microsoft but also found that the company had engaged in a raft of anticompetitive practices. Page A1. 

Microsoft Celebration Continues
Microsoft made further gains yesterday, and other technology stocks continued to advance, in celebration of the software company's appeals court victory in its antitrust fight with the government. Technical problems caused a delay in trading on Nasdaq. The Nasdaq composite index closed up 35.08 points, or 1.7 percent, to 2,160.54. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 63.81 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 10,502.40. And the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.82 points, to 1,224.38. C3.

Patients' Rights Bill Clears Senate
Defying a veto threat from President Bush, the Senate passed a bill that would establish a range of patients' rights for more than 200 million Americans with health insurance. A1.

TMP Worldwide in Deal for HotJobs
TMP Worldwide, parent of Monster.com, the job search Web site, said it would buy its rival, HotJobs.com, for $460 million in stock. C2.

Primedia Said to Be Near Deal
Primedia, which publishes Seventeen and New York, is said to be near a deal to buy Emap's U.S. magazine unit for $515 million. C3.

Surplus Is Seen Dwindling Quickly
The Bush administration raised the possibility that the slowing economy could drive the federal budget surplus down this year by more than the government has previously estimated, perhaps by enough to create a budget deficit by the strictest of definitions. A1.

Investment Banker Pleads Guilty
James J. McDermott, 50, the former chief executive of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods whose conviction for stock fraud and conspiracy was thrown out by a federal appeals court in March, pleaded guilty to one charge of insider trading as part of a plea agreement to avoid further prison time and a new trial. C14.

Russia Takes Control Over Gazprom
Russia took control of Gazprom after its shareholders voted to give government representatives 6 out of 11 board seats. C2.

The Face of Corporate Kidnapping
The face of corporate kidnapping in the 21st century is money -- large sums demanded by kidnappers who know what international corporations have been willing to pay to save their workers. The employers, in turn, take out large insurance policies to defray this cost of doing business in the developing world. Specialists estimate that more than $500 million a year goes to pay off professional bands of kidnappers, mostly in South America. A1.

G.A.O. Faults Energy Regulators
The General Accounting Office faulted federal energy regulators for claiming that there was no evidence to support assertions that power companies manipulated the electricity market in California. A9.

G.D.P. Revised to 1.2% Annual Rate
The Commerce Department lowered its estimate of growth in the gross domestic product during the first quarter to an anemic annual rate of 1.2 percent from 1.3 percent. Corporate profits shriveled, but a brightening mood among consumers implied a recession might be averted. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 10,502.40 down 63.81Nasdaq composite -- 2,160.54 up 35.0810-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.40% up 0.07The euro -- $0.8493 up 0.0043The dollar -- 124.76 yen 0.06 Graph tracks monthly closings prices of Microsoft shares from January 2000-June 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); LOBBYING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (87%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (86%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPEALS COURTS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); VETO (76%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (75%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); INSURANCE POLICIES (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (62%); CONSPIRACY (61%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (82%); AOL INC (72%); OAO GAZPROM (63%); EMAP PLC (53%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (52%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); MWW (NYSE) (82%); AOL (NYSE) (72%); OGZD (LSE) (63%); GAZP (RTS) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (72%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (72%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (63%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



763 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: Transforming Trust into Trade 

BYLINE:  By Mikhail S. Gorbachev; Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the former Soviet president, heads the Gorbachev Foundation, a research institute.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
Not only because of the recent summit in Ljubljana, but from my own discussions with both Vladimir Putin and George W. Bush, I have a new optimism about the future of relations between the United States and Russia. Unlike the hawks in Washington and Moscow who would like to put Russian-American relations on the foreign policy back burner, these two presidents understand the importance of the relationship.
 Now, for the first time in years the word "trust" has been heard in our dialogue. The predecessors of Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush shied away from that word out of excessive concern for their domestic political foes. But it was not just the word that fell into disuse; trust itself had begun to erode. 
 Something else was said at the summit: Russia and the United States are not enemies. Continuing to emphasize this truth is of crucial importance.
So, should we now just rejoice and wait for the new presidents' new style to be translated into concrete deeds? I don't think so. We cannot afford to wait, because we have very little time to make things work -- and also because it is only too clear that the words about trust and partnership are already being used by some in the United States as a rhetorical screen, with transparent and pernicious aims.
I am greatly worried by the attempts of some American commentators -- in politics and the press -- to hinge the entire Russian-American relationship on two goals: deploying a missile defense system and enlarging the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The subtext is: if, to achieve these goals, we must sometimes talk nice to the Russians, let's do so. The same pundits and politicians are equally blunt about consultations with American allies and partners: we can talk, but in the end we shall do what's good for us.
One would have to be very naive to think that such a strategy would not be resisted. If this attitude were to become United States policy, the Start 1 and Start 2 treaties would fall apart. Russia would put multiple warheads on its intercontinental missiles. A new round of the nuclear arms race and of proliferation of weapons of mass destruction would be inevitable.
Instead of jeopardizing global security, we must pursue policies and find solutions that are mutually acceptable. Such solutions cannot be found if security issues, important as they are, are the only item on the Russian-American agenda.
Perhaps the greatest failure during the 1990's was that Russia and the United States did not lay a groundwork for business and trade. Our relations are much the worse for it -- in contrast to those between the United States and China, for which economic ties act as a powerful stabilizer.
I am convinced that a breakthrough in Russian-American business relationships is possible in high technology, information and telecommunications, and science-based products. Of course, it is for the private business of the two countries to lead the way, but to get things off the ground, governments must act, and not necessarily through bureaucratic structures or commissions. The important thing is that our entrepreneurs should feel support, should see that obstacles are being removed.
Clearly, there must be major changes in the Russian economy: a favorable investment climate, stable and predictable taxation, a genuine effort to fight corruption. A start has been made. What's primarily needed from the United States is a signal from the Bush administration that doing business with Russia is in the national interest of the United States. I understand that, as agreed by the two presidents, a large delegation of American businessmen will soon be visiting Russia. 
In Ljubljana, Mr. Putin and Mr. Bush agreed on a mechanism for consultations on strategic stability. At their next summit, in Genoa, they should agree on how to give an impetus to trade and commerce between the United States and Russia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ARMS RACE (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (69%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (66%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SLOVENIA (90%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



764 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: BILL ESTABLISHING PATIENTS' RIGHTS PASSES IN SENATE 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
Defying a veto threat from President Bush, the Senate tonight passed a bill that would establish a wide range of patients' rights for more than 200 million Americans with health insurance.
 The bill would, for the first time, set detailed federal standards for private health insurance and would allow patients to file suit, in federal or state court, to enforce their rights. 
 The vote was 59 to 36. Nine Republicans joined 50 Democrats in voting for the legislation. Thirty-five Republicans and the one independent, James M. Jeffords of Vermont, voted against it. 
The bill goes now to the House of Representatives, where Republican leaders hope to address Mr. Bush's concern about the possibility of a huge increase in lawsuits. 
But Democrats and some Republican champions of patients' rights, led by Representative Charlie Norwood of Georgia, said they would resist any changes that weaken protections for patients or the patients' right to sue health maintenance organizations for decisions that cause injury or death.
After the vote, President Bush said the Senate had made some improvements in the bill so it "more closely reflects my principles" than did the original version. But Mr. Bush said: "The Senate failed to address the danger that excessive, unlimited litigation in state courts would drive up premium costs and cause many American families to lose their health insurance. I could not in good conscience sign this bill because it puts the interests of trial lawyers before the interest of patients."
Today's vote was a big victory for the new Democratic majority in the Senate; for the majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, and for Bill Clinton, who as president started the push for patients' rights in 1997, after the failure of his earlier effort to guarantee health coverage for all Americans.
In his debut as majority leader, Mr. Daschle insisted that the Senate finish work on the patients' rights bill before going home for the Fourth of July, and in two weeks of debate, he kept up pressure on the Senate to achieve that goal.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, a sponsor of the bill passed tonight, said: "At long last, the Senate has acted to protect patients and doctors. This is a giant step forward in giving power to the powerless, the victims of exploitation by H.M.O.'s." 
Republicans said the bill did nothing to help the 43 million Americans who lack health insurance. Indeed, Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, said, "The bill will drive up health care costs and result in a lot of people losing their health insurance."
Public opinion polls have repeatedly shown support for tighter regulation of H.M.O.'s, and Mr. Bush embraced the concept in last year's presidential campaign. The standards being drafted by Congress represent a major expansion in federal authority over an industry that has been regulated by the states for more than a half-century.
Insurers have vehemently resisted federal regulation. But a tide of discontent with managed care evidently overwhelmed the arguments made by the industry, in a multimillion-dollar campaign of lobbying and advertising.
Senate Democrats beat back every significant Republican challenge to their bill, making compromises where necessary to win the votes of moderate Republicans.
The Republicans who supported the bill were Senators Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, Susan Collins of Maine, Mike DeWine of Ohio, Peter G. Fitzgerald of Illinois, John McCain of Arizona, Gordon H. Smith of Oregon, Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and John W. Warner of Virginia.
Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, asked today: "Why pass something just so the president can end up vetoing it? If this bill is sent to the president, he will veto it, and we'll end up with nothing." 
Mr. McCain of Arizona, the main Republican sponsor of the bill, said tonight: "We will do everything we can, within our power, to get a bill that the president will sign. Without betraying our principles, we can work with the White House, work with House members, and get a bill the president can sign." 
Mr. Daschle urged Mr. Bush to reconsider his veto threat. "We've made a lot of improvements, a lot of changes the president should find to his liking," Mr. Daschle said.
For example, Democrats said, the bill was amended to shield most employers from lawsuits and to require that most patients go through a process of administrative appeals, with an independent medical review of their claims, before filing suit against a health insurance plan. 
The Senate today also adopted a Republican amendment that limits class-action lawsuits. When Mr. Bush threatened to veto the original Senate bill last week, he said it provided "no effective limitations on frivolous class-action suits."
Today's vote was also a victory for the sponsors of the bill, the Bipartisan Patient Protection Act: Senators Kennedy, McCain and John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina.
In a tribute to the maverick Republican, Mr. Daschle said: "We could not have done this without John McCain. John was extremely helpful and remarkably courageous."
The two-week struggle over patients' rights vividly illustrates the difference made by the shift in control of the Senate from Republicans to Democrats earlier this month. Democrats used the power of the majority to set the Senate's agenda, to structure the debate and to keep up pressure for a final vote. 
The Senate passed patients' rights bills twice before, in July 1999 and in June 2000. This time, Democrats said, their majority status gave them a big tactical advantage: Democrats laid down their bill, and Republicans had to show what was wrong with it. In the past, Democrats had the burden of showing what was wrong with a bill written by Republicans.
President Bush and Republicans in Congress said repeatedly that the Senate bill would cause explosive growth in lawsuits against health plans, so that insurance premiums would rise and employers would drop coverage for their employees.
"It could result in a massive increase in the number of uninsured, which is the No. 1 problem in our country," said Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania. But the argument did not seem to resonate, Republicans said, or at least it did not appear to shift many votes.
Democrats said the Republicans did not have much credibility as guardians of the uninsured. For years, the Democrats said, Republicans resisted costly, ambitious schemes to expand coverage through new federal health programs. In recent years, Republicans have proposed new tax breaks to help people buy insurance and have enthusiastically supported the new Children's Health Insurance Program.
Democrats and Republicans in the Senate and the House agree on the core of the Senate bill: substantive guarantees intended to make sure that sick people with insurance receive the care ordered by their doctors, without interference by insurance company clerks.
Under the bill, patients could get emergency care at the nearest hospital, regardless of whether it was affiliated with their health plan. H.M.O.'s would have to give patients prompt access to medical specialists. Women could visit obstetricians and gynecologists without a referral or prior authorization. An H.M.O. would have to cover any hospital stay deemed necessary by a doctor caring for a woman after a mastectomy. Doctors would be free to discuss all treatment options with patients, regardless of whether the treatments were covered by a health plan.
The Congressional Budget Office estimated that these provisions guaranteeing "access to care" would eventually increase insurance premiums by 2 percent. But sponsors of the bill said the guarantees would also improve the quality of care.
While senators of both parties endorsed these standards, they disagreed on questions of enforcement: Should the federal standards override existing state laws? When should patients be allowed to sue -- in what court, for what reasons, subject to what limits on damages? 
Democrats insisted, as Mr. Daschle said, that "a right without a remedy is no right at all."
By a vote of 98 to 0, the Senate today approved a proposal that generally requires patients to exhaust their administrative appeals before they can file suit against an H.M.O. 
However, under the proposal, offered by Senator Fred Thompson, Republican of Tennessee, a patient could go to court if an independent medical reviewer failed to rule on an appeal within 31 days.
Under the bill, patients could sue insurers in state court, for medical decisions, or in federal court, for administrative decisions on such questions as whether a part-time employee is eligible for coverage. 
In federal court, there would be no limit on damage awards for economic losses or pain and suffering, and plaintiffs could recover up to $5 million in "civil assessments" resembling punitive damages for flagrant violations of their rights. In state court, damages would be subject to the limits of state law, if any exist.
The Senate tonight rejected a proposal to set strict limits on damages, as President Bush has demanded. The proposal would have allowed new lawsuits only in federal court, with no punitive damages and with a $750,000 limit on payments for pain and suffering.
In its original form, the Senate bill would have provided protections to most Americans with private health insurance. Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant Republican leader, said it was hypocritical for Congress to exclude federal health programs. The Senate today approved Mr. Nickles's proposal to include federal employees and people enrolled in Medicare and Medicaid, the programs for the elderly, the disabled and the poor.
Final numbers were not immediately available. But the Senate bill now appears to cover almost all of the 231 million Americans with health insurance coverage from any source. 
At first, most Republicans opposed any new right for patients to sue H.M.O.'s, but eventually many decided that patients should have a limited new right. Consumer groups and doctors said that H.M.O.'s should be held accountable in court, like doctors, because health plans were making medical decisions.
Democrats said the prospect of lawsuits would prompt health plans to approve many claims that they now deny.
"Nothing persuades an H.M.O. to do the right thing like the fear of liability if they do the wrong thing," Mr. Kennedy said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle met with reporters yesterday as a fellow Democrat, Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., debated on a nearby monitor. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times )(pg. A10) Chart: "Highlights: Senate Defines Patients' Rights"Here is a summary of provisions of the Senate bill to define patients' rights for the more than 200 million Americans with private health insurance or coverage under Medicare, Medicaid or the federal employees' health plan. House Republican leaders have developed a bill with similar provisions but a much more limited right to sue. OVERALL GUIDELINESDEADLINES -- Health insurers must rule on claims within deadlines set by federal law, and must pay most claims within 30 days.WHISTLE-BLOWERS -- H.M.O.'s cannot retaliate against doctors or nurses who advocate on behalf of patients or report problems in quality of care.DISCUSSING OPTIONS -- Doctors are free to discuss all treatment options with patients, regardless of whether treatments are covered by health plans.APPEALS -- Patients can appeal the denial of care by seeking an independent medical review. LAWSUITSEMPLOYERS -- Employers have no legal liability unless they directly participate in decisions that harm patients. Employers can protect themselves by naming an outside entity to make decisions and assume liability.INSURERS -- Injured patients can sue insurers in state court (for medical decisions) or in federal court (for administrative decisions). For flagrant violations, plaintiffs in federal court can win up to $5 million in "civil assessments" resembling punitive damages. State court damages are subject to limits of state law, if any. PATIENT CARESPECIALISTS -- Health plans must provide prompt access to medical specialists.OB-GYN -- Women can visit obstetricians and gynecologists without a referral or prior authorization.EMERGENCY CARE -- Patients can get emergency care at the nearest hospital, regardless of whether it is affiliated with their health plan.DRUGS -- Doctors can prescribe any medically necessary drugs, regardless of whether drugs are on the insurer's list of preferred medications.CLINICAL TRIALS -- Health plans must provide access to clinical trials of experimental therapies if no standard treatment is effective.MASTECTOMY -- H.M.O.'s cannot arbitrarily limit hospital stays for women after mastectomy. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOM DASCHLE (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



765 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1013 words

HEADLINE: Budget Surplus Could Dwindle, Bush Aide Says 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
The Bush administration raised the possibility today that the slowing economy could drive the federal budget surplus down this year by more than the government had previously estimated. Democrats said such a shortfall could create a budget deficit by their definition.
 Lawrence B. Lindsey, the director of the White House's National Economic Council, said a rough formula long used by economists suggested that tax revenues could fall about $56 billion short of the $2 trillion the government expected to take in during the fiscal year that ends on Sept. 30. 
 Should the shortfall be that big, the government would still run a substantial surplus this year -- in the range of $200 billion, if excess revenues from Social Security and Medicare are included, Mr. Lindsey said. 
But Democrats in Congress said it would put the government at risk of running a deficit if Social Security and Medicare funds are excluded from the surplus calculations, the standard that Democrats want to use.
There is still considerable uncertainty about the economic outlook, and economists have yet to get a firm grasp of how much of an effect the revenue shortfall and the decline in many stock prices are having on the government's fiscal condition.
In a briefing for reporters arranged by the White House, Mr. Lindsey said the $56 billion figure was intended only to give a sense of the magnitude of the effect that the weakening economy is likely to have on tax receipts. He said it did not reflect an analysis of actual receipts so far this year.
Mr. Lindsey said the $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax cut that President Bush signed into law earlier this month would help the economy -- and tax revenues -- bounce back quickly, safeguarding the surplus over the long run.
But by acknowledging the shortfall, the White House was confirming what budget analysts and Democrats in Congress have been saying for months: that what has been a steady improvement in the nation's fiscal outlook is sure to be reversed, at least temporarily, by the slumping economy.
Earlier this month, the Congressional Budget Office calculated that revenues for the fiscal year would fall $20 billion short of projections. Preliminary calculations by Congressional budget analysts in the last few days suggested that the shortfall was likely to grow larger once tax receipts for June were fully tallied.
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, said in an interview with CNN on Thursday that he expected a shortfall in the range of $20 billion to $30 billion.
Any downturn in tax revenues of $20 billion to $56 billion would have almost no economic significance in a $2 trillion federal budget and a $10 trillion economy. But the political importance could be enormous, especially if the shortfall is big enough that the government has to dip into the Social Security and Medicare surpluses this year.
Democrats have been arguing since the presidential campaign last year that Mr. Bush's tax cut was too big because other needs and an uncertain economy. A return to deficits by any definition would give Democrats ammunition to attack Republicans heading into the 2002 Congressional elections, and would enable Democrats to charge Republicans with raiding Medicare and Social Security to pay for the tax cut.
Both parties have agreed that the Social Security surplus, which is projected to be $156 billion this fiscal year, should be used only to reduce the national debt or shore up the retirement system for the long run.
Democrats and some Republicans in Congress say the Medicare surplus, which is projected at $28 billion this fiscal year, should be treated the same way and not be included in the general government surplus. But the White House has insisted that the Medicare surplus is nothing but an accounting gimmick and should not be treated differently from regular tax revenues.
"We have been saying since the get-go -- since last year -- that a tax cut of the size President Bush was pushing would drive us back into deficit spending," said Thomas S. Kahn, staff director for Democrats on the House Budget Committee. "There's a very high probability that the Bush tax cut is so large that it will force us to spend the Medicare surplus."
Attempting to head off such arguments, Mr. Lindsey said that by putting $41 billion in the hands of consumers this year, the tax cut had helped put a floor under an economy that had been deteriorating for a year. The budget squeeze, he said, was being caused by the weak economy, not the tax cut, which he said was "part of the solution, not part of the problem."
Mr. Lindsey said he thought that any dip in expected revenues was likely to be reversed fairly quickly and that the long-range budget forecast was still for surpluses that would more than cover the tax cut and the administration's other priorities.
Mr. Lindsey said he believed the economy was growing at a 0.6 percent annual rate in the current quarter, after growing at an anemic 1.2 percent rate in the first three months of this year. His estimate was roughly in line with that of most private forecasters.
Asked about the chances of the economy lapsing into a recession this year, Mr. Lindsey said they were "very small."
Mr. Lindsey said economists have long accepted a formula that says for every one percentage point that the economy grows below what was projected, tax revenues decline by 1.4 percent.
Based on that formula, Mr. Lindsey said, revenues could be expected to decline $56 billion, assuming that the economy grows at an annual rate two percentage points fewer during this fiscal year than the government had anticipated.
It is still too early to know what the actual growth rate will be. And Mr. Lindsey said the downturn in revenues would be partially offset by the boost to economic growth that the tax cut is expected to provide.
But the tax cut is not likely to have much effect on the economy until this fall, meaning that there is likely to be little difference in the revenue drop from the tax cut before the start of the new fiscal year on Oct. 1. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MEDICARE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); TAX LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); MITCH DANIELS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



766 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1750 words

HEADLINE: Judicial Reasoning Is All Too Human 

BYLINE:  By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
Forget the 14th Amendment and the peculiarities of California state law. The real inspiration behind Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia's vote to deny the child of an adulterous affair any contact with her natural father was the legend of King Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot. 
 At least that's the way Anthony Amsterdam, a lawyer, and Jerome Bruner, a psychologist, see it. "Much judicial decision-making is driven by psychological processes," Mr. Amsterdam said, and "literature enters powerfully into cultural psychology." 
 So if you want to understand adultery, don't look merely at legal statutes, the two scholars insist. Examine a culture's narrative tradition, what psychologists call its "mythic patterns." Only then, they argue in their provocative book "Minding the Law" (Harvard University Press), can one "fully appreciate the power of the Guinevere legend in shaping Justice Scalia's portrayal of adultery." 
In other words, stories are how we all make sense of marriage and fidelity, death and betrayal, accomplishment and revenge; how Iago eggs Othello to murder and how Tony Soprano can describe himself as a "captain-of-industry type" instead of a mob boss; how you decide whether a giant computer corporation is an unethical shark or simply a fierce competitor, and whether a mayor who wants to divorce his wife is a cheating cad or a henpecked husband.
Stories, and the way judges -- intentionally or not -- categorize and spin them, are as responsible for legal rulings as logic and precedent, Mr. Amsterdam and Mr. Bruner said. Their novel attempt to reach into the psyche of Justice Scalia and other members of the Supreme Court is part of a growing interest in a long-neglected and cryptic subject: the psychology of judicial decision-making.
"The most exciting work in law schools right now is to try to bring an understanding of how people actually think in contact with the law," said Cass Sunstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago Law School and the editor of "Behavioral Economics and the Law" (Cambridge University Press, 2000). "It is just starting."
Of course, legal scholars have long recognized that the law is more than an antiseptic collection of rules, precedents and procedures that stand apart from the larger world of politics, culture, self-interest and morality. In the 1920's and 30's, the legal realists argued that people should pay attention to the social context of the law as well as human psychology. No one should assume that decisions are entirely rational, Jerome Frank declared in his seminal 1930 study, "Law and the Modern Mind," because of the simple fact that "judges are human." But while the psychology of juries has been extensively studied, little research has been done on the psychology of judges. 
"Judges are hard to study," said Stephan Landsman, a law professor at DePaul College of Law in Chicago. "We've had very few opportunities to ask them the sort of questions that we ask juries" all the time. 
Not only are judges reluctant to participate in studies, he said, but few legal scholars have the necessary training to do this kind of research. 
Jeffrey J. Rachlinski, a psychologist and law professor at Cornell Law School, is one who does. Working with Chris Guthrie, a law professor at the University of Missouri School of Law, and Judge Andrew J. Wistrich, a federal district judge in California, Mr. Rachlinkski managed to corral 167 federal magistrate judges and convince them to answer a questionnaire intended to detect five common "cognitive illusions" or mental shortcuts, like perceiving past events to be more predictable than they actually were and overestimating their own ability. (A common example of this bias is a husband's estimate of how much housework he does; in this case, judges were asked to estimate whether they were overturned on appeal more or less frequently than their colleagues.) Do even highly trained judges suffer from the sort of psychological quirks that distort decision-making?
Although the judges were somewhat less susceptible to two of the five, these psychological illusions caused them to err again and again. As the authors wrote in the Cornell Law Review last month, "Wholly apart from political orientation and self-interest, the very nature of human thought can mislead judges confronted by particular types of situations into making consistent and predictable mistakes." 
Yet the legal system takes no account of such mental mechanisms. Indeed, it assumes that judges, with their specialized training and their mastery of the rules of evidence, are much better equipped than jurors to put aside emotion and ignore evidence that might bias a decision. But are they?
In an early study on the subject, Mr. Landsman teamed up with a psychologist, Richard F. Rakos, in 1992 to test whether a group of Ohio judges could discount what they knew to be inadmissible information -- like a defendant's prior conviction. It turned out they couldn't. Those who heard information that reflected badly on the defendant -- but that the law says should be ignored -- ended up voting against the defendant; judges who didn't hear it ruled the other way. Judges "make decisions in the same way that other people make decisions," Mr. Landsman said, but "getting that idea out and following up its implications has been very difficult because it threatens a judge's claim of authority and trustworthiness."
Rather than try to set up scientifically controlled experiments, Theodore Eisenberg, a law professor at Cornell Law School, looks to the real world, studying thousands of actual cases in an effort to discover how judges reach their decisions. He has examined whether juries are a softer touch than judges in product liability cases (they're not), and why bankruptcy judges think they rule more quickly than they actually do (they suffer from self-serving bias -- just like everyone else). But such research is particularly tough to do, Mr. Eisenberg said, because of the way legal databases are organized.
Whatever the experimental design, "the pattern across all of these studies is strikingly consistent," writes Shari Seidman Diamond, a law professor and psychologist at Northwestern University Law School, who has reviewed what research there is for a forthcoming book. "Judges as well as laypersons are influenced by these cognitive biases."
Mr. Amsterdam and Mr. Bruner agree with that conclusion, although they take a more, well, idiosyncratic route to it. For more than 35 years, Mr. Amsterdam has been one of the country's leading capital defense lawyers; the man who persuaded the Supreme Court in 1972 to ban capital punishment on the ground that it was being arbitrarily administered. (The ban was lifted in 1976.) Mr. Bruner is considered a founder of cognitive psychology; after doing research on infant learning, he helped establish the nation's Head Start program. 
Taking a page from Jungian and some cognitive psychologists, Mr. Bruner and Mr. Amsterdam believe that archetypal stories or myths unconsciously give shape to people's perceptions of their own lives. Universal themes and characters offer a kind of rough script or road map for today's bankers and janitors, salesclerks and toll collectors. As Joseph Campbell wrote in his 1949 classic, "The Hero With a Thousand Faces," "The latest incarnation of Oedipus, the continued romance of Beauty and the Beast, stands this afternoon on the corner of 42d Street and Fifth Avenue, waiting for the traffic light to change." 
They also sit in the witness box, at the defense and plaintiff tables, and in the judge's chair, Mr. Amsterdam and Mr. Bruner say. 
Consider the 1989 adultery case, Michael H. v. Gerald D. Michael went to court to get permission to see his biological daughter Victoria, who was born during an on-and-off, six-year affair with Carole. Carole and her husband, Gerald, fought the request and the case worked its way up to the Supreme Court, where Michael lost, 5 to 4.
Justice Scalia wrote the majority opinion, and to the professors' ears, it retells an ancient combat myth that serves as the basis for the legend of King Arthur, Queen Guinevere and Lancelot, a tale of a married woman who is carried off by a ravisher and ultimately rescued by her husband. Justice Scalia presents the case, Mr. Amsterdam and Mr. Bruner contend, as a "winner-take-all struggle" in which the adulterous villain must be punished and the "sanctity" of the family restored. They dissect the opinion to show, for example, how Justice Scalia narrowly defines the category of "family" to mean only one father sanctioned by marriage, not two even if the second is the biological father. Then, they add, he artfully uses rhetoric -- for example, talking about what "Nature requires" -- to make any other definition of family, or any compromise that would take account of both fathers' rights, appear unnatural.
Richard A. Posner, chief judge for the United States Circuit Court of Appeals in Chicago, thinks much of Mr. Amsterdam and Mr. Bruner's analysis is hogwash. The topic is important, said Judge Posner, who wrote about psychology and the law in his recent book, "Frontiers of Legal Theory," but he doubts whether "cognitive psychology or even rational choice theory has the tools to make much progress in the understanding of judicial psychology."
Yet even if it's not clear precisely how judges are affected by these psychological biases, it is clear that they are affected, researchers argue, so adjust the system to correct for them. Consider having a panel instead of a single judge rule on cases, as is regularly done on the appellate level, Mr. Landsman suggests. Rely on juries because they can be shielded from unlawful evidence, Ms. Diamond argues. Set up rules of thumb or guidelines to limit unconscious bias, Mr. Raclinski says. For instance, doctors cannot be found liable unless their care strays from an established customary standard. 
The first hurdle is to get judges to admit they are subject to the same psychological hiccups as everyone else, the field's pioneers say. Professionals can learn to adapt to cognitive biases, but only if they get constant feedback.
"Our whole book, in a sense, is a treatise for the proposition that judges have choices they do not acknowledge to themselves and the world," Mr. Amsterdam said. "They make many decisions under the delusion that those results are foreordained by rules of reason, but they are not."
That's not too surprising. After all, they're only human.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Martin Kozlowski) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); ETHICS (78%); MARRIAGE (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



767 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
G.E. RejectsHoneywell Plan to Save Deal

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN with PAUL MELLER 

 BODY:
General Electric's proposed acquisition of Honeywell International appeared all but dead yesterday after G.E.'s chairman, John F. Welch Jr., rejected a last-ditch modification by Honeywell aimed at satisfying European regulators.
 Increasing friction between the companies emerged as G.E. seemed ready to give up on the deal and Honeywell tried to push it forward. 
 To make the divestitures sought by regulators more palatable to G.E., Honeywell offered to accept about $1.8 billion less than previously agreed. The deal, valued at $45 billion, may become the first between two American companies to be rejected solely because of European antitrust concerns. If G.E. does not withdraw its merger application and the commission rejects it, lawyers express concern about what type of precedent it might set. 
In an unusually blunt letter to Honeywell's chief executive, Michael R. Bonsignore, Mr. Welch said that the Honeywell proposal made "no sense" for G.E. shareholders. 
"What the commission is seeking cuts the heart out of the strategic rationale of our deal," Mr. Welch wrote. "The new deal you propose, in response to the commission, makes no sense for our share owners, for the same strategic reasons."
Shares of Honeywell tumbled 8.6 percent yesterday, to $34.90, after rising sharply Thursday on reports that General Electric had offered to sell a minority stake in a crucial unit to appease European regulators. G.E. stock rose 13 cents, to $49.
At the heart of the dispute is General Electric's aviation financing business, GE Capital Aviation Services, known as Gecas. The European Commission has said it will block the deal unless G.E. agrees to sell part of the financing business to the public or to a competitor, according to executives close to the company. The commission has said it is worried that the business could funnel customers to G.E.'s aviation products, creating an unfair advantage over competitors like Rolls-Royce and Pratt & Whitney, a unit of United Technologies.
G.E. has resisted the commission's suggestion that it sell a stake to a competitor, instead offering earlier this week to sell up to 19.9 percent of the aviation financing business to a noncompetitor. That proposal also scaled back certain Honeywell divestitures. Executives close to the commission said regulators rejected that proposal as insufficient on Thursday, in part, because it came with several strings attached. The investor would have received preferred shares that could not be sold without G.E.'s approval.
Yesterday morning, Mr. Bonsignore sent a letter to Mr. Welch calling for him to relax G.E.'s stance and allow a minority shareholder to have enough "incentive and power to prevent Gecas from improperly discriminating in favor of Honeywell products" to comply with regulators. He also said that Honeywell was willing to accept 1.01 G.E. shares for each Honeywell share, down from 1.055 shares, as previously agreed.
"In our view, this exchange rate reduction would compensate G.E. for any loss of value as a result of the divestiture of 19.9 percent of Gecas," Mr. Bonsignore wrote.
Mr. Welch replied several hours later that G.E. would not pursue Mr. Bonsignore's proposal.
Lawyers and analysts said that Honeywell's maneuver was highly unusual. "It is a wonderful letter -- so poisonous, so public," said Alec Burnside, a competition lawyer and partner at the law firm Linklaters & Alliance in Brussels. "Bonsignore is throwing down the gauntlet by saying the deal can be done and is clearly blaming Welch for not offering what was needed until yesterday."
Others said Mr. Bonsignore's letter smacked of desperation. "Honeywell doesn't want G.E. to withdraw the merger," a lawyer in Brussels said, "so it is threatening G.E. not to walk away. But I doubt Honeywell can scare G.E."
Because of the economic slowdown, many of Honeywell's core businesses are weakening, analysts said, making a deal more urgent. Honeywell is scheduled to report second-quarter earnings on July 18.
Some lawyers questioned whether Honeywell was preparing for a possible lawsuit against G.E., contending breach of contract. "It looks like G.E. really doesn't want the deal, and is now just considering the size of the lawsuit from Honeywell," another lawyer said.
It is unclear whether Honeywell will have a case against G.E. if regulators reject their union. Under the merger agreement, G.E. must make its best efforts to win approval, and Honeywell's previous statements have supported G.E.'s efforts. Mr. Welch went to great pains in his letter yesterday to Mr. Bonsignore to make the relationship seem friendly and in concert.
"At each turn in the road, you and we have successfully negotiated a joint proposal to make to the Commission," he wrote. "Mike, we can both continue to be proud of our employees' heroic efforts over the last eight months to get this deal done."
For the moment, the Europeans are on the sidelines, though they are expected to make a decision at a regularly scheduled meeting on Tuesday. The European Commission said: "It is not for the commission to react to a letter to the General Electric chairman, nor is it our policy to divulge the content of discussions between commission staff and the commissioner himself and the merging parties. As long as the notification remains on the table, the review must proceed. We have an absolute legal deadline of July 12."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John F. Welch Jr., left, chairman of G.E., and Michael R. Bonsignore, Honeywell's chief, are at odds over the terms of their merger. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) Chart: "On the Skids" tracks shares of Honeywell from April through June. (Yesterday: $34.90)(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACQUISITIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); PREFERRED STOCK (67%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (66%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (93%); GE AVIATION (85%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (52%); PRATT & WHITNEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL; EUROPEAN UNION; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; EUROPEAN COMMISSION 

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (95%); HON (LSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (93%); GEC (LSE) (93%); GE (SWX) (93%); GE (NYSE) (93%); UTX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (95%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS333611 TURBINE & TURBINE GENERATOR SET UNITS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS (52%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (91%); JOHN K WELCH (79%) WELCH, JOHN F JR; BONSIGNORE, MICHAEL R; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 



768 of 768 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Case Back in Play, And the Lobbying Heats Up 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29 

 BODY:
As federal and state prosecutors ponder what to do next with Microsoft, they have already come under enormous lobbying pressure from the company to settle quickly and from its rivals, most notably AOL Time Warner, to continue litigating.
 The lobbying campaign was in full swing even before Thursday's decision by a federal court of appeals here, which vacated the order to break up Microsoft but also found that the company had engaged in a raft of anticompetitive practices in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. It is now expected to intensify and to become, for the city's cadre of lawyers and lobbyists, one of the most lucrative fights of the year. 
 Legal experts said today that one virtue of the appeals court decision was that it provided a clear articulation of legal guidelines that could form the basis for a settlement. But the political and legal obstacles remain formidable, as does the wide gulf between the government and the company, based in Redmond, Wash. 
After Thursday's decision, some state attorneys general said that a court should still consider breaking up Microsoft, while Microsoft executives said that the decision had so changed the state of play that they would no longer be willing to offer some of the concessions that they had accepted during the settlement talks that failed last year.
Part of the difficulty in handicapping the likelihood of a settlement is the murkiness surrounding which Bush administration officials will play the leading roles in determining whether to continue the litigation or settle. 
During the Clinton administration, senior Justice Department and White House officials left the biggest decisions to Joel I. Klein, the head of the antitrust division, who had served early in the administration as a White House deputy counsel. Mr. Klein had the confidence of President Bill Clinton and was left alone by Attorney General Janet Reno in the prior round of settlement talks.
The new head of the antitrust division, Charles A. James, has been in office for barely two weeks and has had little time to establish the type of relationship with President Bush or Attorney General John Ashcroft that Mr. Klein enjoyed with Mr. Clinton and Ms. Reno. 
It was a sign of his status as the newcomer to the case that after the appeals court decision was announced on Thursday, Mr. James issued a brief statement, took no questions and left it to his staff to conduct a background briefing session with reporters. The appeals court decision provides the first test of whether he or other senior Justice Department officials will emerge to control the outcome of the case.
With no one in the government in clear control of a policy toward Microsoft, the company and AOL Time Warner, along with their surrogates, have been fiercely campaigning in Congress and before regulators in a largely behind-the-scenes battle over Microsoft's new operating system, Windows XP. But the campaigns have been closely related to the antitrust lawsuit, with both sides employing large teams of prominent law firms and lobbyists in the hopes of putting pressure on the Justice Department and state officials.
"The amount of lobbying and campaign contributions have skyrocketed in recent years, and will be increasing in leaps and bounds over the next few months as both sides pound each other hard and try to establish as many close relations with officials as they can," said Steven Weiss, a spokesman for the Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan organization that examines the influence of money in politics.
In the last four years, Microsoft has catapulted its political activities from a tiny Washington operation to one of the most formidable lobbying and legal powerhouses in town. In the last two-year election cycle, the company and its employees were the fifth-largest political donors in the nation, giving some $4.66 million, according to the Center for Responsive Politics, and another $12 million to lobbyists. By contrast, when the case began seven years ago, the company and its senior executives had given a total of $10,000 to the two political parties and $33,000 to federal candidates and had one lobbyist on the company payroll.
Microsoft and its allies have hired a virtual dream team of lobbyists. They have included Haley Barbour, the former chairman of the Republican National Committee; Tom Downey, the former Democratic congressman from Long Island; Vin Webber, the former Republican congressman from Minnesota; Jack Quinn, the former White House counsel; Slade Gorton, the former senator from Washington; C. Boyden Gray, the White House counsel to former President George Bush and his law partner, Lloyd N. Cutler, a counsel to former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Clinton; and Ralph Reed, the former executive director of the Christian Coalition and an adviser to President Bush.
On the other side, AOL Time Warner (which owns Netscape, the rival browser to Microsoft's Internet Explorer, and offers a number of other competing products and services) and its allies have spent comparable amounts and retained a list of luminaries. In the appeals case alone, the opponents of Microsoft retained three former United States solicitors general of widely different ideological stripes -- Walter E. Dellinger III, Robert H. Bork and Kenneth W. Starr -- and their large law firms to put pressure on the government to continue the lawsuit.
In the last election cycle, AOL and its executives contributed nearly $2 million to federal campaigns and millions more in lobbying. Other Microsoft competitors have contributed nearly as much in political donations, evening the political matchup.
For all the efforts at perpetuating the litigation, legal experts said that the outlines of a potential settlement were now clear in light of the appeals decision, although there were some large political and legal roadblocks confronting Microsoft.
"The appeals court decision provides a clear road map for how to settle this case," said Robert E. Litan, a former top official in the antitrust division during the Clinton administration who is now a vice president and director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution. "You can go paragraph by paragraph and say, 'This is the problem, here's how to fix it.' "
Mr. Litan said that the Justice Department typically structured settlements in two parts. The first part seeks to correct past misconduct and the second part tries to "fence in" a defendant from future anticompetitive behavior.
On the first part, he said, the appeals opinion provides straightforward guidelines. The court, for instance, found that numerous licensing restrictions and agreements violated Section 2 of the Sherman Act, suggesting that a proper remedy would prohibit Microsoft from entering into such agreements in the future.
Far more difficult to resolve in a settlement would be the court's finding that the commingling of software code between Microsoft's operating system and its Web browser software violated the Sherman Act by maintaining a monopoly. The company is preparing to introduce a new operating system, Windows XP, that it has announced will commingle many kinds of new applications with the operating system.
While Mr. Litan said it would be relatively easy to draw up a settlement that "fences Microsoft in from future violations," some state prosecutors have expressed concerns that Windows XP, which is to be marketed formally in October, creates a new set of legal problems by welding a variety of new applications, like video and audio player programs, into the operating system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); APPEALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); DEREGULATION (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%) COURTS AND JUDGES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS 

COMPANY: AOL INC (93%); MICROSOFT CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP (MSFT) 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (93%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (93%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2001 

 
