

401 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Sports of the Times;
Newt Should Put Baseball on His List

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY 

 BODY:
THANK goodness the hockey lockout is over. Now we can turn our full attention to something truly atrocious, the baseball strike. At least when the hockey owners took a hostage, it was their own commissioner. Gary Bettman was forced to fend off the union and a band of rogue owners at the same time.
At least the hockey owners had the ultimate sanity to preserve their heritage even if they did not achieve this panacea called the salary cap. As Neil Smith, the greatly relieved general manager of the Rangers, put it: "I kept seeing 'No Decision' on the Stanley Cup for 1995. We could have lost some franchises. Players could have formed their own leagues. It would never have been the same." 
 Everybody in hockey stopped just short of that disaster. I'm not sure the baseball owners and players love their game that much. They were willing to collaborate on a strike that killed the World Series for the first time since 1904. Wonder how the baseball owners feel now that the hockey owners decided they could live without this wonderful salary cap?
The baseball owners are holding their own hostage -- the antitrust laws of the United States of America. They've had that one stuffed in the trunk of their car for decades. This is a case for Newt Gingrich. While examining many other practices of government, the new Speaker of the House is hereby urged to reverse baseball's antitrust exemption, granted in a moment of sentimental folly by the Supreme Court all the way back in 1922.
Because they can operate like a single unit instead of competing companies, the baseball owners can threaten to bring in replacement players to spring training. John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox and other owners must be laughing at baseball fans, as if they cannot tell the difference between a major league player and a scab.
George Steinbrenner must be laughing at Yankee fans, too. Just the other day I saw an advertisement for something called The Fifth Annual Fan Festival, run by the New York Yankees Foundation Inc., to be held at a time and place I will not disclose out of disgust.
Fans are expected to pay $35 to see Babe Ruth memorabilia, get autographs from former Yankees and attend "daily instructional clinics by the manager," who happens to be heartsick over the prospect of managing abject nonentities the owner will drag out of unemployment lines. The advertisement says some proceeds will go to charity. Not good enough. Baseball should just hide in disgrace until it has real players again.
Instead, these shameless moochers have gone to Washington to chat up Congressional leaders. The baseball owners saw the hockey owners lose bargaining power because most of the seven Canadian teams play in provinces with enlightened laws against replacement workers. The baseball owners know how much they rely on their long exemption from antitrust laws.
From what I read, the Gingrichites are not thrilled about government subsidies, starting with the arts and public television and radio. I say they've got the wrong priorities. The night Aaron Copland died in 1990, we were able to follow musical tributes to him as we drove north through the swamps of Georgia and South Carolina because of the interlocking FM stations of National Public Radio. How civilized.
Also, I keep hearing the new Republican majority plans to cut subsidies for rail travel. It should probably be doing the opposite -- making it easier to travel major corridors like Boston-Washington, Milwaukee-Chicago, San Francisco-Los Angeles rather than forcing us into horror shows like O'Hare Airport or Interstate-95 around Washington at rush hour.
My personal philosophy is that the best governments have always supported arts and public services -- the works of Mozart and Goya and the delightfully functional rail stations of Europe are all a result of government subsidy.
If the Newtites really want to find predators willfully slurping from the government trough, they should take a look at baseball owners. These freeloaders exist on tax breaks and public stadiums and civic improvements, like the ones Steinbrenner is trying to squeeze out of New York. The most blatant scam is the antitrust exemption. Sometimes symbols are important. Take that away, and you might have real baseball next spring, not scab ball. Talk about a "contract with America."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fate of baseball's antitrust exemption may be in the hands of Speaker Newt Gingrich and other Congressional leaders. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK YANKEES FOUNDATION INC (62%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); NEW YORK RANGERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS BASEBALL (95%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (93%); LOCKOUTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); CHARITIES (86%); SPORTS FANS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); STRIKES (78%); ICE HOCKEY (78%); LEGISLATION (71%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); 

PERSON: VECSEY, GEORGE; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER) NEWT GINGRICH (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



402 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Settlement Didn't Put Players in Penalty Box

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON 

DATELINE: WEST ORANGE, N.J.

 BODY:
THE forecast was for snow, and Bob Carpenter cringed at the thought of being marooned. He didn't want to be late reporting to work for the National Hockey League team owned by John McMullen, who locked him out more than three months and was apparently ready, at one point last weekend, to close him down.
It was Tuesday up on Lake Winnipesaukee, N.H., where Carpenter lives, where he spent most of the lockout with his wife, Julie, and their 6-month old daughter, Alexandra. Carpenter did some fishing in the fall. He occasionally drove south to work out with some Boston Bruins. Mostly, he waited for the season to begin. 
 "I never really thought it wouldn't," he said. Why? He said, of the owners: "They'd have risked losing their league."
Carpenter was sitting inside the locker room at the Devils' practice site, a charming little venue called South Mountain Arena. In Manhattan, the league and the union were announcing player ratification of the new collective bargaining agreement. Carpenter was explaining how, upon hearing the forecast Tuesday afternoon, he packed up his family and headed south, to make sure he wouldn't miss the dropping of the first practice puck.
This would be his 14th season, and no matter how many times he repeats the experience, the start is always thrilling. This season, a 48-game sprint, would be no different, and no owner, not even the hawkish McMullen, could scratch that from the deal.
"I don't think you should ever feel like you are playing for him," Carpenter said. "The bottom line is that you are here to make a living playing the game you love."
Make a living. Interesting concept. From most of the settlement reports, you would think the players will now pay tuition, room and board to play in the N.H.L. You got the idea that Gary Bettman had taken a hatchet to Bob Goodenow, and union blood was everywhere.
Sports critics, you should understand, prefer decisive endings, heroes and goats clearly defined, with the future foreseen like five-day weather. No unrestricted free agency until 32! A disgrace, the critics roared, ignoring the fact that unrestricted free agency has been as prevalent in the N.H.L. as fight-free hockey.
Yes, there were serious concessions, like the rookie cap, but let's not kid ourselves. The overwhelming majority of hockey players are not exactly burning up the gossip columns. Sport of the Nineties? Not yet. Not until you, the average sports fan, can name one Ottawa Senator. One Winnipeg Jet. One Quebec Nordique. One Mighty Duck.
There's got to be some context here. Given the record of American unions over the last 15 years, the conservative political climate, baseball's current agenda, it could have been worse. There are a few newspaper unions it has been much worse for lately. Hockey has no salary cap, or payroll tax. There is nothing to prevent the Rangers, for one, from devising inflationary offers to discourage poorer teams from matching on restricted free agents. There is nothing to keep them from spending $9 million more than the Devils, as McMullen has charged, for one more goal.
The truth is, these collective bargaining deals are so complex, each piece interwoven, the full effect can't possibly be determined now. And if it was so one-sided, such a player blood bath, why would the majority of owners have needed their shirts pulled over their heads by Bettman before they agreed to it?
An economic expert from M.I.T. advised the union that it must avoid the cap, or tax, that it could live with the concessions it made. Who should the union believe, Carpenter wanted to know, professionals or sportswriters?
"Let's be honest, if any of us really understood all this, we'd have been business majors, not hockey players," he said.
He is 31 years old, a hockey eternity from the goal-scoring prodigy who burst into Washington back in 1981. He has never drunk from the Stanley Cup. He mourned the summer of 1990, when the favored Bruins lost in the finals to Edmonton. Carpenter made the Devils on a tryout last season, took a ride all the way to Game 7 of the Stanley Cup semifinals, where the Devils came up a goal short.
"The Rangers had the best players," Carpenter said. "I think we had the better team."
That team, he said, must now stay together. Every player, whatever his personal stake, must put the owner out of his mind, must unite behind Coach Jacques Lemaire.
"The years we lost in Boston, we knew that was it, that the team would change," he said. "Here, we've stayed the same. We're together a year under the system. We'll be better, good enough to win.
Carpenter began to undress, unlacing a pair of red Chuck Taylor Converse high tops.
"Cool sneakers," he was told.
He smiled. "Still prefer the skates," he said. "It's winter, time to play hockey."
Time to forget the forecasts that call for the players to be buried alive. Sometimes, even in New Hampshire, they predict a blizzard and get snow that doesn't even stick.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY DEVILS EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); BOSTON BRUINS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS EDMONTON OILERS (84%); DALLAS STARS (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); EDMONTON OILERS (84%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (84%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (83%); BOSTON BRUINS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); MANITOBA, CANADA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOCKEY, ICE; COLLECTIVE BARGAINING WINTER SPORTS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ICE HOCKEY (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (87%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); LOCKOUTS (76%); SPORTS FANS (72%); BASEBALL (72%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); TUITION FEES (50%); 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY; CARPENTER, BOB BOB CARPENTER (96%); JOHN MCMULLEN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



403 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: PASSING THE BUCK;
Global Congress? Not in Congress.

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
CALL it a sign of the times.
Years ago, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee was the most prestigious panel on Capitol Hill; Presidents courted its chairmen and senators with presidential aspirations maneuvered for years, even decades, to get a seat. 
 But after last November's election, the rush was away from the committee; the Senate Majority Leader, Bob Dole himself, had to step in and twist the arms of four Republican freshmen to fill vacant seats.
The decline of the committee as a forum for airing deep thoughts and challenging White House policy began some years ago, but it has accelerated since the Republicans captured Congress in November.
For one thing, few senators from the Republican majority want to tangle (or even serve) with the new chairman, Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolinian with an exceedingly conservative agenda of his own.
But a more fundamental reason is that foreign policy in the new Republican Congress is being shaped more by financial pressures at home and a scarcity of money for projects abroad than by lofty notions of statecraft and geopolitics.
Mitch McConnell, the new chairman of the powerful Senate subcommittee responsible for foreign aid, abandoned the Foreign Relations Committee for the Appropriations Committee two years ago. "The difference between us and them is we're shooting with real bullets," he explained. "We spend the real money."
More to the point, they decide what projects not to fund.
The Kentucky senator has already introduced a sweeping foreign aid bill that would slash foreign aid by 20 percent and abolish three cold war creations -- the agencies that administer foreign aid, monitor arms control developments and disseminate information about the United States to the rest of the globe.
In other words, the real action in Congress these days is not in crafting a larger global vision to rival that of the White House. So many of the Republicans who are taking the legislative reins seem to be saying: Why bother?
This approach dovetails with a traditional Republican view: that members of Congress should not challenge the President's constitutional power to make foreign policy. But with this President, it goes further: They seem to feel they don't have to.
As the maiden witness before the newly named House International Relations Committee last week, James A. Baker 3d, President Bush's Secretary of State, advised his audience to resist the temptation "to give as good as we got" when the Republicans controlled the White House and the Democrats controlled the Congress. Instead, he laid out a sweeping strategy for avoiding policy debates while exerting control over the bureaucracy:
 
Back the President
 "The United States of America has an obligation to lead internationally, and we can only lead internationally, effectively, if we understand that the President has the primary responsibility for the conduct of the nation's foreign policy. Attempts at Congressional micromanagement of foreign policy were a bad idea when the Democrats were in control, and they remain a bad idea today." Republicans, he said, should work with the Democratic Administration, overhaul the foreign policy bureaucracy and use their own legislative authority better. What he did not need to say is that such a strategy would leave the Presidency's authority over foreign policy intact should a Republican -- perhaps even Mr. Baker himself -- win the White House in 1996.
Another reason for the Republican lack of interest in policy debates these days is the painful memory of George Bush's misguided strategy in the 1992 campaign: his foreign policy successes simply did not resonate the way Bill Clinton's focus on the domestic economy did. Finally, argues Jeremy Rossner, the author of a forthcoming study of Congress and foreign policy, "the Republicans as a party have done no better than the Democrats at making order out of the confusion of the post-Cold War era."
Take the House Republicans' "Contract with America." Although it offers a thorough housecleaning of the budget and welfare, foreign policy gets only a light dusting -- commitments to protect American soldiers from being put under United Nations command and to rebuild America's defense establishment.
That makes it easier for individual Republicans to take their own positions on issues if they want.
The foreign policy agenda announced by the Senate Majority leader, Bob Dole, on the Senate floor two weeks ago amounted to two unrelated items of particular interest to him: giving the President more authority to make war but limiting his ability to deploy peacekeepers, and lifting the international arms embargo on Bosnia.
And, without a party line, Republicans have the freedom to change their minds. Senator Frank Murkowski of Alaska, for example, criticized the nuclear accord with North Korea as giving away too much to an untrustworthy Communist regime -- until he took a trip there and came back arguing that it may not be such a bad deal for the United States after all.
"It's the flip side of where we were in 1980, when almost every major Republican leader was in lockstep with the Democrats and agreed with what Jimmy Carter was doing," said Michael Beschloss, a historian who has written on the Presidency. "But in 1995 you have a lot of people engaged in individual issues for almost quirky reasons, and no overall pattern that united them into a consistent critique of the Clinton foreign policy."
 
Cold War Redux
 That doesn't mean that there is no glue to hold much of the Republican Congress together on foreign policy. If you put the small snapshots together, an uneven landscape does emerge, with remarkable similarity to the kind of thinking that dominated the cold war. Republicans seem to want to maintain or increase defense spending, boost American leadership and emphasize traditional security interests.
That vision can be found in the House Republicans' resolution, released last week, which advocates inviting the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and Slovakia into NATO within five years as one way to revitalize national security. It can also be found in the "Contract with America's" proposals for defense spending, which would revive Ronald Reagan's vision of a Star Wars missile defense.
What isn't found are calls to spend more -- or even the same amount -- on what is sometimes called the global agenda: peacekeeping, population control, international environmental programs and refugee relief. If the experience of the last several years is any guide, financing such efforts might do as much to counter the real long-range threats to American security as would high-tech defense spending designed to shield America from Russia's waning military might -- or to fight two wars at the same time.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 1995, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Week in Review yesterday about foreign policy and the Republicans in Congress omitted several words in a statement by the historian Michael Beschloss, altering its meaning. Mr. Beschloss said that in 1980, almost every major Republican leader agreed with "the critique of what Jimmy Carter was doing." He did not say that the Republicans agreed with President Carter's foreign policy.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (97%); SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE (70%); WHITE HOUSE (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) REPUBLICAN CONGRESS (97%); SENATE FOREIGN RELATIONS COMMITTEE (70%); WHITE HOUSE (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



404 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 3833 words

HEADLINE: What's Up -- and What's Going Up

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, Costas Kondylis, one of the city's most employed, most pragmatic apartment tower architects, had 13 people working for him.
Today, he has 31.
A year ago, Edward Malloy, president of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, was "sitting around with my feet up on the desk looking out the window -- there was nothing going on." Nowadays, he said, he spends his time "a lot more optimistically; I talk a lot on the phone and I go to a lot more meetings with developers." 
 "It's really happening, isn't it?" said Musa Train Klebnikov, project development director for the Battery Park City Authority, which last month commissioned four developers to begin planning buildings for four vacant sites in the huge downtown Manhattan complex. "New York's really coming back."
In the razzmatazz ego-speak of the development community, a sudden burst of optimism doesn't always translate into steel and substance. But there are a number of residential projects that are just being completed -- and a spate of new ones back on the drawing boards of architects like Mr. Kondylis and Peter Claman, another of the city's prolific designers -- that lend credence to Ms. Klebnikov's observation.
Two weeks ago tenants began moving into the 19-story south building of the Brodsky Organization's two-building rental complex on the west side of West End Avenue between 61st and 64th Streets; shortly after, the last piece of chimney flue was set into place on top of the two 38-story towers of the north building.
Once called Manhattan West, but now newly named West End Towers, the 1,000-unit rental complex, 200 apartments of which will be reserved for tenants with limited incomes, is the first of two major Brodsky projects scheduled for completion in the next two years. The other is a 45-story retail and rental development between 58th and 59th Streets on the west side of Ninth Avenue, on a site formerly owned by St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
A little more than a week ago, another Upper West Side development team, Millennium Partners, celebrated the "topping off" -- bringing the concrete and steel to the roof -- of their second new building in the Lincoln Square area. Philip E. Aarons, one of the partners, said the 30-story building, bounded by Broadway and Columbus Avenue and 66th and 67th Streets, would open its sales office in April and be finished by the summer.
Called Lincoln Triangle, the second Millennium apartment building is to contain 143 unsubsidized, market-rate rental units; the first project, Lincoln Square, one block north, is still receiving its finishing touches. The 46-story Lincoln Square building, which includes a Sony Theaters multiplex, is almost fully occupied and is waiting for several retail tenants to move in. Mr. Aarons said that at least 60 of the building's 83 condominiums had been sold and that all of the 110 rental units had been spoken for.
Demolition on a third Millennium site nearby, at 1965 Broadway, is scheduled to start within the next 45 days. All five of the Upper West Side buildings have been designed by Mr. Claman's firm, Schuman Lichtenstein Claman Efron.
On the Upper East Side, at 92d Street and York Avenue, the Brittany, another new rental tower, still has construction elevators running up and down two sides of its glassy facades, with bare concrete still on the base, awaiting its limestone veneer. Designed by Mr. Kondylis, the 36-story building is expected to get its first tenants this spring.
All over Manhattan, modifications to previously approved permits and environmental-impact statements are being filed. Community groups are being sounded out. Money is being lined up -- typically not from the traditional source, the big banks, but from pension funds and other lenders. Applications for tax abatements available for partially subsidized rental buildings like West End Towers have been filed and developers are waiting to hear.
Developers spend much of their time waiting to hear -- from city and state agencies, lenders and community groups -- and major developments sometimes change dramatically, or vanish entirely. As Mr. Aarons of Millennium puts it: "There's a lot of pitfalls in any development: you can run into site problems, political problems, community problems, financing problems. Any one of them can slow down or stop a project -- and they're not always predictable."
Still, plans for already assembled sites that have been sitting fallow for years are being dusted off, either because the owners have decided that the economic situation is ripe or because new developers have bought or leased or somehow gained control of a site for a fraction of the previous asking price.
Brad Zackson, 34, chairman of the Dynamic Group, a new face among Manhattan developers, bought one property on Astor Place in Manhattan at a bankruptcy auction for $ 6.3 million. He bought another in Brooklyn for less than 10 percent of the once-outstanding bank loans, said Carolyn Schlam, an associate of Mr. Zackson.
Mr. Zackson's Brooklyn site, Kings Bay Landing, near Bensonhurst, a few miles south of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, had been taken over by the Chase Manhattan Bank in 1989, Ms. Schlam said.
At that time, she said, more than $ 20 million in loans were outstanding on the waterfront condominium development, for which 60 apartments had been readied in two new buildings. "The brochures were ready to go out," Ms. Schlam said, "but the original developer hit the bad market."
By the time Dynamic became interested, the bank was asking $ 4 million, Ms. Schlam said. "We purchased it this year for under $ 2 million," she said, adding that Dynamic wanted to fix up and upgrade the buildings already built, complete the pool and boat slips and start marketing this spring. Once those units are sold, the developer plans to build a third apartment building, 40 new town houses and a health club.
The saga of the Brooklyn site is typical of the kind of aggressive negotiating now going on. But it is unusual because of its location -- Brooklyn -- and its condominium configuration. Most of the new residential development is in rental apartments, and it is happening primarily in Manhattan, where the rents are considered high enough to justify the high cost of building.
To many real-estate professionals, a high demand for rental units is the force behind the resurgence of construction planning. Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York, said there was now only a 1 percent rental vacancy rate in Manhattan for regulated and unregulated apartments.
But it is not only the demand. Other factors include the existence of already assembled parcels and the availability of government-guaranteed construction bonds, as well as a handsome 20-year city property-tax abatement available to developers willing to devote 20 percent of their total project to subsidized tenants, in what the trade calls "80-20" housing. These, linked with what until recently were among the lowest interest rates in years, added up to the "go" signal for developers who have the resources and the credit to come back into the market.
In addition, many developers and investors said they were more optimistic about the fates of their projects as they move through the city bureaucracy because of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's perceived "pro-development" stance.
While recently rising interest rates are obviously a dispiriting factor, some developers and those following the development scene say higher rates will halt the trend only if they keep going up. "It's my guess that unless interest rates go sky high, the building -- especially of rental units -- will continue," said Paul D. Selver, one of the best-known zoning lawyers within the development community.
Jules Demchick, a partner in J. D. Carlisle Development Company, said: "The interest rates aren't as much of a problem as people think. You can pay down the interest rate; you can get a lower interest rate by putting in more of your own money. There are ways to get around it."
Some developers might be able to do that, and others won't. The sins of the late 1980's, when prominent developers were forced to give properties back to the banks, and the banks were stung into their recent lending paralysis, are tough to live down. "For some people, the banks want 50 percent down," said Daniel Brodsky, "and that makes it very, very difficult." As a consequence, most developers say, there is almost no development money coming from the banks.
But there is money from other sources. Donald Trump, who formed a joint venture with the General Electric Pension Trust and the Galbreath Company for a $ 250 million renovation of the former Gulf & Western Building on Columbus Circle, said last week that he had the choice of using G.E.'s huge credit subsidiary for financing or going to another "private institution." He said the joint venture would decide in the next two weeks how to finance what will become Trump International Tower and Hotel.
Mr. Zackson said he had the backing of "mainland China and Asian investors" to do his total rehabilitation of the distinctive brick trapezoidal former United Auto Workers headquarters at 21 Astor Place, between Broadway and Lafayette Street, the property he purchased at a bankruptcy auction last January. And Mr. Trump's affiliation with several well-respected Hong Kong investment groups for his huge Riverside South project has been well-publicized.
On the Upper East Side, Ian Bruce Eichner, a developer known for some of the most publicized development difficulties in the 80's -- his Cityspire building on West 56th Street and what is now the Bertelsmann Building at 1540 Broadway were involved in bankruptcy procedings -- said he had the backing of Union Labor Life Insurance Company for his condominium apartment building at 80th Street and Third Avenue.
Mr. Eichner also said he had another asset for a developer these days: a committed retail tenant, preferably one of the chain superstores. A glossy sign has been wrapped around the construction fence in front of Mr. Eichner's building, a former storage warehouse, announcing the imminent arrival of a Toys "R" Us.
But while Mr. Eichner expressed total optimism about the project -- he said the site had been purchased and the toy store had paid more than 50 percent of the cost of the site for its three-floor condo section -- other observers are less sanguine. There have been reports that the relationship between Toys "R" Us and the developer has soured, and that the financial backers are nervous -- reports both Mr. Eichner and Toys "R" Us deny.
Michael Freitag, a spokesman for the chain, said that there had been "minor difficulties with the neighborhood" but that he expected the store to open this fall, as scheduled.
Mr. Freitag was referring to a community group, calling itself "Neighbors 'R' Us," that has filed a complaint against the toy store with the city's Board of Standards and Appeals. The complaint argues that a grandfather clause allowing further commercial use of the ground floors of the former storage warehouse has elapsed, making such use illegal.
In addition, to build the tower "as of right" -- that is, without any special permits or variances -- Mr. Eichner's architect, Mr. Claman, must devise a plan to "core" the building: turn the inside 16 stories into 22 stories. It is a feat the architect himself called "very, very difficult.".
For these reasons, Mr. Eichner's project, despite its superstore partner, its financial backers and its location, is generally classified by real-estate professionals as a "wild card" in today's development picture; it may happen as planned and it may not.
These are the projects generally considered by other developers and those involved in development circles to be "go" projects, either because work has already begun or is expected to begin in 1995:
Trump International Hotel and Tower: When the tenants' leases expire at the end of April, a high-tech $ 250 million revamping of the whole building will start, with the notoriously swaying structure to be made more rigid by the addition of new columns and trusses and a gold-colored curtain wall applied on the outside.
Philip Johnson, the architect for the exterior conversion, said Mr. Trump "won on the gold color, but it's really not a garish gold; it's much warmer than black." The project is to have 167 hotel suites and 166 condominium apartments.
1965 Broadway, between 66th and 67th Streets: Mr. Aarons said that demolition of the old five-story building on this third Millennium Partners site, which is just across Broadway from Lincoln Triangle and is the current home of the Tower Records and Tower Video stores, would begin in 30 to 45 days. Construction of a new 27-story building will begin in three months, he said. There are to be 325 units in an as-yet-undecided combination of rentals, condominiums and "approximately 100 one-bedroom suites for long-term-stay/hotel occupancy," Mr. Aarons said. A new, larger, Tower Record and Video store is to occupy the street-level retail space, he said; during construction, Tower is moving to Broadway and 73d Street, in the Ansonia Hotel.
300 East 64th Street, at the southeast corner of Second Avenue: A 26-story, 100-unit rental building is to be built by Davis & Partners, along with a New York subsidiary of Rosen Development of Frankfurt, Germany. In order to build a taller building than zoning would have allowed, the partners bought air rights from the neighboring movie theater.
306 East 72d Street: Eighty-two large condominium units are planned in a 21-story building, to be built by the Jack Parker Organization, reportedly with conventional financing. Demolition has been completed and the excavation has started.
South side of Union Square, between 13th and 14th Streets and Broadway and Fourth Avenue: Within the last month, Stephen M. Ross of the Related Companies signed a contract to purchase the last holdout on the site, where he wants to build 300,000 square feet of retail space with 250 rental apartments above. Mr. Ross said he would start construction on the 22-story building by "midsummer" after obtaining regular bank financing. He is reportedly trying to interest retail tenants like Caldor, Sports Authority and Virgin Records.
21 Astor Place: Mr. Zackson's auction purchase is a prominent 1908 trapezoidal brick building that is to become 71 loft condominiums, priced from $ 300,000 to $ 1 million. Interior demolition has already begun. Downstairs, Mr. Zackson's Dynamic Realty has already signed leases with the Starbucks Coffee and Kinko's Copy chains. Ms. Schlam said the leases totaled $ 700,000 a year, "and that takes a lot of the risk out."
100 Jane Street: A nine-story low-rise, with 148 rental units, 20 percent of them for subsidized low- and middle-income tenants, is to be developed by Rockrose, a continuation of that developer's rebuilding of what was once a no-man's land between the West Village and the meat-market district. While Rockrose waits for the final phase of approvals from the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development necessary to begin the Jane Street project, the developer has opened its renting office at its rehabilitated Plaza East, at 340 East 34th Street.
K. Thomas Elghanayan, president of Rockrose, said that in the case of the rehabilitation of Plaza East's 201 apartments, with rents ranging from $ 1,100 to $ 2,000 a month, the company put up $ 5 million of its own money and persuaded New York University, which owned the property, to assume $ 12.5 million of debt at 7 percent interest.
Northwest corner of Elizabeth and Houston Streets: A vacant site is to be developed into 195 units of rental housing by Donald Zucker. Mr. Zucker will get a 20-year 421A tax abatement without including any low- or moderate-income housing because this location in NoHo is just outside the 80-20 mandate's boundaries. Mr. Zucker said he had his foundation permit, approved plans and a mortgage commitment for the 12-story building.
There are also several projects that are expected to start in 1996, although an earlier starting date is possible in some cases.
The Battery Park City Authority is developing its own Site 22, just south of Stuyvesant High School at the corner of Chambers and West Streets. The project will include 200 market-rate units of family-oriented housing -- two- and three-bedroom apartments -- in a massive 22-story building to be designed by Mr. Kondylis that will also contain a K-8 school. Matthew Monahan, an authority spokesman, said this project was "at least eight or nine months" ahead of three other housing developments in the north end of the complex, which have been awarded to Rockrose, Related and the Gotham Organization (with E. T. Marshall).
Those other developments are expected to be under construction within two years and bring 1,000 more units of 80-20 rentals to the city.
The Brodsky Organization and a development partner, Robert Quinlan, have bought air rights over the landmark St. Jean Baptiste Roman Catholic Church on 76th Street between Lexington and Third Avenues. The convent has already been taken down and the existing rectory has been renovated to include the convent. Designed by Hugh Hardy, of Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, with Mr. Claman, the new 31-story condominium tower has already received Landmarks Preservation Commission approval and was presented to the local community board last week.
The east side of Amsterdam Avenue between 89th and 90th Street, known as the last urban renewal site in the city and now a community garden, was formally awarded more than a decade ago to the Related Companies, which plans to build 263 units of 80-20 rental housing. Last week Mr. Ross said he had not "nailed down" the site by coming up with the necessary financing, but expected to have the money ready in time to begin the 18-story building this spring.
There are also several projects with less predictable prospects. If legal or bureaucratic hurdles can be cleared on these sites, it is generally thought money could be obtained and work could proceed this year or next.
A Related Companies site at the southeast corner of 84th Street and First Avenue is at the center of a lawsuit filed by the East 84th Street Neighborhood Association and Civitas, a civic advocacy group.
The suit, which has halted the project, was lodged against the city's Board of Standards and Appeals for its decision to grant Mr. Ross's group a hardship variance to build a taller building than allowed by zoning regulations passed last year. The variance was granted because Related said the foundation was finished before the deadline after which the new architectural requirements went into effect -- a contention the community groups dispute.
The case is currently before the New York State Court of Appeals, and a decision is expected within three months. Mr. Ross contends he should be allowed to build 43 stories; if he loses the suit, he would only be able to build 30 "as of right."
The east side of the Avenue of the Americas, between 22d and 23d Streets, holds a parking lot that until two years ago had a weathered sign announcing the arrival of the New York Health and Racquet Club. Plans had long been dormant, but the site is once again active. Michelle de Milly, spokeswoman for the Manocherian family, which owns the lot and founded the health club, said that plans had been newly drawn and revised several times by Mr. Kondylis.
She said the proposal -- which shows a fat, prewar-looking 22-story building with rounded corners and a dome -- was scheduled to go before a public hearing at the city's Landmarks Commission "in February or March." The plan, she said, calls for 300 to 350 units, "probably rental.". Providing further details would be premature, she said, because community groups and commissions would be reviewing the project.
A zoning-map change for the site, allowing residential use, would be needed.
A long-vacant site between 41st and 42d Streets and 11th and 12th Avenues may finally be developed as 1,800 rental units in two high-rise buildings. Last week, Larry A. Silverstein, the developer, said he expected to "get a shovel in the ground" by the end of this year. Others involved in the project said the City Planning Commission was in the process of reviewing it.
The project labeled by a participant as "the biggest imponderable of them all" is the 5,700-unit Riverside South development along the Hudson River between 59th and 72d Streets. Philip Johnson is working on the exterior and Mr. Kondylis the interiors of the first four buildings, which are planned to resemble nothing so much as Central Park West pre-war apartment buildings.
"This is what the local people want and what they're getting," Mr. Johnson said. "They didn't want transparent buildings; they didn't want glass monsters." Mr. Trump, the original developer, sold 50 percent of the project to the New World Development Company and a large consortium in Hong Kong, which reportedly is to invest $ 2.5 billion. Mr. Trump said the first four buildings -- the tallest 40 stories -- with 1,600 rental units in the 80-20 program, would start to rise "within 10 months" from 65th to 69th Streets. Others in the industry, viewing the immensity of the project and the bureaucratic and financial hurdles remaining, are less certain.
Then there are the sites that no one will talk about; sites that are not yet nailed down, in development parlance, but are once again the focus of negotiations. At least two development teams are known to be competing for the site of the old Alexander's department store across from Bloomingdale's bounded by 58th and 59th Streets and Lexington and Third Avenues. Two more feel they have the inside track on a plot between 38th and 39th Street near the Queens-Midtown Tunnel.
Then there is the old Evyan perfume factory on the west side of First Avenue between 34th and 35th Streets. And there are valuable sites along Second Avenue in the 60's, several owned by local hospitals.
Even the developers occasionally have trouble keeping track of every deal, of every negotiation, of every boast. Steve Ross contends that real estate in New York City "is a very local game" that isn't easily picked up by neophytes and investors from other countries. Despite all the foreign investment in the past decade, Mr. Ross maintains that "almost all the foreigners who invested in new development here have been burned."
"They saw it as a glamour investment," he said, "and now they're very sorry." He said the foreign money now is headed for "Australia and different parts of the world, where it's a lot easier."
Peter Claman, who has been an architect in New York City since the 1950's, describes the development scene as a "poker game."
"But that's O.K.," he said, "because I've been playing it a very long time."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about new residential construction in New York included an outdated description of the method being used to strengthen the former Gulf and Western Building. In renovating it for use as a condominium and hotel, builders plan to erect a concrete wall rising through the center of the building to the 33d floor. An earlier plan, to reinforce the building with a series of columns and trusses, has been abandoned.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip Johnson with model of Riverside South. Speaking of the West Side community's design desires, he said: "They didn't want glass monsters." (Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 8); Trump International Tower and Hotel -- A gold-colored curtain wall will enclose what was once the Gulf & Western Building. (Luis Blanc); 1965 Broadway -- The 27-story building between 66th and 67th Streets will be Millennium Partners' third in the area. (Schuman, Lichtenstein); Union Square South -- The Related Companies plans to build 250 apartments above 300,000 square feet of retail space. (Sans Hung/Schuman, Lichtenstein); 186 East 76th St. -- A 31-story condominium is to replace the St. Jean Baptiste convent, using air rights from the church. (Schuman, Lichtenstein); West End Towers -- Tenants have begun moving into West End Towers, which will have 1,000 apartments when completed. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 
Map/chart: "In The Pipeline" shows major residential developments in Manhattan that are now under way or well-advanced in planning. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (54%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BRODSKY ORGANIZATION (54%); MILLENNIUM PARTNERS (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; APARTMENT HOUSES REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); MILLENNIUM (60%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE EDWARD ALOYSIUS MALLOY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



405 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3069 words

HEADLINE: Governor Get-a-Job;
Tommy Thompson

BYLINE: By NORMAN ATKINS; Norman Atkins writes for Family Life and other magazines.

 BODY:
TWO YEARS AND YOU'RE OUT. THE words stand poised at the top of Gov. Tommy Thompson's trachea and march forth like a battle cry in his war on welfare. As career criminals are supposed to cower under the threat of "Three strikes and you're out!" so "recidivist" welfare mothers are meant to hear Thompson's slogan and shake a leg. The phrase is the core of the Republican Governor's "Work Not Welfare" experiment, which as of Jan. 1 put a 24-month limit on cash benefits through Aid to Families With Dependent Children.
Nobody has a clue to how many families will beat the clock or what will happen if they don't, but Wisconsinites appear downright ecstatic about Thompson's two-county test run, small scale though it is. Three-quarters of those polled support it, and last November a whopping 67 percent of the voters swept him into a third term. His eight-year war on welfare has given the G.O.P. a viable organizing principle in the post-Communist world; now Newt Gingrich and his counterrevolutionary forces have finally caught up with Tommy Thompson. "Tommy's a real hoss," says Haley Barbour, chairman of the Republican National Committee. "He's the leader of the country and the Republican pathfinder on welfare reform." 
 Thompson used to complain about going "to Washington on bended knee to kiss somebody's pinkie ring" to get dispensation for his unorthodox welfare experiments. Now with the G.O.P. in control of Congress, he exults in arriving there with "live ammunition, shootin' at real targets." Republican Congressmen seek his input and blessing on their proposals. But in their frenzy to see who can cut benefits faster, Thompson sounds downright moderate in comparison. He cautions that welfare reform will create no savings in the short run; they shudder when he argues that reform may cost even more up front, to pay for services like day care and job training. With his new status and his forum as the next chairman of the National Governors' Association, he's busy promoting no-strings-attached block grants to the states. His share would presumably go toward expansion of "two years and you're out" statewide.
Welcome to the wacky world of Wisconsin politics. At the start of the 20th century, Robert La Follette built the Progressive movement, trying to bust rapacious capitalist monopolies. Mid-century, Joe McCarthy created a witch hunt to root out secret Communists. Now, at the end of the century, Thompson has upended the state's political culture by targeting welfare moms. State Democrats played into his hands in late 1993 by calling for the termination of the welfare program in Wisconsin by 1999. Many believe it was a political stunt designed to embarrass the Governor by forcing him to veto the end of welfare. But Thompson says he looked at that bill on his desk as a "gift, the greatest opportunity in the world." He signed away. "It's time to cut the umbilical cord."
THOMPSON IS AN UNPOLISHED ORATOR, THE LETTER G asleep at the end of his gerunds. He doesn't deliver speeches so much as conduct pep rallies, grabbing credit for all good news occurring during his tenure: welfare rolls dropped 19 percent in Wisconsin while climbing 32 percent nationally; the state has seen a net increase of 382,000 jobs, and the University of Wisconsin won the Rose Bowl last year, as he guaranteed. His foes believe that Thompson has benefited from a streak of Forrest Gump-like luck: Wisconsin was recovering from a wrenching recession before his election; rapid job growth is largely responsible for the welfare decline, and Barry Alvarez is a mighty fine football coach. But in his next four years, the Governor promises more jobs, fewer welfare recipients and a Super Bowl victory for the Green Bay Packers.
Tommy G. Thompson, incorrigible optimist, was born in 1941 in Elroy, a poky midpoint for trains roaring from Chicago to the Twin Cities. His mother's kin migrated here during Ireland's potato famine to avail themselves of one of the most generous public-assistance programs in United States history, the Homestead Act of 1862, which gave settlers 160 acres of land for a song. Thompson still owns a piece of the property, though he seems eager to sell. ("Wanna buy a farm?" he asks.) His mother's father, a La Follette socialist, organized a farmers' union. Although Thompson was raised a Catholic under his mother's wing and insists that his grandfather's compassion for the downtrodden courses through his veins, his values were largely inculcated by his father, an exacting taskmaster of English and German stock. When, at the tender age of 4, Tommy asked for a tricycle, his father introduced him to a concept that would become the quiddity of his welfare philosophy: no more something for nothing. The elder Thompson, a grocer, handed Tommy a piece of sandpaper and set him to work at 25 cents an hour scraping chicken droppings off the eggs that poor farmers had swapped for food. "I had to pay for everything myself," Thompson recalls. "But he always gave me the opportunity to work for what I needed."
In the 60's, earning undergraduate and law degrees at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, Thompson rebelled against campus liberalism and soaked up Barry Goldwater's "Conscience of a Conservative." He started out shy, but "I pushed myself to be outgoing like my father because I realized that bein' bashful was a deficit." He emerged as a gregarious bartender and hearty partier. His conversion to extroversion culminated, recalls his former roommate, Richard Wright, in approaching total strangers with an extended right hand. "I'm Tommy Thompson," he'd say, "and I appreciate your vote and support." Says Wright: "It was a joke, a way to meet people. Tommy wasn't really running for anything."
Thompson's mitts are like a bear's, and they wrap around whole arms and necks and backs. (When I first met the Governor, he pressed his palms into my shoulders and practically lifted me, Herman Munster-like, into the air.) In 1966, Tommy put his hand-shaking to good use. He bought a '59 celery green Ford for $100, drove down every dirt road in his legislative district, glad-handed in 80 percent of the homes and got himself elected to the Assembly, where he would stay for two decades.
Thompson missed most every vote in his first session, doing National Guard duty down in Texas. In 1968, he married Sue Ann Mashak, a teacher who had come to Madison to lobby for higher salaries. They have three children. Still a teacher, she is on medical leave for breast-cancer surgery. They continue to argue over the teachers' union. Thompson's deep antipathy for it was forged in his early Assembly days, when he fell in with a cadre of tightwads whose mission was to prevent the growth of government on the taxpayers' dime. At a time when Madison was a seedbed of radicalism, recalls Thompson, "We had a thumb-in-the-dike philosophy." The dike burst in September 1969, when hundreds of welfare mothers marched to the capital behind a radical Catholic priest named James Groppi to press for more aid. They stormed the Assembly chamber, raised the red flags and ejected Thompson and the other legislators from their seats. Years later, Governor Thompson would lead the charge to shoo the mothers out of theirs.
ON A BRIGHT MORNING IN SPRING Green, where Frank Lloyd Wright built Taliesen, Thompson jauntily scissors a ribbon on the visitor's center, another of the architect's landmark buildings. The Governor came up with a financing plan for its restoration after decades of neglect when his more liberal predecessors ignored pleas for help. In a speech to a crowd that includes Wright's acolytes, Thompson confesses that Frank Lloyd never really turned him on. (Later, as we're leaving, he notes that Wright was "socialistic" and "didn't pay his bills.") So how did a pro-business Governor whose artistic taste tends toward Schwarzenegger flicks become the savior of a notoriously left-wing architect's work? Thompson says he had an epiphany about Wright's worth during a trade mission to Japan. He was having the darnedest time getting the Japanese psyched about Wisconsin. Finally he mentioned that Wright was a native son and his audience applauded wildly. "Then," says Thompson, "I knew I had something I could sell." The liberal chairman of the preservation committee whispers to the Governor, "It's like Nixon going to China." Tommy gets a kick out of the line and minutes later tells a local TV reporter, "I'm like Nixon going to China!"
In 1986, during his first gubernatorial campaign, liberals likened Thompson to the shadier side of Tricky Dick. "They tried to paint him as this Nixonian character, darkly complected and untrustworthy," John MacIver, his campaign chairman, recalls. For Thompson's propensity as minority leader to scream about virtually every bill the Democrats proposed, they tagged him "Dr. No." Despite the mockery, Dr. No won by blaming the Democratic incumbent, Anthony Earl, for the recession and for turning Wisconsin into a welfare magnet. "In one of the debates, Tony Earl used a classic line: 'Tommy Thompson wants to reform welfare and make Wisconsin like Mississippi,' " recalls Thompson. "I came back immediately: 'With you in charge, we're attractin' all the people from Mississippi up here anyway.' "
Once elected, Thompson slashed welfare benefits 6 percent; they've been frozen ever since. Even so, he's forever lamenting a migration of welfare families. "Twenty-eight percent of the newest people on welfare in Milwaukee County -- their last known address is Chicago. We're still 45 percent higher than Illinois -- for an $8 bus ticket, you can get $200 more coming to Wisconsin." Last July, he stood on the border to warn would-be welfare migrants that they will continue to receive the A.F.D.C. level of their native state for six months after arriving here.
Wisconsinites "are just fed up to their eyeteeth with people comin' in from other states, not working," Thompson says. "People in Wisconsin expect people to work -- maybe it's the old Germanic heritage, the old European heritage." More than half the state claims German ancestry. The majority leader of the Assembly, Scott Jensen, who ran Thompson's campaign in 1990, recalls polling undecided voters, mostly Reagan Democrats in Milwaukee's Germanic, blue-collar neighborhoods: "The thing that went off the Richter scale" -- in Thompson's favor -- was welfare reform."
Ed Garvey, a Madison-based attorney and labor consultant and a failed Democratic senatorial candidate, believes that the Governor's rhetoric and welfare reforms appeal to the electorate's basest instincts: "When it comes to welfare, Tommy has been a very successful demagogue, playing on racial fear and tension." State Senator Gwendolynne Moore, a Democrat who represents a poor district in Milwaukee, says: "Tommy Thompson has done a very good job of creating a class war here between working poor and A.F.D.C. recipients."
But over the years Thompson has gained favor with virtually every segment of the population: in 1986, he won 10 percent of the African-American vote; in 1990, 20 percent; and in 1994, by his count, more than 40 percent of that vote. John Gard, the Republicans' welfare expert in the State Assembly, argues that Thompson broke through the liberals' rhetorical wall in 1987 with "Learnfare," which docked welfare benefits of parents whose children were truants. Though evaluations show no clear evidence of success or cost-effectiveness, Thompson has hailed Learnfare as a triumph and expanded the program statewide. "Learnfare was such a no-brainer in most people's eyes," says Gard. "How can you be against forcing kids to go to school? Tommy used the phrase 'tough love' and it sold. Two years after the Governor first took office, a lot of Democrats who fought it lost. So others became fearful of standing in the way of more welfare initiatives."
The initiatives kept coming in the form of small experiments, none of which have yet to yield conclusive results. Children First tells noncustodial fathers: support your kid or go to jail. Bridefare, begun last July, encourages teen-age parents to marry by offering a hike in benefits. Now Thompson is trying to sell a Family Cap, to end additional payments for each child a woman bears. "Does The Milwaukee Journal give you extra money when you have extra children?" he asks a reporter. "I don't know anybody that does."
"TWO YEARS AND YOU'RE out!" Thompson's biggest little experiment yet, began two weeks ago in Fond du Lac and Pierce Counties. Edward Schilling, Fond du Lac's director of social services, says the word is going out: "From the moment you receive your first welfare check, the clock is ticking." Move to another county and "the clock goes with you." Each time I press the Governor on how many welfare moms won't find a job before time runs out, he says, "I expect to hit 1,000 percent."
Is he fantasizing? Perhaps not entirely. The two counties selected are almost exclusively white, have very low unemployment rates and a combined A.F.D.C. caseload of roughly 900, many of whom are not risks for long-term dependency. What's more, the Governor has jacked up portions of the welfare budgets to pay for more counseling, job training, child care and transportation. New applicants enter the program immediately; others will be phased in by June 30.
And Thompson is already pressuring his pals in private industry to hire welfare recipients so nobody hits the cliff. Welfare mothers will have to start working off their A.F.D.C. benefits in approved job-readiness activities immediately, but the program converts their food stamps into cash and guarantees them child care. "You know the result that is wanted," says the Assembly speaker, David Prosser Jr. "They will move heaven and earth to get those people jobs."
But even Thompson's closest allies don't really expect everyone to beat the clock. John Gard, the state representative who sponsored Work-Not-Welfare in the Assembly, conservatively estimates that three-quarters will be working after two years. The secretary of administration, James Klauser, Thompson's brilliant alter ego, says simply, "You will have some klinkers."
Thompson himself finally admits it. "Maybe you're right, maybe we won't place all of them," he says. "If, in fact, we can't, there has to be some way to subsidize employers for that person to work in the private sector."
How long will the subsidy last?
"We'll have to see," he says.
You'll improvise as you go?
"Yes."
And if recipients don't show up for work?
"They don't get paid."
What happens to their kids?
"The kids will continue to get their welfare and food stamps."
How can a 4-year-old cash welfare checks and go grocery shopping?
"We may have to set up guardians for them."
So the parents will lose their kids?
"Not necessarily," he says. "You can allow the guardian to pay for the food and shelter, but the end result could be that if the parent still refuses to take care of the child, we'll look after the child. The children will be taken care of. There won't be any children starving on the streets."
Successful or not in these small counties, Democrats contend, the experiment covers only 1 percent of the state's welfare population. None are in Milwaukee, where nearly half the A.F.D.C. recipients live, where jobs are scarce and public transportation weak. When Democrats blew up Wisconsin's welfare system with their 1993 legislative gambit, they had control of the State Assembly and hoped for guaranteed community service jobs as the new safety net. Now that Republicans have won back the Assembly, it looks as if some version of "Two years and you're out!" will go statewide by 1997.
The outcome of Tommy Thompson's welfare reforms will not be clear for some time, but Michael Wiseman, associate director of the La Follette Institute at the University of Wisconsin, says he's making huge political hay in the meantime. "The Governor's genius is in dramatically building a large number of welfare reforms and postponing the consequences. If you look closely, you discover that many so-called reforms either haven't been implemented, are very small or the evaluations are postponed for a very long period of time."
Wisconsin's constitution assigns the Governor broad veto power, but in Thompson's hands it has become a kind of veto Veg-o-matic -- slicing and dicing paragraphs, words and numbers to find new and sometimes contrary meanings for what the Legislature intended. In his first term, Thompson even employed what the local media dubbed "the Vanna White veto," striking individual letters to form entirely new words, until a constitutional amendment reined him in a bit. Still, in eight years, Thompson has executed nearly 1,500 vetoes to slash about $800 million in proposed spending.
The Governor talks about the veto as a sign of manliness envied by his friend George Bush. "He loved the fact that I had the power to use it," says Thompson. "I tried to convince Boyden Gray to issue an opinion that President Bush could use the line-item veto." But the White House counsel raised obvious Constitutional objections. Objections don't bother Tommy: "If I was president, I would use the line-item veto right now. I would make the court stop me from using it."
Does Tommy Thompson mean to be the man with the ultimate veto? He recently told me he soon would "look" at making a Presidential bid, while plugged-in the G.O.P. strategist Vin Weber says he understands the Governor is already running. "But it's going to be tough for him to get into the top ranks, tough to raise the money," says Weber. "I know that's not what he wants to hear, but he's got strong potential to be a Vice-Presidential nominee."
Meanwhile, Thompson sounds positively eager to compete with his fellow Governors in what he conceives as a kind of N.F.L. playoffs of welfare systems. "Other states may want to try orphanages -- let 'em try it," he says. "Then let us see what is doin' the best. That's the beauty of settin' up all these little laboratories of democracy across the country, and we can stand back and compete. Washington should be sort of the referee and say: 'Here are 50 states. You have 50 different solutions to moving people off of welfare. Now go to it, and in five years we're going to come back and see which ones make the Super Bowl.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thompson was swept back into the Governor's chair with a whopping 67 percent of the vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH SAAL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN; UNITED STATES (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FAMILY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CHILDREN (77%); POLITICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); 

PERSON: ATKINS, NORMAN; THOMPSON, TOMMY (GOV) TOMMY THOMPSON (91%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



406 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: ART VIEW;
Bric-a-Brac Art: The Obsessions Of a Collagist

BYLINE: By Pepe Karmel 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
KURT SCHWITTERS HAS always inspired fanatical devotion in his admirers, but the retrospective of his work now at the Pompidou Center in Paris takes this devotion to new extremes. Organized by Serge Lemoine, head curator of the Musee de Grenoble and a professor at the Sorbonne, it includes well over 300 works of art by Schwitters (paintings, collages, assemblages, sculptures and drawings), as well as 150 typographic works (poems, postcards, magazines, bureaucratic forms).
The obsessive quality of the exhibition seems perfectly appropriate to its subject. Schwitters (1887-1948), best known for his collages mixing snippets of typography with colored geometric shapes, was an obsessive kind of artist. His lifelong friend and collaborator, the German Dadaist Raoul Hausmann, recalled encountering Schwitters in a train station, kneeling on the floor with a bag full of paper strips that looked like entrails of a butchered animal. Schwitters was working with scissors and glue on a scrap of cardboard. "Kurt, what are you doing?" Hausmann asked. Schwitters answered that he had suddenly realized that he needed to add a piece of blue paper to the corner of a collage and so had set to work there and then. 
 Schwitters's collage technique represented a conscious decision to make art from what other people thought of as garbage: "old tram tickets, scraps of wood, coat checks, iron bars or pieces of wheels, buttons, old bric-a-brac from attics." He called his work Merz, a nonsense word he explained alternatively as coming from an advertisement for a Kommerz-bank (commercial bank) or from the verb ausmerzen, meaning "to discard." Schwitters's embrace of the trivial, the discarded and the disdained made him the patron saint of numerous later artists: Americans like Robert Rauschenberg, Jasper Johns and Allan Kaprow (inventor of the "happening"), and Europeans like Jacques Villegle, Mimmo Rotella and Daniel Spoerri, who made pictures from torn movie posters or household objects.
After his death in 1948, Schwitters's reputation remained strong in the United States. He appealed to the Walt Whitman strain in American culture: the democratic desire to believe that no aspect of life is so humble that it can't become material for art. In Europe, however, Schwitters went into something of an eclipse. He was particularly neglected in France: the Pompidou exhibition, which runs though Feb. 20, marks his first retrospective in a French museum.
Schwitters's parents ran a successful women's clothing shop in the provincial city of Hanover. He studied art at the Dresden Royal Academy, demonstrating an unexceptional talent for conventional painting. In June 1918 his canvases were exhibited at the gallery Der Sturm, nerve center of the German Expressionist movement. Soon after, he moved to Berlin, hoping to become part of the new, more radical avant-garde movement Dada. Abandoning realism, he turned to abstraction and collage.
Schwitters's first collages were exhibited in June 1919, with paradoxical results: he received good reviews and began to sell to important collectors, but he was rejected by the German Dadaists he yearned to join; they were fervent Communists and found Schwitters hopelessly bourgeois. Schwitters didn't disagree: he once described himself to a friend as "a bourgeois and an idiot." But the rejection stung. Although befriended by some members of the Dada group (including Raoul Hausmann, Hannah Hoch, Max Ernst and Tristan Tzara), he moved back to Hanover and declared himself the inventor of a new artistic movement: Merz. In 1923, he began publishing an art magazine under this title.
By this time Schwitters was arguably better known as a poet than as an artist. His surrealist love poem "Anna Blume" was a kind of pop hit, translated into a half-dozen languages, and his first collection of poetry sold a remarkable 13,000 copies. Schwitters and his friends toured Germany, Czechoslovakia and Holland with a series of Dada theatrical performances that proved surprisingly popular. His "Ursonate" ("Sonata of Primal Sounds") won over even conservative audiences. (It plays continuously in one room of the Pompidou exhibition and is available on CD.)
SCHWITTERS'S ATTRACTION TO trash and nonsense came from Dada, but the formal organization of his work reflected the examples first of Cubism and later of Russian Constructivism and the Dutch movement De Stijl. By the end of the decade, Schwitters had expanded the term Merz to include art, poetry and performance. "At present," he said, "I call myself Merz." Bit by bit, he transformed his studio into a larger-than-life collage, the Merzbau (Merz-structure), which is often seen as anticipating the art-world "environments" and "happenings" of the 1960's. To supplement his inherited income, he opened a typographic studio in Hanover, designing clean, modern posters and advertisements for department stores, industrial associations and the municipal government.
The idyll came to an end with Hitler's rise to power in the 1930's. Schwitters's books were burned by the Nazis in 1934; his collages were held up for scorn in the "Degenerate Art" exhibition of 1937. He went into exile in Norway, fleeing to England in 1940. He survived by painting realistic portraits and landscapes. The Hanover Merzbau was destroyed in the war, and his plans to reconstruct it were cut short by his death in 1948.
The Pompidou show stakes out a claim for the importance of Schwitters's sculptures, drawings, poems, typographical work and realistic paintings, as well as his abstract collages and paintings.
This would certainly have pleased Schwitters, who stated in 1925 that "everything an artist spits out is art." But the inclusion of a large number of Schwitters's undistinguished realistic paintings is problematic. His Merz work is also uneven. A good deal of it looks like generic modernism. His surrealist "i-drawings" are mediocre essays in the manners of Marc Chagall, Max Ernst and Paul Klee. His abstract reliefs echo those of Ivan Puni. His freestanding sculptures of the 1930's and 40's seem to be modeled, alternately, on the rectangular "arkhitektons" of Kasimir Malevich and the early, Surrealist sculptures of Alberto Giacometti.
The Pompidou show ends up confirming that Schwitters's greatest talent was for collage. Schwitters himself saw the harmonious combination of diverse materials in his collages as a symbol of alienation overcome, a demonstration of how modern man could be saved from "the tragic chaos of life." In the mammoth (398-page) catalogue, several essayists suggest that Schwitters remained far more of an Expressionist than is usually acknowledged. The violence of his early work is still evident in his collages, where the geometrical forms and colors infuse the mute fragments of printed material with a remarkable degree of emotional power.
Letters and numbers, detached from their contexts, reveal the beauty of their arches and columns, while suggesting an open-ended universe of potential meaning. The very banality of the printed matter in Schwitters's collages imbues it with a kind of magic. Tickets and schedules evoke the familiar routines of everyday life. Chocolate wrappers, cigarette packets and ads for coffee recall quotidian pleasures that had become unaffordable in the inflationary chaos of postwar Germany.
In a work like the 1939 collage "Prikken Paa I en," done in Norway, the seemingly haphazard selection of printed matter transforms the significance of the abstract composition. The stacked rectangles that the Russian Constructivists had used to symbolize the bright future of the socialist revolution here serve to anchor the debris of a world sliding into war.
Pages torn from a calendar evoke the slow passage of time spent in exile. The semi-italic "i" near the center of the composition quotes the entire text of Schwitters's 1922 "i-Poem," which he explained as follows: "You go up, you go down, you go up, and a little point on top." Below, a fragment from a typed letter recalls the artist's lost home at Waldhausenstrasse 5, in Hanover. Schwitters's best collages, like this one, seem to sum up not just the history of modern art but the larger history of the 20th century, with its terrifying mixture of euphoria and despair.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Point Over the I" from 1939 -- beauty that originates in banality. (Ph. Migeat/Musee d'art Moderne, Centre Georges Pompidou)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (86%); GERMANY (71%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (71%); 

COMPANY: POMPIDOU CENTER (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: POMPIDOU CENTER (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (86%); GERMANY (71%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); BERLIN, GERMANY (71%); 

SUBJECT: ART; SHOWS (EXHIBITS) EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PAINTING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: KARMEL, PEPE; SCHWITTERS, KURT KURT SCHWITTERS (97%); RAOUL HAUSMANN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



407 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Surrounded by Zealots

BYLINE: By Fouad Ajami; Fouad Ajami is the Majid Khadduri Professor of Middle Eastern Studies at the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University. Among his books is "The Arab Predicament."

 BODY:

ALLAH O AKBAR
A Journey Through Militant Islam.
By Abbas.
Illustrated. 319 pp. San Francisco:
Phaidon Press/Chronicle Books. $60. 
WHEN the daguerreotype went to the Middle East in the mid-19th century, it brought with it a sense of hubris. The first photographers -- the French who came in search of the romance of the East, the British who were entranced by biblical landscape -- claimed for their medium a measure of infallible truthfulness, and promised that it would dispense with the subjectivity of the lithograph and render the East as it really was. All that was, of course, innocence. The photograph, too, as Kiku Adatto put it in her recent book, "Picture Perfect," was both art and artifice, a work of interpretation and of commentary and selection.
Now Abbas, an Iranian-born photojournalist who lives in Paris and works with the Magnum agency, has given us in photos and text his own interpretation of the world of Islam. His book, "Allah O Akbar: A Journey Through Militant Islam," culled from photographs taken during travels through 29 countries, is the product of a long journey that begins in Iran, in the throes of revolution in 1978-79, and closes with the ordeal of Sarajevo. This was no ordinary era in the life of Muslim civilization. It was a time of great agitation and of breakdown, and Abbas's photos, a few exceptions aside, capture a world in turmoil and on edge. "Allah O Akbar" is not a joyous book. It could not be. A man with a camera, a man who himself is part of his own story, threatened by it and by the excess he is drawn to, has returned with what he has seen and heard in the vast expanses of Islam.
The men are armed, the women are veiled, the children are joyless, and everywhere the faith is a weapon, an alibi or a ruler's prop: this in the main is the world that Abbas's photos and text render. Had Abbas not written a single word, had he not told us in his text, and in the subtitle of his book, of his intent, we would still see his will at work, imposing itself on the material, leveling that vast and varied Islamic world -- all the way from Timbuktu to Sarajevo, from Kabul to the Muslims of France, from Pakistan to New York's Seventh Avenue, where a group of Muslim Shiites enact an old ritual of their faith -- into an undifferentiated mass of "militant" believers. Though the Iranian revolution has been unable to remake the Muslim world in its own image, Abbas is convinced that the hurricane is coming. He has traveled widely but always deeply into that fear. In its turn, the fear simplified and disfigured so much of what he saw along the way. Abbas cannot explain, for one, why the suffering city of Sarajevo belongs in a book on militant Islam. Its proper place, I would think, is in an inquiry into militant Slavism and the pitiless nationalisms of the post-Communist world.
For me, the defect of Abbas's vision and his willful determination to have us see only what he wants us to see were given away in his exploration of Malaysia. In that Conradian setting of river and forest, where Islam spread through commerce and made its peace with older ideas and civilizations, in a place of potentially great wonder for a Muslim from the Arab and Iranian heartland of Islam, Abbas finds his true believers: scattered villages and communes where the Bumiputras (the indigenous Malays, the "sons of the earth") have set up miniature Islamic republics, far away from the temptations of the city, from the modern economy dominated by the Malaysian Chinese. "My most powerful images," Abbas writes, "the ones that I will use in my book," will come from these villages. "I know that, even before looking at the contact sheets. But is it fair to show only these somber images of a many-faceted Malaysia? Will my journey through Islam, which is undergoing a resurgence everywhere, for better or for worse, be a record only of its excesses?"
When Abbas took to the road, shortly after Khomeini's revolution had triumphed in Iran, he knew, he recalls, that he needed a new "photographic language" that would go beyond the action in the streets and capture the inner workings of the places he would explore. "I had to move from the essay to the novel," he writes. But novels are about ambiguity, surprise and the meanderings of fate, and these are missing from Abbas's journey. Everywhere he went in the umma (the Islamic community), Abbas found re-enactments of what he left behind in Khomeini's Iran. His themes repeat themselves, and the geographical and cultural space he traverses grows familiar and constricting. The scenes of ritual slaughter and sacrifice of animals are repeated; so are funerals and visits to morgues, and photos of amputees. Few take time out from the rigors of the faith in Abbas's world. Even those occasions where joy and frivolity and the routine of life could have corrected for the excess -- a Cairo fashion show; a Kabul bride staring into the camera next to a photo of the groom, who is away in Germany; a belly dancer in France entertaining a group of Renault factory workers in celebration of the end of Ramadan, the month of fasting -- do not lift the gloom. Those, too, are not photos of people at peace. The gloom in the world and the photographer's gloom -- the circle is closed.
The rihla, the voyage, was once a great and beloved genre in the literature of Islam: the believer roaming "God's lands," making the pilgrimage to Mecca, bringing home tales of differing peoples and climes. Abbas has that genre on his mind. A friend of his, he tells us, gave him a chronicle of the famous 14th-century North African traveler Ibn Battuta (the Marco Polo of Islam, he has been called), who left his Moroccan birthplace, at the age of 21, on travels that took him, over the course of 30 years, eastward to India and China, northward to Central Asia and deep into Africa. But Abbas drew no comfort from Ibn Battuta; he found him a flatterer of the grandees whose hospitality he always sought, and a bigot interested only in the lives of Muslims, dismissive of all "infidels." Fair enough. Perhaps Ibn Battuta had a better run than he deserved; many of his contemporaries saw through his boastings and limitations.
Yet, for all the failings of that medieval traveler, his sense of wonder and awe at what he had seen always intruded and kept readers returning to his tales. This is where Abbas shortchanged himself and his craft and his subject and his audience. Had he been ready to look and inquire, had he been willing to be surprised, the traveler's luck might have saved him, given him a new view of things, added to his knowledge of the world and stilled his anxieties.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muslim children learning the Koran by rote at a Koranic school in Egypt. (ABBAS/MAGNUM/FROM "ALLAH O AKBAR")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: ALLAH O AKBAR: A JOURNEY THROUGH MILITANT ISLAM (BOOK)

COUNTRY: MIDDLE EAST (88%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); FRANCE (58%); UNITED STATES (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (51%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (88%); EGYPT (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%); FRANCE (58%); UNITED STATES (51%); NEW YORK, USA (51%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS RELIGION (94%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WRITERS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); LITERATURE (73%); 

PERSON: AJAMI, FOUAD; ABBAS (PHOTO JOURNALIST) ALLAH O AKBAR A JOURNEY (61%); ALLAH O AKBAR (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



408 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 6; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Mystery Of an Old Carousel

BYLINE: By ELLEN MITCHELL 

 BODY:
OLD habits die hard. Perhaps that explains why Northrop Grumman has cloaked its carousel in a mantle of mystery befitting a military secret. The carousel nestles in a wood shelter in a grove of trees at Calverton, where Grumman once tested aircraft.
Now that the plant is being decommissioned and the Navy has announced its intention to give the site to the Riverhead Community Development Agency, the fate of the carousel is in question. 
 The Town of Riverhead and the Village of Greenport have expressed interest. A spokesman for Northrop Grumman, Richard C. Dunne, said an amusement park in New Jersey and the Veterans of Foreign Wars had also asked about the carousel.
Since 1955 the carousel had been a feature at the annual picnics for Grumman employees and their families. The picnic grounds also boast a midget-horse ride and two miniature railroads. No one would say whether a tiny roller coaster with a caterpillarlike top remains at the site.
Memorabilia about the rides has been packed in Grumman archives, until the company, can "evaluate what will be deemed excess at the Calverton facility," a vice president, Marvin Elkin, said. Eventually the archives are to be moved to the Smithsonian Institution, said Edward J. Smits, the Nassau County Historian. In a written response to inquiries from Greenport residents, Mr. Elkin said Northrop Grumman wanted to establish the worth of the equipment in preparation for a sale or a donation.
"It's not certain to me what we will do with it," Mr. Dunne said. "It may not even stay on Long Island."
He said the carousel was probably worth "something in the six-figure range. It's a beautiful looking thing. It's in decent shape and it has a calliope. The only thing it doesn't have is a brass ring."
Mayor David Kapell of Greenport said he noticed the carousel several years ago, boarded up in its pavilion, while driving past Calverton on Route 25. Having grown up in New York City as a devotee of the Merry-Go-Round in Central Park, Mr. Kapell could not erase the specter of the Grumman carousel. When he learned that the site was to be decommissioned, Mr. Kapell convinced the Greenport Village Board that a carousel would be the perfect centerpiece to revitalize the business district.
Mr. Kapell, who also sells antiques, said he had not been permitted to inspect the carousel, adding: "I understand it is a vintage carousel with hand-carved horses. That's very unusual. It's a great treasure and it should stay on Long Island. Typically such a carousel would be sold off for the horses. They'd go to an antiques auction and that would be a shame."
Mr. Kapell's effort is bolstered by the Greenport Merchants Committee, which says the carousel would encourage tourism and help reverse the decline that it says has affected Greenport since World War II.
The idea is also being applauded by third and fourth graders in Greenport, 59 of whom sent letters to Northrop Grumman. One said:
"Dear Grumman, how are you today? May Greenport have this carousel? We need it! Please. There is nothing in this town for kids and it would be nice. I'd love a carousel. If you let us have it that would be nice. Please! From the desk of Mark DeLano."
"Dear Grumman," another student wrote, "we're asking you nicely so could we please, please, please have that carousel. Because you don't need it. Katria Nieves."
"Dear Mr. Grumman," a third letter said, "if we get your carousel we will put it in a big building and clean it every time it gets dirty. Your Friend, Adam Nitsch."
The heaviest competition is from Riverhead, which will take over the site when Northrop Grumman disposes of its assets, including the carousel. A commission has been established to advise Riverhead on the best economic use for the property. That panel has taken no position on the carousel, according to its chairman Bob Goodale.
"Perhaps the picnic grounds and the things that work well on that site should remain," Mr. Goodale said. "But Northrop Grumman will decide what to do with its property and how to dispose of it. In the case of the carousel, perhaps there would be an auction. Northrop Grumman would, of course, like to get as much money as possible."
The carousel was installed in 1955. A retiree, Stephen Haizlip, who used to inspect it for safety problems, recalled a manufacturer's nameplate dating from the 1930's. Mr. Haizlip said the carousel was brought out in the summer for the last Grumman picnic.
"I took my 8-year-old grandson for a ride on it," Mr. Haizlip recounted. "It worked like a charm."
"Oh, it was wonderful," recalled Sharon Grosser, a Grumman employee for 27 years. As the child of Grumman parents, she first rode the carousel and all the other rides at the age of 4. "It was like Disneyland, but it was free," Ms. Grosser said. "You could go back on again and again. And it was so pretty. You were awestruck."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two girls ride the carousel at a Grumman employee picnic. (Grumman Plane News, 1971)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (92%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (92%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (92%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CAROUSELS AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); HORSES (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); HISTORY (74%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (72%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (70%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (64%); 

PERSON: DAVID KAPELL (73%); STEPHEN HAIZLIP (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



409 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Plainfield's Gambling, a First, in Need of New Blood

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
ONCE, the 4,000-car parking lot at Plainfield Greyhound Park was filled nearly to overflowing every time Ike, the mechanical rabbit the dogs chase around the track, began his run.
But today, even on a good day, there are acres of parking space available for the matinees, and within an easy walk to the door at night. 
 By any measure, business is seriously diminished at the track. Racing started in 1976, bettors plunked down almost $125 million that year; then the betting settled down to about $100 million a year for the next 14 years. This year the track expects its "handle" to be in the range of $40 million. Attendance last year was 421,685, down from 933,557 a decade ago.
Rachel Allard, a clerk at the Plainfield Yankee Motor Inn, a 49-unit hotel adjoining the greyhound track, said "Five or six years ago, about 75 percent of the people coming in here were going to the track. Now, maybe it's 50 percent on weekends, and we don't have any during the week."
A poor economy in the late 1980's might have started the track's decline, but competition from the Foxwoods casino in Ledyard has hastened it considerably, said Dennis Buden, spokesman for the track.
And another Indian casino expected to open next year in Montville, coupled with a $111 million greyhound park going up in Bridgeport, could be the death knell for what was Connecticut's first parimutuel operation. Mr. Buden said the racetrack will seek legislation to add slot machines and gaming tables to its gambling lineup. With many new legislators and a new governor, he has more hope than before November, he said. The track's employees, and many townspeople, have become politically active to support the change.
Mr. Buden said in the almost 20 years since the Plainfield track opened, the nature of gaming has changed, with demand rising for the simpler forms of gambling.
"While we're proud of the history of our sport, you have to spend quite a bit of time learning about racing, handicapping and so forth, before it makes sense," Mr. Buden said. "People want to come, drop the quarter in the slot, find out right away whether they've won or lost, and then move on."
Unlike the case in Ledyard, where neighboring towns have done everything they can to fight the traffic and other problems from the casino, the greyhound track enjoys tremendous local support.
Mr. Buden said the track employs 350 people, primarily from the Danielson area, which traditionally has some of the highest unemployment and lowest wages in the state. The track has provided steady jobs, with some people there since its opening.
"Families have been brought up on the track," Mr. Buden said. "Moms who clerked here in the 1970's, their daughters are here today. The legislature has to make a determination that this industry is worth preserving, that these jobs are worth saving."
People locally worry that the once-bustling 120,000-square-foot racing track and 10 kennel buildings on 82 acres just off Interstate 395 could be vacant before long if there is not some legislative relief.
"We welcomed the track when it came in because it brought so many jobs with it," said Debra E. Pepin, president of the Plainfield Chamber of Commerce and one of the owners of DV Television and Appliance, a family-owned business in Plainfield since 1949.
At the time the track came in, the mills that were the lifeblood of the town were closing down, and people had no money to spend anywhere. Afterward, the hotels and restaurants boomed, and with the track created jobs that boosted the economy, she said.
And despite its own misfortunes, the track continues to be civic-minded, helping out with food baskets for the needy at the holidays and other charitable causes.
"They're one of the biggest supporters of our high school in terms of scholarship money, and when any organization needs help they're always right there," Ms. Pepin said.
The track is also the town's biggest taxpayer, said Plainfield First Selectman Paul E. Sweet, a Democrat serving his third term. Each spring he leads a delegation to Hartford to plead for legislative backing to keep the track in business. In the last 10 years alone, the track has paid more than $100 million in state and local taxes.
Mr. Sweet said he did a survey recently in which he sent out questionnaires to the 2,000 families that live closest to the track, asking if they would approve of slot machines at the track. Of the 1,800 returned, more than 1,500 were in favor. "They take good care of their place, they take good care of their employees, and there's no fear that it would go bad just because they get slot machines," Mr. Sweet said. "The principal attitude is, 'If they can do it down in Ledyard, we should be able to do it here.' We're not looking for slot machines in every hotel or motel around. But just in the track -- no one objects."
He said in the last few years, Plainfield Greyhound Park has been prevented from bringing in slot machines because of an agreement Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. signed with the Mashantucket Pequot tribe giving them exclusive rights to run slot machines at their Foxwoods Resort & Casino in Ledyard.
"You have to question the constitutionality of this arrangement, because it's giving one business a monopoly," Mr. Sweet said. "For the state to put somebody out of business while propping up somebody else is just wrong. There's going to be a big lobbying effort. This is the year we're either going to survive -- or not."
Peter C. Smith, executive director of the Connecticut Pari-Mutuel Association, headquartered in Hamden, said wagering at the state's parimutuel operations has dropped $180 million since Foxwoods opened. Attendance at the tracks dropped 9 percent in 1992, the year Foxwoods opened, and 16.2 percent in 1993.
Mr. Smith said all the parimutuels will seek permission to put in slots or table games this year to boost their business. Several other states have already allowed it, he said, and in California, at least one racetrack saw its racing handle increased after it put in table games.
Mr. Smith agreed that the fast pace of gaming is driving the change. People can place 6 to 12 bets at a slot machine each minute, compared with 6 to 12 races the whole evening at a track.
"Tracks really don't want to run away from their base," Mr. Smith said. "But they need that other segment of business to complement their live product."
Mr. Buden said the legislature has been generous to the track so far. The tax rate on greyhound racing betting had dropped twice in the last two years, from 7.25 percent on evert dollar bet to a sliding scale that begins at 2 percent on the first $50 million each year. In 1991 the track was allowed to put in Simulcasting screens to show and take bets on races at other tracks.
Even with those improvements, "At best, we are marginally profitable," Mr. Buden said. Half the building is closed off during the week to cut costs for cleaning and staff. But the track also has put in a new dining operation this year, and improved its Simulcast equipment. "We're not just sitting on our hands, waiting for a gift from Hartford," Mr. Buden said. "We're doing everything we can. The question is, is it going to be enough?"
Slot machines, which typically account for 60 to 70 percent of casino revenues, are generating $450 million a year at Foxwoods.
The new Montville casino will make the drain from dog racing worse, Mr. Buden said. As far as the Bridgeport complex, said there are two schools of thought: that it will draw away business from the western end of the state; or form a "critical mass" of greyhound racing that might draw more people to the state.
"That was kind of our hope when Foxwoods came on line too, that the interest the casino would generate in gaming would translate to more business at the track," Mr. Buden said. "But it never materialized in any significant way. We obviously won't know until Bridgeport is up and running."
Mr. Buden said without slot machines, there's a real danger Plainfield could close.
"Every time I think we've bottomed out, it turns out that we haven't -- I thought we hit bottom in 1991," Mr. Buden said. "Everything the legislature has done for us so far has been a stopgap measure. Now we're talking about survival."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The dogs represent a complicated wager now drawing scant attendance, either outside or inside on the screens. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FOXWOODS CASINO (LEDYARD, CONN) PLAINFIELD YANKEE MOTOR INN (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOXWOODS CASINO (LEDYARD, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: DOG RACING; PLAINFIELD GREYHOUND PARK (CONN); GAMBLING DOGS (90%); GAMING (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); CASINOS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (63%); GOVERNORS (63%); 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1995



410 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Peace Talks Resume in Mexico Even as Disputes in South Deepen

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN CRISTOBAL DE LAS CASAS, Mexico, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Peasant rebel leaders met today with representatives of President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon for the first formal negotiations in almost a year to end the uprising in the southern state of Chiapas.
There was a dramatic air to the encounter, held at a rebel strongholdin the Lacandon rain forest and announced in this outlying city only as it got under way. But hopes for peace were tempered by conflicts over politics and land that have deepened even as the threat of new fighting has waned. 
 Although the demands of the rebels range from economic support for poor farmers to the replacement of Mr. Zedillo's administration by a transitional Government, they said in a statement before the talks began that they would focus only on "measures to defuse the hostile climate and distance the danger of armed clashes between the two armies."
The chief mediator in the dialogue, Bishop Samuel Ruiz Garcia, said tonight that the two sides had held more than three hours of "frank, sincere" and "intense" discussions near the rebel capital of Guadalupe Tepeyac. He said the Government's three representatives were led by the Interior Minister, Esteban Moctezuma, while the Zapatista National Liberation Army delegation was headed by the rebel leader known as Subcommander Marcos.
Bishop Ruiz declined to provide details beyond that, suggesting that the talks were still preliminary and saying the negotiators would report publicly on them on Monday.
The meeting comes five months after elections that defrauded hopes for an easing of tensions in the state, giving way instead to further polarization. While Zapatistas have backed away recently from their threats to break a cease-fire that has held for the last year, the prospects for a lasting peace have appeared to grow steadily more remote.
The paradox of Chiapas remains that, while support for the insurgents has waned elsewhere in Mexico, the tensions fed by their rebellion have spread steadily out from the rebels' strongholds in the Lacandon rain forest.
The principal legacy of the election in August may in fact be that the forces on either side of the political divide are now more organized and militant than ever. Peasant groups and the Democratic Revolutionary Party are on the left, with big landholders and the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party on the right.
Peasants who have seized tens of thousands of acres of land are digging in on their new holdings and vowing not to give up. In response, the conservative ranchers who have always held sway in the region are setting up new alliances, stockpiling arms, running off some invaders and threatening others.
The state government that took office last month hoping to find a middle ground in the struggle has increasingly sided with the property owners, further alienating the peasants. A recent pledge by the Government to address the land problem in Chiapas by parceling out some larger holdings has seemed to have had almost no impact.
Groups loyal to Amado Avendano, the rumpled former newspaper publisher who ran as the left's gubernatorial candidate in August, have seized or tried to seize dozens of town halls around the state.
The situation has become so complicated that many political analysts say a settlement will be more difficult to fashion now than after the Zapatistas launched their war on Jan. 1, 1994.
"People are much more polarized now, and on both sides," a Government official said. "If it was tough before, it is going to be harder now."
The economic crisis set off by the sharp devaluation of the peso last month has done little to diminish the urgency.
The Government's forced reduction in its dependence on short-term foreign capital should ultimately reduce the economy's vulnerability to political shocks like those produced by the Zapatistas. But Chiapas remains a focus of Mexican and foreign investors, who have come to doubt Mr. Zedillo's leadership. After months in which officials confidently dismissed the possibility that the conflict might spread beyond the state, the country's sudden impoverishment has also prompted at least some of them to think again.
Shortly after the uprising began, peasants within the Zapatistas' area of influence seized thousands of acres of private land. But last summer the occupations began spreading to areas where the rebels have never been.
Since August, for example, the ski masks made famous by the insurgents have become a fixture at a sprawling coffee farm called Liquidambar, worn there by members of a radical peasant group that takes its name not from the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, but from his northern counterpart, Francisco (Pancho) Villa.
Peasants from a semi-communal farm nearby suggested that they had simply taken advantage of the breakdown of order to take lands that they had long claimed as their own. "We have always thought that this land would be ours," one of the leaders of the group, Tomas Perez, said through his mask as he sat on the estate's veranda. "But we gave thanks on that 1st of January."
But it was the Villa group rather than the nearby farmers that organized the occupation, bringing in scores of families from outside to work the farm as a collective.
Leaders of the occupation claimed they had documents attesting to their rightful ownership of the land, but they did not produce any. Nor did they see any possible solution to their situation in the recent pledge by Mr. Zedillo's Government to begin to apply land-reform laws more forcefully.
"This is not our Government; it is the Government of the rich," said another leader of the collective, Audelino Chavez, 43. "What is there to talk about with them?"
Ranchers and farmers have begun organizing more vigorously, both to lobby for the return of their properties and, in some instances, to act against the invaders.
The takeovers of town halls by leftist peasant and political groups have brought on similar confrontations.
Some of these have appeared almost entirely spontaneous, inspired to some extent by the Zapatistas, but clearly driven by local disputes. In the town of Amatenango del Valle last week, peasants who took over the municipal offices agreed to accept the results of a traditional Mayan Indian plebiscite, in which each side gathers its supporters to be counted one by one. When the vote was held on Friday, the peasants won, 1,095 bodies to 892.
But the tactic has increasingly been pushed by the self-styled "Government in Rebellion" that Mr. Avendano leads.
The parallel administration has encouraged the takeovers for much the same reasons that the Democratic Revolutionary Party has used them in other states where it claimed to have lost elections by fraud. In pressing for the ouster of the new Governor, Eduardo Robledo Rincon, Mr. Avendano has tried to make Chiapas ungovernable.
The party ordered at least a temporary end to the takeovers on Thursday, after a clash between peasants and police two days earlier in the town of Chicomuselo, near the border with Guatemala, that left at least six people dead. The episode made it evident, however, that the state's polarization was already well advanced.
At about midday Thursday the state attorney general, Jorge Enrique Hernandez Aguilar, arrived on the scene by helicopter. Upon failing to persuade the peasants to negotiate, he stormed away in disgust, apparently leaving behind orders to clear the town plaza. Numerous telephone calls requesting comment from him on the incident were not returned.
Moments later, witnesses said, the local and state police, backed up by heavily armed ranchers, began the violence again.
Mr. Hernandez blamed the violence squarely on Mr. Avendano, contending that he had ordered the takeover, and Mr. Avendano blamed the attorney general.
The two men know one another well: Mr. Hernandez, a lawyer and former leader of the state's corn farmers, once helped Mr. Avendano edit one of his rabble-rousing newspapers. When Mr. Hernandez was jailed for two years in the late 1980's for leading protests by the farmers, Mr. Avendano was a spearhead of his defense.

GRAPHIC: Maps shows the location of San Cristobal de las Casas, Mexico. (pg. A7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION ZAPATISTA ARMY OF NATIONAL LIBERATION (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CHIAPAS (MEX); MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INDIANS, AMERICAN REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); PEACE PROCESS (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); POLITICS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FARM LABOR (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO (PRES) ERNESTO ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



411 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-7
 
MEXICAN OPPONENTS MEET
Mexican peasant rebel leaders met with representatives of President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon for the first formal negotiations between the Government and the insurgents in almost a year. A1
 
HOLOCAUST REMEMBRANCE DISPUTE
Elie Wiesel, the Nobel laureate, said he was not sure whether he would attend ceremonies planned by Poland to mark the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz. A2 

RUSSIAN REBELS FIGHT ON
Under a ferocious Russian bombardment, Chechen fighters retained control of buildings in central Grozny, their capital, against nearly impossible odds. A6
 
A Russian colonel said Chechen resistance came as a surprise. A6
 
PESO'S ASIAN FALLOUT
Traders in East Asian stocks and currency braced for another rough week as the aftershocks of Mexico's financial crisis continued to pound emerging Asian markets. D1
 
HITTING A TARGET
Japan's automobile industry is almost certain to reach a goal set three years ago to buy $19 billion in American-made automobile parts this fiscal year. D2
 
Palestinians have planted trees to protest Jewish settlements. A3
 
Algerian militants have offered peace, with conditions. A3
 
Thousands of Berliners marched to salute two martyrs of 1919. A5
 
Changes in work hours are a hard sell to comfortable Germans. A6
 
In Manila, four million people turn out to hear Pope John Paul II. A7
 
Sani Top Journal: The scenery soars, and life is flat. A4
 
National A8-13
 
ECONOMIC DATA OVERHAUL
Federal statisticians are trying to remedy deficiencies in measuring the nation's economic performance. Analysts worry that the statistical system fails to capture the array of new technologies and structural changes in the economy. A1
 
THE GOVERNMENT'S STAR WITNESS
Michael Fitzpatrick, the man who accused the daughter of Malcolm X of trying to hire him to kill Louis Farrakhan, has a history of enticing others to their downfall. A1
 
WHOSE HISTORY IS IT ANYWAY?
The National Parks Service and the family of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. are at odds over plans for a monument in Atlanta to honor the slain civil rights leader. A1
 
A TOWN OF NATURAL DISASTERS
In 1992, one of the strongest earthquakes ever recorded in California struck Ferndale. This year, the floods came. What, residents wonder, will happen next? A8
 
A 'DREAM TEAM' FEUD
As O. J. Simpson heads for trial this week, an apparently irreparable breech has developed between two of his lawyers: Robert Shapiro and his former mentor, Lee Bailey A8
 
RESOLVED ELECTION RESULTS
Ellen Sauerbrey, a Republican, has withdrawn her appeal of a judge's decision not to overturn the Maryland gubernatorial election won by Parris Glendening. A12
 
PANEL ON DEFECTIVE PACEMAKERS
A panel of heart experts met to consider what to do about potentially defective wiring in already implanted heart pacemakers. A9
 
DANGER OF FRAGILE BUILDINGS
The steel-frame buildings that survived last year's Northridge earthquake are weaker and no one knows how to make them safer. A13
 
RESTORATION OF CONFIDENCE
New Orleans's Superintendent of Police plans to restore public confidence by rebuilding the scandal-rocked police department. A13
 
Life for Generation X Republicans in Washington is sweet. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A COMMUTING NIGHTMARE
It is 87 miles from Meriden, Conn., to the nearest General Motors plant, in Tarrytown, N.Y. Detroit calls them "G.M. Gypsies"; as plants close, workers commute to the outer limits of endurance. A1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
Great poets on tape. C11
Music: American Symphony and Bruckner. C12
Barber's "Vanessa" is revived. C18
Pearl Jam performs. C11
Dance: Paris Opera Ballet Ensemble. C11
Books: "The End of Victory Culture." C16
Television: "America's War on Poverty." B6
A new "Star Trek." B6
 
Sports C1-9
 
Basketball: No. 2 UConn women face No. 1. C2
Roe and UMass hit peak. C2
Boxing: An old story. C7
Columns: Anderson on 49ers. C5
Rhoden on Steelers. C6
Football: 49ers, Chargers advance to the Super Bowl. C1
Seau very good with one good arm. C7
Hockey: Rangers are healthy. C7
Tennis: The heat is on at Australian Open. C3
Sports People C9
 
Business Digest D1
 
Neediest Cases B3
 
Obituaries B8
 
Oren Root, former New York Superintendent of Banks.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Dr. King's memorial.
Mr. Aspin: Pick up the pace.
Breathing room on the homeless.
Albany begins to open up.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Truth and healing.
William Safire: Baltics belong in a big NATO.
Anita Haya Goldman: Martin Luther King, American.
Russell F. Moran: Juries are just saying no.
 
Bridge C17
 
Chronicle A14
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: A (AMEX) (82%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); POLAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY COUNTRY INDEX (JAPAN) (82%); C16 TELEVISION (62%); NATIONAL PARKS SERVICE (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); POLAND (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (83%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); HOLOCAUST (77%); EARTHQUAKES (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); STATISTICAL METHOD (69%); CIVIL RIGHTS (67%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (66%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%); LAWYERS (64%); WITNESSES (63%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (61%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); APPEALS (60%); GOVERNORS (60%); 

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



412 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Christopher Chides Yeltsin

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Under fire for strongly backing President Boris N. Yeltsin during the Chechnya crisis, Secretary of State Warren Christopher announced a modest change today in policy, warning Mr. Yeltsin that he could lose Washington's support if he forsakes democracy or free markets.
Mr. Christopher seemed to put new conditions on American support for the Russian leader. Appearing on the NBC News program, "Meet the Press," he said, "Our concern is for reform in Russia. We'll continue to support President Yeltsin as long as he is moving in the right direction." 
 After noting that Mr. Yeltsin has turned to Russia' right wing for support, Mr. Christopher said that when the crisis is over, "I hope he will move to re-engage himself with the reformers and bring them back to his side."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS TRENDS (88%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



413 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC REVIEW;
Bruckner Works and a Look at How They Came to Be

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH 

 BODY:
Probably no one who has spent much of his career immersed in the music of Mahler and Bruckner qualifies as a cockeyed optimist. But when Deryck Cooke published his blithely titled, influential little essay "The Bruckner Problem Simplified," in 1969, he reckoned without a new era of problematization, as academics like to call it.
And he surely reckoned without the gleeful musical problematizer Leon Botstein. "The spurious Schalk score," Mr. Cooke wrote with reference to the first published edition of Bruckner's Fifth Symphony, "has been abandoned by everybody." But here was Mr. Botstein, on Friday evening, conducting the American Symphony Orchestra in the Franz Schalk edition of the Fifth at Avery Fisher Hall. 
 Mr. Botstein, of course, is always happy to explain. The argument, growing out of a 1994 symposium at Connecticut College, "Perspectives on Anton Bruckner," and persuasively presented here in program notes and in a preconcert panel discussion, was that Cooke (though never mentioned by name) and others have grossly oversimplified the complex issue of the Bruckner editions.
Several of Bruckner's symphonies were first performed and published in versions prepared with help from his well-meaning friends, like Franz and Josef Schalk. In the 1930's, even before the early-music movement focused attention on original versions and composers' intentions, many began to argue that Bruckner's friends had taken advantage of his naive, malleable nature (traits since thrown into question) and foisted off inferior goods: only Bruckner's original manuscript versions, as eventually published in editions by Robert Haas, Leopold Nowak and others, were to be performed.
But what has been almost universally overlooked, when not actively concealed, is the seminal role of Nazi ideology in this makeover of a composer favored by the party. Reversion to the original, blunter, more blocklike scores, combined with a monumental performance style, carried Bruckner closer to Wagner (a Nazi deity), it was suggested in the discussion by Bryan Gilliam of Duke University, than to Schubert, who was perhaps nearer kin.
Mr. Botstein "de-Nazified" Bruckner in sound, presenting the Fifth Symphony in Schalk's sparer, more mercurial printed edition of 1896. He also imposed a leaner, lither, swifter performance style and, by and large, made a good case for it as one plausible approach among many.
Best of all, the orchestra's well-rehearsed exertions sounded like a performance rather than a demonstration. That cannot be said for the reading of Bruckner's "Psalm 146," a large-scale choral work, in the first half of the program. Evidently written in the late 1850's and never before performed or published, it was given here in an edition by Paul Hawkshaw of Yale University (another preconcert panelist), to be published next year.
To judge from its rote repetitiveness in parts, Bruckner had not yet learned what little he ever knew of economy. But a full appreciation of the work will have to await a more secure and purposeful orchestral performance and an acceptable gathering of vocal soloists.
The Canticum Novum Festival Singers, on the other hand, showed the benefit of Harold Rosenbaum's training here and in two sentimental bits of Bruckneriana for male chorus, "Germanenzug" ("The Teutons' Campaign") and "Abendzauber" ("Evening Magic"). Elias Mokole, a baritone, was a passable soloist in "Abendzauber," but the ditty's quaint charm derives chiefly from its coloristic use of three yodelers. Rick Karabetsus, Bruce Schuetz and Otto Weidner, imported for the occasion and presumably making their Avery Fisher Hall debuts, warbled delightfully.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (56%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (56%); CONNECTICUT, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; REVIEWS MUSIC (92%); MUSIC REVIEWS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); 

PERSON: OESTREICH, JAMES R; BOTSTEIN, LEON LEON BOTSTEIN (92%); AVERY FISHER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



414 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 Federal statisticians have begun the most ambitious effort since the late 1950's to remedy deficiencies in measuring the nation's economic performance. Government and private analysts worry that the statistical system increasingly fails to capture the numbing array of new technologies and structural changes in the economy, and it is widely believed that Government policies along with monetary regulation by the Federal Reserve have, to some extent, been thrown off by misleading data. [Page A1.] 
 If anyone in Orange County, Calif., has a right to say, "I told you so," it is John M. W. Moorlach -- the man who foresaw the county's investment problems even as he lost a bid for the county treasurer's job to Robert L. Citron, the incumbent. More than $2 billion in losses later, Mr. Citron has resigned, the county has filed for bankruptcy protection and Mr. Moorlach is talking with county supervisors hoping to be chosen as the replacement. [D1.]
 Struggling to get tighter control over medical costs for on-the-job injuries, many companies are adapting managed-care remedies they have long used to rein in employee health costs. [D1.]
 
International
 Traders in Asian stock and currency markets braced for another rough week as the aftershocks of Mexico's financial crisis continued to pound emerging markets. Economic officials across the region felt compelled to issue denials that they were considering devaluations. [D1.]
 Japan's automobile industry is almost certain to achieve a target set three years ago to buy $19 billion in U.S.-made auto parts this fiscal year, Government and industry officials said. [D2.]
 To catch up to the United States in multimedia technology, Japan's Government and seven major electronics companies are setting up a consortium to develop software for information networks, officials said. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
 A planned merger between Turner Broadcasting Systems and NBC collapsed over the issue of control after a meeting between John F. Welch Jr., chairman of General Electric, NBC's parent, and Ted Turner, chairman of Turner Broadcasting. [D1.]
 The changing economics of network television have come to this: Though a show will be broadcast on CBS, ABC will own a share in its profits. In the industry's often unpredictable dance, it's not so much a question of changing partners as it is dancing with whoever seems promising. Bill Carter: Television. [D1.]
 Analysts say newspaper advertising is healthier than it has been in years. Yet many papers are introducing further cost-cutting measures to offset a sharp rise in the cost of newsprint. [D6.]
 United States magazines, principally the domestic editions of business magazines, benefited from a significant increase in advertising from international sources. [D6.]
 A foray into interactivity by the CBS affiliate in Minneapolis-St. Paul is being introduced without benefit of fiber optic cable, mainframe computers or microprocessor-packed TV sets. [D6.]
 In a makeover as style-conscious as any undertaken in the salons that sell its hair care products, Redken Laboratories hopes to reintroduce itself as a hip marketer called Redken 5th Avenue NYC. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
 Inventors with patents pending, or those considering applying for one, should keep June 8 in mind. That's when new laws governing patent terms take effect, courtesy of the new General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
 The current rising star in the troubled airline industry? Delta Air Lines, which spent the holidays celebrating a Federal judge's decision that Delta was not liable for the demise of Pan American World Airways in 1991. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COUNTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ELECTRONICS (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); DEVALUATION (71%); NEWSPRINT (70%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (69%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (67%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (62%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (52%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (51%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (50%); FIBER OPTICS (50%); 

PERSON: JACK WELCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



415 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1323 words

HEADLINE: In Newark, Immigration Without Fear;
A Neighborhood Remade By Unexpected Hands

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Jack Santos, the owner of a restaurant in the Ironbound section of Newark, remembered how easy it was 30 years ago picking out the Portuguese illegal immigrants who had begun settling in what was then a gritty neighborhood of factories and small shops. They were the ones running down Ferry Street whenever an immigration van appeared.
The raids took place just about every week, he said, leaving scores of workers hiding in their apartments and rows of driverless delivery trucks along the main thoroughfare of Ferry Street. 
 "They would pick up people left and right," said Mr. Santos, who came to this country illegally in 1966.
While the prowling immigration van hasn't been seen in the neighborhood in decades, Mr. Santos notes with satisfaction that many of the same people who scattered down the street are now legal residents and own many of the stores on Ferry Street, turning it into a bustling market of Portuguese bakeries, clothing stores and coffee shops.
"If you go through each business, one by one, almost every one started off illegally," said Mr. Santos, 54, now a legal resident, as he took a break over an espresso at his restaurant, the Portuguese Pavilion, near Ferry Street.
In the space of 30 years, the Ironbound -- a name drawn from the two railroad lines that mark its boundaries -- has been transformed from a dingy industrial haven to a thriving enclave of Portuguese life. The transformation comes in large part from the entrepreneurship of the thousands of Portuguese illegal immigrants.
The Ironbound provides a snapshot of illegal immigration in the Northeast, a world that is strikingly different from that of the border states, which have dominated the debate over illegal immigration. The Portuguese are the largest group of illegal immigrants in New Jersey, with a population of about 17,000, but they have easily melted into the mass of legal immigrants.
While the pervasive image of illegal immigration is one of a shadowy nether world where impoverished immigrants live in hovels and work under harsh conditions, the Ironbound provides an example of an illegal immigrant life that is open, draws little scrutiny, and is virtually indistinguishable from that in the legal world.
In the compact 4.5-square miles of the Ironbound, illegal immigrants own businesses, pay taxes and, in contrast to the raids of 30 years ago, walk the streets with little fear of arrest.
"We are totally invisible," said Paul Quintela, 32, a bar manager who illegally came to the country in 1990. "No one knows about us. Being illegal is just a label that doesn't mean anything."
Sitting with a steaming cup of espresso at the Jackson Cafe just off Ferry Street, Mr. Quintela said that he never really thought of himself as an illegal immigrant, but rather just an immigrant out to make a better life for himself. From the beginning, he was the image of middle-class America -- a maitre d'hotel at a tony French restaurant in Morristown, with a nice home in the suburbs and a new Volkswagen sedan parked in the driveway.
He paid his taxes like everyone else, even using a Social Security number that he made up from nine randomly picked digits. Even though the Internal Revenue Service complained about the number every year, he said he always got his tax refund. "No problem," he said.
Before coming to the United States, he had owned an ice cream parlor, but saw little future for himself in Portugal. He found a job as a waiter on a cruise ship, and after two years, simply left one day to join a friend in the Ironbound.
He was startled to hear people speaking Portuguese everywhere on the street. He smelled the familiar aroma of baking custard tarts and Portuguese bread. In the taverns, he could linger at a table over a glass of Licor Beirao and espresso, just like back home.
"I thought I was still in Portugal," said Mr. Quintela, who eventually became a legal resident of the United States through the sponsorship of his employer at the restaurant. "In a lot of ways, this is more home to me than Portugal. It was built by people like me."
Fernando Santos, senior editor of Luso-Americano, a Portugese-language newspaper in the Ironbound, said the neighborhood has drawn Portuguese immigrants since the turn of the century, although they were just a small part of the flow of Italians, Lithuanians, Irish, Polish and Germans who also settled in the area to work in the nearby factories.
The area, roughly bounded by the Passaic River on the north, Amtrak tracks on the west and Conrail tracks on the east, is still dotted with churches of various denominations that serve as a reminder of the earlier multiethnic influx, even though many of their original parishioners have long since left for the suburbs.
Mr. Santos said that the Portuguese began to arrive in greater numbers after a change in the immigration law in 1965 that gave preference to relatives of immigrants already here. But the largest flow began after the 1974 military coup in Portugal, which sparked a new migration of urban professionals, tradesmen and entrepreneurs.
By the mid-1970's, the Italian and Cuban shops that had lined Ferry Street gave way to a burst of Portuguese investment.
Today, out of about 40,000 residents who live in the modest brick and clapboard homes in the Ironbound, at least 40 percent are Portuguese.
And now Ferry Street is a blend of Portugal and America, where Dunkin' Donuts stores stand next to shops like Coutinho's Bakery and the Roque and Rebelo restaurant.
"In Portugal, everyone knows where Newark and New Jersey are now," said Alvaro Zanbujinho, who came as an illegal immigrant 10 years ago and is now a legal resident and co-owner of Delicias Bakery on Ferry Street.
For some immigrants, however, the passage to America has not been as smooth. For seven years, a man who would only give his name as Agostinho C. said that he and his family have struggled to survive in the Ironbound on his wife's $300-a-month salary as a baby sitter.
He came to the United States in 1987 on a tourist visa and easily found work in one of the dozens of Portuguese construction companies in Newark. But after a year, he suffered a severe head injury in a truck accident and has been unable to work. Since then, he spends most of his time with friends. "I never go outside of the Portuguese community," he said.
He remembered that when he and his family first came to this country, he sat down with his 8-year-old daughter and explained that they were in the United States illegally and warned her not to tell anyone.
"It bothers me, and it bothers her, too," said Agostinho, who is 37. "This is a very hard time now. I'm more worried about being illegal than before."
But he said that in another three or four months, the family will probably become permanent residents of the United States through the sponsorship of his wife's employer.
"I thought it would take three years, but it's taken seven," he said. "I feel good for my daughter. She will be going to college soon and she won't face what we did. Soon my ordeal will be over."
He said that since 1986, the economy in Portugal has improved and there are fewer and fewer illegal immigrants coming to the United States. Many have even begun returning home because of the prolonged recession in this country during the late 1980's and early 90's.
But even as the influx of Portuguese has slowed, the next generation of immigrants to the Ironbound have already begun to establish themselves.
Drawn by their common language of Portuguese, Brazilian immigrants have been flocking to the Ironbound over the last five to 10 years.
Brazilian shops and restaurants now dot the area, taking the place of Portuguese stores that have moved outside the Ironbound to places like Elizabeth and Union City.
"You see a lot of Brazilians now," Agostinho said. "They are going through the same phase as the Portuguese 30 years ago."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ferry Street, in the Ironbound section of Newark, is the home for many illegal Portuguese immigrants. The newcomers have turned the neighborhood into a bustling markets of shops, bakeries and restaurants. (pg. B1); Jack Santos, a Portuguese immigrant, as are many others in the Ironbound section of Newark, in front of his restaurant in that section. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Ironbound" shows ancestrial breakdown of the residents of Ironbound, along with statistics comparing the area with New Jersey with respect to median household income, education, and the percentage of owner-occupied homes. (Dr. Andrew A. Beveridge, Queens College, from the census) (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK (NJ); PORTUGAL; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; PORTUGUESE-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ENTREPRENEURSHIP IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); TRENDS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); REFUGEES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (53%); 

PERSON: DUNN, ASHLEY FERNANDO SANTOS (81%); PAUL QUINTELA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



416 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A Bad Week In the Asian Markets, Too

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Traders in the stock and currency markets of East Asia braced for another hard week as the aftershocks of Mexico's financial crisis continued to pound emerging markets in the region.
Despite economists' assurances that major Asian currencies were unlikely to be devalued and that markets in this part of the world bore little resemblance to their counterparts in Mexico and elsewhere in Latin America, investors pulled money out of Asian currency and stocks. 
 Traders said many large foreign mutual funds unloaded Asian stocks at the demand of investors, who suddenly wanted their money out of emerging markets. Monetary officials across Southeast Asia were forced to step in to support their currencies, and to issue denials that they were considering devaluations.
"Our situation is very different from that in Mexico," Indonesia's Finance Minister, Marie Muhammad, said Friday, when the Indonesian rupiah fell to a record low -- 2,230 to the United States dollar. "We remain with our prudent fiscal and monetary policy."
A banking official in Thailand, speaking on condition that he not be identified, put it more bluntly: "This is crazy. There is no comparison between Southeast Asia and Mexico. Our economies are well planned, and our currencies are properly valued. In Mexico, none of that is true."
On Friday, every major Asian stock exchange fell except those in India and Pakistan.
In Thailand, the market index dropped 5.8 percent for the week. The Thai currency, the baht, fell to a low against the dollar on Thursday before steadying at 25.1 to the dollar Friday as a result of Government intervention, including repeated vows that the baht would not be devalued.
In Malaysia, the stock exchange's composite index fell 1.8 percent on Friday, while in Manila, trading in the Philippine peso had to be temporarily suspended when its value fell by more than 1.5 percent against the dollar. The Manila stock index plunged nearly 6 percent on Friday.
Hong Kong's monetary authority moved to prop up the Hong Kong dollar by withdrawing nearly $1.7 billion from the British crown colony's banking system, forcing up interest rates to foil speculators.
The Hang Seng stock index slumped 2.23 percent Friday and 5.6 percent for the week. The drop was largely attributed to reports that China's senior leader, Deng Xiaoping, was gravely ill, including an interview in The New York Times in which one of Mr. Deng's daughters acknowledged that his health had significantly declined.
To be sure, the distress in Asian markets has been going on longer than the three and a half weeks since Mexico devalued its peso. 1994 was a bad year for most of Asia, with losses in Hong Kong, for instance, of 25 percent in market value since Nov. 1, and 40 percent since 1994's high mark in February. Most other Asian markets also suffered.
Economists said the movement of foreign money out of Asia in recent days represented an overreaction by foreign investors, who did not understand that there were more differences than similarities between the major economies of Southeast Asia and of Mexico.
While Mexico has huge foreign debts and weak exports, most major Asian nations have trade surpluses, strong export-led economic growth and effective economic planning.
The Thai economy has been booming for years, with growth projected at more than 8 percent in 1995 on the basis of strong agricultural and manufacturing exports. Thailand has been especially attractive to foreign investors because of the steadiness of its exchange-rate system, with its money pegged to the value of a group of foreign currencies dominated by the American dollar.
But the system was threatened last week, when the Thai central bank was forced to steady a panicky currency market by announcing that the Government would buy or sell either Thai baht or dollars at a set exchange rate -- 25.08 baht to the dollar -- in an effort to foil speculators driving down the baht's value.
"The Thailand of today is far different from many years ago," said Ekamol Khiriwat, chief of the nation's Securities and Exchange Commission, expressing exasperation at foreign investors' actions.
Out of fear that this week could also be volatile, the Government has announced that foreign exchange trading rooms in Bangkok can remain open until midnight "until the situation returns to normal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); 

CITY: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; MEXICO (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



417 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Heady Days for Young Conservatives

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Life around here is sweet these days for young Republicans.
Forget the aimlessness and pessimism that is emblematic of so many in Generation X. Since the Nov. 8 elections, conservative young Republicans have been euphoric and filled with a sense of purpose. For the under-30 crowd in Washington, at least, grunge is out and buttoned-down is in. 
 Seated under a portrait of his political mentor, David Wilson, 27, looks very like a young Bob Dole: starched collar, gray suit, shiny brown hair swept back. This is not mere coincidence; Mr. Wilson has spent the last five years working for the Senator, who is once again the majority leader.
"For somebody who started out in my background -- my mother's a teacher and my father's a truck driver -- I guess people would say I'm a natural-born constituent of the Democratic Party," Mr. Wilson said.
But he is most definitely not. While still in college, at the University of Washington, Mr. Wilson set his political course, and his career, by going to work for Senator Dole as a summer intern; he is now the Kansas Republican's legislative assistant for telecommunications, education and Indian affairs.
The ascendancy of Mr. Wilson and his eager young partisans is a familiar phenomenon to their Democratic counterparts, many of whom hold bittersweet memories of riding the crest of another wave that swept Bill Clinton into the White House not so long ago. Many found jobs on Capitol Hill, but just two years later, as the Democrats abruptly become the minority party, scores of these young people are either out of a job or fear they soon will be.
Chris Gillespie is one of the luckier ones. After serving in the Clinton campaign's press office, he landed a job as a research analyst at the Democratic National Committee.
Already a political veteran at age 27, Mr. Gillespie suggests that the current crop of young Republicans not put too much stock in the November election results or the prospects for a long tenure on the Hill.
"It wasn't as much of an ideological shift as the Republicans want to believe," he said, and offered a reminder to the new House Speaker. "Newt Gingrich and others have painted a picture of this place as a fat, disgusting institution. Now they're going to have to live with it."
By outward appearances, it is hard to distinguish the young Republicans from the preceding class of young Democrats. The newer arrivals are perhaps a little more polished, but like Washington's young Democrats they bear little resemblance to the shiftless, dispirited "slacker" image often assigned to their generation.
Mr. Wilson, who grew up near Seattle, the grunge capital of America, was never part of the slacker scene, whose icon was the late singer Kurt Cobain of the group Nirvana. "I don't think my parents would ever have allowed me to be," he said. "Kurt Cobain was in my class, then I think he dropped out or moved. I just thought he was strange."
A couple of miles west of Capitol Hill, at Farragut Square, Jane Cournan, a stock broker at Prudential Securities, is pleased with the new political landscape. "The elections showed that everyone wanted freedom back," said Ms. Cournan, 26. "The Government's been taking in billions and billions of dollars, and people aren't better off."
Yet Ms. Cournan sees herself as an anomaly among people her age, whom she regards as favoring President Clinton and a political philosophy more in tune with the Democrats than with the Republicans.
For her, being a Republican boils down to a basic understanding of dollars and cents. And more people would be Republicans, she said, "if people understood economics better, if it was a required course about raising interest rates and raising taxes and what it does to the economy."
Economics is of secondary importance to Jennifer Pyne, a 24-year-old kindergarten teacher at Our Lady of Lourdes School, a Roman Catholic elementary school in Bethesda, Md. For her, the underlying appeal of conservative politics is in the realm of social issues.
"I sort of want this nice, traditional little perfect family," she said. "I definitely think family values have declined. I'm not saying that every mother has to stay at home, but I think it's an important message."
Despite the enthusiasm of conservatives at their leaders' taking the helm atop Capitol Hill, liberals like Mr. Gillespie caution that the challenges of transforming campaign oratory into successful public policy are formidable.
"You know the old saying, 'Any jackass can kick down a barn, but it takes a real genius to build one up,' " he said. "They've kicked down the barn -- let's see if they can build a new one."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Republican victories in the November elections have heartened young conservatives, who find little in common with a popular image of their generation as downcast and despairing. David Wilson, 27, an aide to Senator Bob Dole, knew the late singer Kurt Cobain in school, and thought him "strange." (Amy Toensing for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GENERATION X (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (70%); 

PERSON: WILSON, DAVID; DOLE, BOB (SEN) BILL CLINTON (78%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



418 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Television;
In a Bid for Hits, Networks Buy Pieces of Rivals' Shows

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif., Jan. 13

 BODY:
When Jeffrey Katzenberg and Steven Spielberg turned up at an ABC news conference here this week to describe their plans for the partnership between the network and their new studio, Dreamworks SKG, they had only one announcement to make: The first show to be developed by the previously announced joint venture would be produced by Gary David Goldberg, the creator of "Family Ties," and it would be made for CBS.
CBS? Aren't those the wrong initials? Why did ABC put up $100 million so that Mr. Katzenberg and Mr. Spielberg (the third Dreamworks partner, David Geffen, was off putting up sandbags to protect his house in Malibu against the latest California monsoon) could turn out a show for CBS? 
 The answer has something to do with what time periods ABC had available and a previous commitment Mr. Goldberg had with CBS. But mainly it has to do with the changing economics of network television. Even though the show will be on CBS, ABC will own a share in its future profits.
It is all part of the often unpredictable television industry dance, where people are not so much changing partners as they are dancing indiscriminately with whoever seems promising.
Surprisingly, as Mr. Katzenberg said, "The possibilities in television are taking much more of our time than we first imagined they would." Mr. Spielberg has already begun working on a possible mini-series intended for ABC.
Another production company, Brillstein/Grey, also has a deal with ABC under which shows it produces will be co-owned with the network. The first show developed under this deal, a comedy tentatively titled "The Station," will go on the air soon -- on NBC.
Ted Harbert, president of ABC Entertainment, mused about this circumstance, where ABC can root for shows to succeed on other networks, and said, "It's incredibly bizarre."
Mr. Harbert schedules the network's programs, among them the shows that will compete for viewers against the program on CBS owned by Dreamworks and ABC and the program on NBC owned by Brillstein/Grey and ABC. "It's not just my parochial 8 to 11 P.M. schedule anymore," Mr. Harbert said. "It's a bigger business than that."
The biggest factor now affecting network programming schedules is the increasing opportunity for networks to take a financial interest in shows. Most shows make their biggest profits in syndication. Federal regulations that prohibit networks from taking a share in those profits expire in November.
As a result, the networks are adding more shows from their own production companies and, in ABC's case, from companies with which they are partners. The main suppliers of prime-time programs have reacted with alarm because they foresee shrinking opportunities to have their own programs seen by the public. They also question whether the networks will logically favor the shows they have a stake in every time they have to make a tough decision about which shows to keep and which to cancel.
These concerns were behind the decisions by Paramount and Warner Brothers to start their own networks this year. But those start-ups have only added to the worries of some network executives.
"It's difficult to deal from a business standpoint with suppliers who are also your competitors," said Don Ohlmeyer, president of NBC's West Coast division. "It's a little bit of a minefield we're walking through now. We're trying to figure out what the new ground rules are."
Mr. Ohlmeyer noted that some of the programs appearing on these fledgling networks were ones NBC executives had paid to develop, then decided they were not interested in and finally passed on. He questioned why NBC should absorb the cost of developing shows that may wind up in direct competition with other NBC programs. "I'm saying this changes the relationship" that NBC has with Warner Brothers and Paramount, Mr. Ohlmeyer said.
Fox Television is already in the position that Warner and Paramount are hoping to be in because Fox develops programs for every network but has also created a fiercely competitive network of its own. "We do very little business with Fox," Mr. Ohlmeyer said. "As small as our business is with Fox, it's actually too large. It should be smaller -- and it will be."
ABC has been the most aggressive network in investing in program suppliers to increase its chances of owning a share of a hit show. Such hits, like ABC's "Home Improvement" (owned by Disney), often generate hundreds of millions of dollars in syndication profits.
The incentive to have a stake in that kind of windfall is so great that ABC increasingly finds itself with mixed priorities. Mr. Harbert cited the example of "The Station," a show about an all-news radio station for which NBC executives have high hopes.
"The most fun I've had in a long time was working with Brad Grey on selling that show to NBC," Mr. Harbert said, referring to one of the partners in Brillstein/Grey.
He said the show's creator, Paul Simms, came to him with the idea for the series. "It was a 9:30 show," Mr. Harbert said. "I decided that given our strength in 9:30 comedies with 'Ellen' and 'Grace Under Fire,' I was not going to be able to take care of this producer at ABC."
Mr. Harbert also knew that NBC had two very attractive 9:30 time periods, on Tuesday and Thursday, that needed to be filled. So "The Station" was sold to NBC, where, Mr. Harbert acknowledged, it has a chance to hurt ABC's 9:30 shows. Theoretically, at least, the show could put "Ellen" or "Grace Under Fire" out of business.
"Sure it's bizarre," he said. "But frankly, I couldn't be happier about it because here's a chance for a show co-owned by ABC to go into a terrific time period and maybe make itself a hit." And then maybe make ABC's shareholders very happy by generating millions in syndication profits.
"You want to grow the company," Mr. Harbert said. That is apparently true even when it means an ABC-owned show does damage to shows not owned by ABC that are bringing in ratings for the network.
"Do I have a harder job now because I can be helping out another network with a hit show?" Mr. Harbert asked. "Yeah, I do. But it's fun."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Spielberg, left, and Jeffrey Katzenberg discussed their plans last week to join ABC in developing a comedy that will appear on CBS. (The Associated Press) (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DWA (NASDAQ) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (74%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (74%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (93%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL STEVEN SPIELBERG (90%); JEFFREY KATZENBERG (90%); DAVID GEFFEN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



419 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Comfortable Germans, Slow to Change (Especially if It Means More Work)

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DUSSELDORF, Germany

 BODY:
Life for the 16 million people in the former East Germany has been transformed since reunification in 1990, but change has come slower among the 64 million people here in the prosperous west despite warnings that their comfortable and costly welfare state must be cut back in a new era of global economic competition.
Pleas to work longer or harder are not easy to sell in a country where the 35-hour week is common, average hourly wages are higher than those in the United States and even first-year employees get four weeks' paid vacation. 
 The difficulty was made especially clear this month, when Walter Deuss, chairman of the Karstadt department store chain, suggested that retail stores be given the option of extending their hours to 8 P.M. on weekdays and 6 P.M. on Saturdays, bringing German hours closer to those in other European countries.
Store owners and employees balked at the proposal, demonstrating just how hard it is to get Germans to take another look at what Chancellor Helmut Kohl has called Germany's encrusted habits -- ways that might have worked during the cold war but that some now fear are threatening to choke economic growth.
"Nothing will really begin to change until Germans stop believing that the workweek should end at noon on Friday," said Hermann Franzen, who heads the 100,000-member German Retail Trade Association and owns a family porcelain store on the fashionable Konigsallee, the flagship retail street here in this city on the Rhine.
German retail trading hours are the most restrictive in Europe because of a 1956 law that was originally written to protect employees and to regulate demand in the booming postwar German economy.
But economic growth in Germany has been sluggish in recent years, and with unemployment at 9.6 percent of the labor force, advocates of longer opening hours suggest that they would stimulate domestic demand and create tens of thousands of jobs.
Since 1956, except for convenience stores in railroad stations, airports and gas stations, not a single supermarket, bakery, boutique or department store in Germany has been allowed to stay open past 6:30 P.M. on any weekday except Thursday, when closing time is extended to 8:30 P.M.
On Saturdays, except the four before Christmas and the first of every month, stores must close by 2 P.M., and shopping on Sunday is almost totally prohibited. In small towns, moreover, stores traditionally close for lunch.
"It is a typically German kind of law," said Mr. Franzen, referring to the limited retail hours. But like most of his fellow shopkeepers, he does not want longer hours because he is convinced that they would not bring in enough extra customers to cover the additional operating costs. And owners and employees alike worry that longer hours would cut into their time off.
"Germans need rules and regulations, and want a well-ordered, harmonious society, not the law of the jungle," he said. "They don't need more hours to shop, and my employees and I want time with our families."
Bernhard Jager, who manages the Saale Park shopping center near Leipzig, said he got official permission to open the center's 100 stores for a couple of Sundays last fall, but could not get the shop employees' union to permit it.
"We just wanted to show people on a completely free day what we had to offer," he said. "Normally, people have to rush out and shop in the last minute after they finish work."
Proponents of extending the shopping hours say the old law makes social change difficult. The law, for example, is one reason only 58.5 percent of the women in Germany hold jobs outside the home, compared with about 85 percent in East Germany before 1989. Moreover, for dual-income households with young children, it makes having to shop on Saturdays a family ordeal.
But in a German industrial and political culture that remains heavily patriarchal, shopping hours have withstood almost every attempt to extend them.
In 1988, the last time the shopping-hours debate produced change, legislators voted to permit Thursday evening shopping, overcoming resistance by shopkeepers and employees' unions. But they also cut back on Saturday hours to compensate employees.
With nearly 18 million unemployed in the 15 countries of the European Union, Mr. Kohl and his European counterparts called for more flexible working hours at their summit in Essen in December. They also urged a reduction of legally mandated surcharges on salaries, like social security payments and health insurance.
Even so, Mr. Kohl's Government coalition, re-elected with only a narrow majority last October, is not planning to try to change the law on retail hours, which can only be exteneded if the labor Unions and the opposition Social Democratic Party agree.
To solve the unemployment problem, labor unions and the Social Democrats have been fighting for nearly the opposite -- for employees to have a shorter workweek. Their logic is that employers would hire additional workers to make up the difference in hours.
Many retailers, too, are not convinced that longer hours will mean more jobs, or at least not many good ones.
Margret Monig-Raane, the acting head of the 560,000-member union representing German retail trade, bank and insurance employees, said: "After the Thursday shopping evenings came in, it was mainly 'bad jobs' that were added," meaning part-time jobs paying less than 560 marks ($360) a month, without the government-mandated social security, pension, or medical premiums that have to be paid on higher salaries.
Longer hours for full-time shop employees who now work 38.5 hours a week would also be "unsozial," she said, using a word often heard here to describe a range of economic offenses from uncompensated layoffs to reduced unemployment benefits.
Both she and Mr. Franzen, who heads the German Retail Trade Association, agreed that longer hours would not create many more jobs. If longer shopping hours did come to Germany, Mr. Franzen said he would just spread them around among his existing staff -- it wouldn't pay to add workers because consumer demand has been flat.
While the German economy is expected to grow over 2 percent this year, it has largely been driven by foreign demand for German exports. Domestic retail trade last year was only about level with 1993.
"People aren't buying much because they don't have the money," said Helena Bohne, who works in a women's clothing store in Bad Godesberg. "The politicians are saying we should get pay raises less than the rate of inflation to make Germany more competitive -- but it's the little guy who bears the burden, not big business."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "SHOPPING HOURS: Closing Times" compares Monday through Friday closing hours thoughout Western Europe. (Source: German Trade, Bank and Insurance union.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS EMPLOYMENT (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (75%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (71%); COLD WAR (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); GAS STATIONS (61%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (61%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R HELMUT MICHAEL KOHL (55%); HELMUT KOHL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



420 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: New Era for Orange County Jeremiah

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SAN CLEMENTE, Calif., Jan. 11

 BODY:
If anyone in Orange County has a right to say, "I told you so," it is John M. W. Moorlach. And while he may not use exactly those words, it is clear that he is thriving as the most obvious choice to be appointed county treasurer -- the man who foresaw the Southern California county's investment problems.
Mr. Moorlach, a Republican in a predominantly Republican county, lost his bid for the treasurer's job by a 2-to-1 margin in November to Robert L. Citron, the incumbent for two decades. Now, more than $2 billion in losses later, Mr. Citron has resigned, Orange County has filed for bankruptcy protection and Mr. Moorlach is negotiating with a new county Board of Supervisors, hoping to be appointed as his replacement. 
 Mr. Moorlach, who wants the job very much, would like to step into office on April 15. And Thomas Fuentes, the county's Republican chairman, said, "The clamor, if John Moorlach is not appointed treasurer, will be deafening."
Yet some people close to the negotiations say Mr. Moorlach's appointment is far from certain. One adviser to Orange County, insisting on anonymity, said Mr. Moorlach might be overstating the interest in him.
These days, Mr. Moorlach is making speeches, appearing on radio shows and trying to capitalize on his new image as a Paul Revere of municipal finance. He keeps "Don't blame me! I voted for Moorlach" bumper stickers displayed in his Costa Mesa office and readily ticks off the television shows he has been on -- with Peter Jennings, Dan Rather and Connie Chung. In a half-serious way, he suggests he might be a candidate for Time magazine's Man of the Year.
Last summer, gathering a brain trust of local accountants and investment managers, he led a shoestring campaign against Mr. Citron and his investment policies. Many people feared that his warnings cast a troubling shadow over Orange County and would cut off investment dollars. Now he is in the position of having been proved right through financial disaster.
"This is no way to be vindicated," Mr. Moorlach, 39, said recently in one of his frequent speeches -- this one to a gathering at the Pacific Country Club here of 100 members of the San Clemente Area Republican Women's Federation. "It's a sad day. Two billion dollars is an astronomical loss. But if there is a God, you can win by losing."
If named treasurer, Mr. Moorlach said, he will recommend using local financial experts rather than continuing with Eastern-based advisers like Salomon Brothers and Arthur Andersen and will use local brokers to buy securities instead of New York brokers. "We put a lot of Ferraris in a lot of garages in New York," he told the Republican women.
He also took aim at the press, citing the dominant local daily, The Orange County Register, and the reporter who covered his campaign as "not only missing the story but missing the Pulitzer Prize," and adding, "You can take a reporter to water, but you can't make them think."
When it comes to determining where Orange County should go next, he said the situation was unclear. He is generally against tax increases and holds to the supply-side economics view that reducing taxes will increase personal and corporate spending and help the county. He suggested that perhaps reducing the county sales tax by one percentage point might encourage purchases at stores there, though he said he had not yet run computations to test the idea.
A tax accountant, Mr. Moorlach has long been active in local Republican politics, appearing as a frequent guest on local cable television. He allies himself with the party's conservative side.
Last year, he preferred to run for the state Assembly, he said, but after someone else declared his candidacy, Mr. Moorlach was persuaded to challenge Mr. Citron, the lone Democratic official in the overwhelmingly Republican county.
At that time, no one else in the Republican Party seemed concerned over Mr. Citron's aggressive investment tactics, but they wanted him out because they felt that he was politically too liberal.
Once he sought office, Mr. Moorlach and his group began to look at Mr. Citron's investment policies -- primarily his use of borrowed money to make heavy bets on interest rates.
In an interview that began in his office in Costa Mesa and continued in his car as he went to San Clemente, Mr. Moorlach recalled: "I froze and asked, 'How are we doing this with public dollars?' Orange County was a major house of cards."
When Mr. Moorlach announced his candidacy in February, only one reporter showed up. Through the summer, as he pressed Mr. Citron, often unsuccessfully, for more information on the county's investments, he was assailed by Republicans and Democrats.
Indeed, the five county supervisors of the time, all Republicans, endorsed Mr. Citron, and the county administrator said Mr. Moorlach's assertions were "putting the taxpayers of this county in jeopardy" by impugning Orange County's financial reputation.
The Los Angeles Times editorialized, "The cloud drawn over Citron increasingly looks like a bum rap."
"I spent many sleepless nights during the campaign," Mr. Moorlach said. "People here were indignant. If I said anything, it was that I was trying to hurt the credit rating of the county or that I wanted to cause a run on the investment pool. But I was talking to all my investment managers, and they knew that this portfolio was going to blow. I felt a moral obligation to keep going."
Some of the strongest criticism came from the Board of Supervisors. Thomas F. Riley, its former chairman, said of Mr. Citron, in a quote that has since become famous: "I don't know how the hell he does it, but he makes us all look good."
When Mr. Moorlach, in May, sent a detailed letter about the portfolio's problems to Mr. Riley and the other supervisors, it was largely ignored. The death knell for his campaign came when Marian Bergeson, a popular Republican state senator who was running for supervisor, resigned from Mr. Moorlach's campaign committee.
"It was vicious," said Mr. Fuentes, the county Republican chairman. "There was a calculated and manipulative effort by key county government bureaucrats to create a charade that a challenge to the great Citron would jeopardize the credit ratings and standing of the Orange County treasury."
Even after Election Day, Mr. Moorlach kept pressing, warning the supervisors and trying to get his city where he lives, Costa Mesa, to pull some money out of the county pool.
When the county filed for bankruptcy in December, Mr. Moorlach said: "I had never cried as an adult, and I couldn't stop crying. I had spent a year trying to tell them, and now our county was bankrupt. Then I started doing the radio shows."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John M. W. Moorlach in his Costa Mesa, Calif., office, showing off one of the bumper stickers that underline his vocal optimism these days. (Scott Robinson for The New York Times )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (57%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (50%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SRL (50%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (50%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; BANKRUPTCIES; STOCKS AND BONDS COUNTIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); BONDS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; MOORLACH, JOHN; CITRON, ROBERT L JOHN MOORLACH (97%); ROBERT L CITRON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



421 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Synagogue Says Misleading Advice by a Brokerage Firm Resulted in a $650,000 Loss

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y., Jan. 13

 BODY:
In a miniature version of the investment disaster that plunged Orange County, Calif., into bankruptcy, a Westchester synagogue says it lost $650,000 from its capital campaign last year through investments in highly speculative securities.
But unlike Orange County, whose treasurer knew the risks he was taking, the synagogue, the Westchester Jewish Center in Mamaroneck, contends that its treasurer was misled by a Wall Street brokerage into thinking the securities were virtually risk free. The synagogue also says it did not know it would be charged more than $100,000 in commissions for the investments. 
 The losses represent one-third of the $2 million the synagogue had invested with the brokerage, Gruntal & Company, over 11 months, ending last August. The nearly 50-year-old conservative synagogue had planned to use the money -- which it had borrowed through a new mortgage -- for renovations to its chapel and Hebrew school, which were completed last fall.
The synagogue has asked a New York Stock Exchange arbitration panel to order Gruntal to reimburse it for its losses. A hearing is scheduled in mid-March. Like most clients and brokers, the synagogue and Gruntal agreed at the outset of their transaction that they would not sue each other.
Harry D. Frisch, assistant general counsel of Gruntal, said today that the synagogue's accusations were "completely unfounded."
In a statement filed with the exchange in November, Mr. Frisch said responsibility for the loss rested with the synagogue's part-time volunteer treasurer, Miles Federman, who authorized Gruntal to invest the money in mortgage-backed securities known as collateralized mortgage obligations, or C.M.O.'s.
Synagogue officials said the congregation -- with a membership of 450 families -- was not in danger of bankruptcy, considering that since 1990 it had been able to raise $3 million in pledges for capital improvements.
But the chairman of a synagogue committee investigating the matter, Marc Jacoby, said that the loss was substantial and that "the synagogue membership is universally outraged" at Gruntal for putting "funds intended to pay for the construction of a prayer chapel and classrooms into the most unsuitable, risky securities."
Since many of the pledges were not due until 1998, the synagogue took out the $2 million mortgage in the fall of 1993 to pay for the renovations as they were completed. The synagogue had hoped that by temporarily investing the money in securities, it could offset its interest payments.
In a complaint filed with the arbitration panel in September, the synagogue said its treasurer, Mr. Federman, had been repeatedly assured by a Gruntal broker, Erwin Roberts, that investing in C.M.O.'s -- pools of mortgages whose value is tied to interest rates -- was "safe" and would provide "high yields" over a short period.
Included in the synagogue complaint was a letter, apparently signed by Mr. Roberts in May, describing the synagogue's portfolio as having "the highest, safest income investments."
But in fact, collateralized mortgage obligations are "highly speculative" and similar to the securities that led to the bankruptcy of Orange County and the financial troubles of untold other municipalities across the country, as interest rates rose sharply last year, said Louis Lowenstein, professor of finance and law at Columbia University.
"They're about as predictable as which way the bird will fly when it leaves a tree," said Professor Lowenstein, who noted that he was not familiar with the details of the synagogue's investment. "That doesn't sound like anything remotely appropriate for a short-term investment."
In its formal response to the synagogue's claim, according to arbitration records, Gruntal said that Mr. Federman, a managing director and senior analyst in the electric, gas and water utilities section at Standard & Poor's, "was not an unsophisticated investor" and "was more than capable of understanding the nature of investing in C.M.O.'s."
Gruntal said that its broker, Mr. Roberts, had sent Mr. Federman a brochure titled "An Investor's Guide to Mortgage Securities," which explained that "the cash flow on mortgage securities is irregular."
But Mr. Federman said in an interview that he recalled seeing no such brochure and, as an expert on utility securities, was not familiar with mortgage-backed securities. Instead, he said, he relied on the advice of Mr. Roberts. Mr. Federman said he had done personal business with Mr. Roberts for more than 15 years and was responsible, in his capacity as treasurer, for setting up a synagogue account with him in 1987.
"They did not make it clear to me that there were any risks here," Mr. Federman said, adding that Mr. Roberts had "blatantly told me things that were not true."
The synagogue said it first learned it had sustained losses in May, when it tried to withdraw money from its account. It eventually sold its entire investment in August.
Mr. Roberts declined to comment today, referring calls to Mr. Frisch, the Gruntal lawyer, who said the synagogue had been "fully informed" of all risks and brokerage commissions. He declined to say how much the brokerage had charged the synagogue.
Mr. Jacoby, the chairman of the synagogue committee, said the synagogue supports Mr. Federman.
"No one," he said, "blames the synagogue treasurer, who is an unpaid volunteer, for accepting the recommendation of a broker with whom he had dealt for many years but who grossly misled the treasurer in this instance."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The $650,000 the Westchester Jewish Center said it lost in speculative investments last year was to be used for renovations to its chapel and Hebrew school. From left, Rachel Barish, 12, Mark Salama, 10, Andy Scopp, 11, and Zach Dennett, 10, participating in a service in the sanctuary. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER JEWISH CENTER (MAMAROCKECK, NY); GRUNTAL & CO; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) GRUNTAL & CO INC (70%); GRUNTAL & CO LLC (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER JEWISH CENTER (MAMAROCKECK, NY); GRUNTAL & CO; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; COLLATERALIZED MORTGAGE OBLIGATIONS (CMOS) FUNDRAISING (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (86%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BONDS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SECURITIES BROKERS (76%); LAWYERS (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: FEDERMAN, MILES; STEINBERG, JACQUES MILES FEDERMAN (90%); ERWIN ROBERTS (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



422 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1313 words

HEADLINE: U.S. IS CONSIDERING A LARGE OVERHAUL OF ECONOMIC DATA

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Federal statisticians have begun the most ambitious effort since the late 1950's to remedy mounting deficiencies in measuring the nation's economic performance.
Government and private analysts worry that the statistical system increasingly fails to capture the numbing array of new technologies and structural changes in today's $7 trillion economy. 
 Indeed, it is widely believed that Government tax and spending policies along with monetary regulation by the Federal Reserve have been thrown off to some extent by misleading data.
For example, had the "true severity" of the 1990-1991 recession been known earlier, the Bush Administration's Council of Economic Advisers wrote in January 1993, "policy might have been conducted in a different fashion" to counter it more aggressively.
And Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, told Congress last week that the Consumer Price Index overstates inflation by as much as 1.5 percentage points. With Social Security and other entitlement spending as well as adjustments in tax brackets pegged to the inflation rate, Republicans in Congress were quick to seize on the corollary -- by changing the index's formula, they could free $150 billion in Federal funds over the next five years without a single specific budget cut.
The private sector is also frustrated by various Government figures. "When you read that capacity utilization is close to its historic maximum, that doesn't mean much of anything," said Vladi Catto, chief economist at Texas Instruments, referring to a widely followed gauge of inflation potential calculated by the Federal Reserve.
To a large extent, the officials responsible for Federal statistics -- which cost taxpayers $2.6 billion a year to amass -- acknowledge the gaps and distortions and say they are working hard on improvements in a climate of rapid economic shifts and tight budgets for data collection.
Having last week formally identified gaps and shortcomings, the Commerce Department will decide in the next several weeks which statistics most urgently need repairs and will recommend specific remedies. In March, the department plans to convene a "town meeting" here of statistics users whose views will be incorporated in the plan.
The Labor Department, which sweepingly updated its monthly employment report last January, is well along with an overhaul of the Consumer Price Index, which would take effect in January 1998. And by this June it plans to switch methodology to make the closely scrutinized tabulation of payrolls more accurate by telling states which establishments to survey instead of giving them industry quotas.
"Our statistical system can only meet the expectations of its users by changing as rapidly as the economy it measures," said Everett M. Ehrlich, Under Secretary for Economic Affairs at the Commerce Department, in announcing in late December the review of its national income and product accounts, which make up the gross domestic product.
This is the set of figures, created in the late 1920's when goods were more important than services, that provides quarterly totals of economic activity and the degree to which it is expanding or contracting. The Commerce and Labor departments are the chief purveyors of nonagricultural statistics.
The struggle to keep up, Mr. Ehrlich said, means adapting to "the changing composition of the economy, the implications of technological progress, the greater level of global economic integration and a variety of other forces."
The problems cited by Mr. Greenspan and the others do not mean that the policies that follow from the statistics are topsy-turvy. Mr. Greenspan, for instance, did not say that he was conducting monetary policy on the assumption that inflation might be only half the rate published by the Labor Department. But others believe the overstatement has at least some effect on the central bank.
"It probably leads to slightly tighter monetary policy," said William D. Nordhaus, an economics professor at Yale University. Benefit programs linked to inflation are "surely" overly generous, said Mr. Nordhaus, who has pioneered development of alternative ways to measure national income.
So far, according to private analysts and a Commerce Department review team that published its findings on Wednesday, the official figures still reliably tell in which direction the economy is moving, whether the pace is accelerating or decelerating and whether it is high or low relative to the trend.
But these accounts involving total output of goods and services are not capturing the full effect of such things as computer software -- is it part of the nation's stock of capital assets? -- securities-market derivatives that vault international boundaries and advances in telecommunications technology that defy attempts at adjustment for the higher quality and lower prices.
The traditional metaphor of the gross domestic product as the bottom line on a cash-register tape tallying a cart full of toasters, haircuts, Cheerios and gallstone surgery "is becoming evermore inappropriate," Mr. Ehrlich said.
Joseph W. Duncan, a Dun & Bradstreet economist and a former chief statistician at the Office of Management and Budget and the Commerce Department, said, "Conceptually is where we have the trouble."
He pointed, for example, to Wall Street investment bankers who are working on deals abroad. "They are in effect exporting U.S. know-how, but that doesn't get measured," Mr. Duncan said.
Related to the problem of constructing the right statistical net is the frequency figures must be significantly revised. On Friday, for example, a big downward adjustment in retail sales for November contributed to a mood swing that prompted one Wall Street house to declare that "the Commerce Department stole Christmas."
The economists at the S. G. Warburg investment banking firm added, "If the latest retail sales readings are anywhere near accurate, which we doubt, then they put a very different light on the momentum of the economy at year's end."
Such skepticism came despite the Commerce Department's warning that the first sales results for each month are based on a small subsample of retailers, causing a large margin for error, and are thus subject to sizable revision.
Still, the department acknowledged in review documents that revisions to G.D.P. "appear to account for a substantial share of the errors in short-term econometric forecasts used for business and macroeconomic policy purposes."
Revisions of the quarterly figures averaged 1.4 points from first estimate to final tabulation during the 1980-1991 period but with no apparent bias in either direction. And officials say they are not at all sure the new conceptualizing now under way will result in higher, rather than lower, G.D.P.
"I see it as a toss-up," Mr. Ehrlich said, suggesting that underestimation for telecommunications and computer software might be offset by reduced figures for, say, education and health.
Officials also note that because of deregulation, they no longer get some information on figures that various industries were once required to supply.
As for the Consumer Price Index, officials at the Labor Department acknowledge possible overstatement of perhaps as much as five-tenths of a point a year, but they balk at Mr. Greenspan's suggestion that it may be three times that much.
"That's really very much driven by a belief that we miss a lot of quality improvements," responded Katharine G. Abraham, the Commissioner of Labor Statistics. She added that not only did she think there was "great uncertainty" about the magnitude, it was even possible that the C.P.I. might understate inflation since for each computer that becomes cheaper and better by the week there is probably some other product about which it is said "they don't make them like they used to."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Recession Revision" tracks revised figures released on the recession of 1990-91 show that the decline in quartely real gross domestic product was steeper than previously thought. Graph runs from the first quarter of 1989 through the first quarter of 1992. (Source: Department of Commerce) (pg. D3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TXN (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (54%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INFLATION (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); BUDGETS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); RECESSION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); BUDGET CUTS (65%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



423 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: Curbing the Costs of Job Injuries

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
Many employers are taking tighter control over the rising cost of treatment for on-the-job injuries. They are turning to remedies that they have long used to rein in all other employee health costs.
The cost of treating workplace injuries had risen to $28.39 billion in 1993. Medical spending in workers' compensation cases rose more than tenfold from 1970 to 1990, almost twice the rate of general medical inflation. 
 But even so, these costs were only a small fraction of overall spending for employee health benefits, so there was not great pressure to reduce spending. That was until the early 1990's, when workers' compensation jumped to 11 percent of employee health benefits. Alarmed employers and the insurance companies that provided coverage began trying to control costs by steering injured workers to networks of physicians that offer reduced fees.
Now some employers are going further. They are switching to managed-care programs that direct injured workers to health maintenance organizations, which promise stricter restraints on costs.
Raymond Graeme, a 23-year-old Epsom, N.H., iron worker, lost the use of two fingers of his left hand in a workplace accident last September. Until last year, he could have gone to any doctor he liked, but under a 1994 New Hampshire law, he had to go to a network doctor. Healthsource, an H.M.O. that handles workplace injuries for his employer, chose a doctor, who referred Mr. Graeme to Concord Orthopedics for physical therapy. All his care had to be approved by the H.M.O.
Proposals in Washington last year to combine workers' compensation with general health insurance encouraged the managed-care trend, and insurance companies and health maintenance organizations have been rushing to get the business.
"Everyone knows there's a huge opportunity out there," said Kenneth S. Abramowitz, a managed-care analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, a securities firm.
The Liberty Mutual Group, the biggest workers' compensation insurer, has announced alliances with H.M.O.'s across the country: Humana Inc. in Florida, Pacificare Health System in California, Blue Cross and Blue Shield in Massachusetts, and Healthsource in New Hampshire and Vermont. Liberty Mutual, which has about 10 percent of the workers' compensation market, said it was negotiating with other H.M.O.'s as well.
The Travelers and Metropolitan Life insurance companies are seeking new workers' compensation business for Metrahealth, their joint venture in managed health care. They are combining their physician discount networks and will offer Metropolitan's H.M.O.'s, said Patrick Kinney, a vice president of Travelers, which has about 5 percent of the workers' compensation market.
Big independent health maintenance organizations including Kaiser Permanente, FHP Inc. and Foundation Health Systems in California; Blue Cross associations in a number of states; United Health Care in the Midwest and Southeast, and United States Health Care in the mid-Atlantic states are all promoting workers' compensation services.
Value Health Inc., which provides managed care for mental health and pharmacy programs, last year bought CCN Community Care Workers, one of the biggest California workers' compensation physician networks. The Corvel Corporation, which monitors workers' compensation claims, has applied for a license under a new California managed- care program that sets rules for workers' compensation coverage. State officials said 26 such applications had been received and more were expected.
"The California market is going berserk," said David Appel, a workers' compensation expert in New York with Milliman & Robertson, an actuarial and benefits consulting firm. "Everybody is looking to negotiate managed-care programs."
Beverly Enterprises, a big nursing home chain that also operates physical rehabilitation units, jumped into the market on Dec. 28, announcing an agreement to buy Pharmacy Management Services, a company that operates a network of workers' compensation physicians and a mail-order pharmacy.
Robert Woltil, chief financial officer of Beverly, said it planned to develop the workers' compensation business to feed its rehabilitation units, especially in California where both Beverly and Pharmacy Management do considerable business. He said Beverly was not trying to compete with the insurance companies, which are customers of Pharmacy Management. "We want to offer them a one-stop shop," he said.
About half of all employers, including many who are self-insured, were using managed care in workers' compensation in 1993, up from 20 percent in 1991, according to a survey by the Towers Perrin benefits consulting firm.
But many states make it hard for employers to use managed care for workers' compensation. Many workers' compensation laws were enacted with labor union support before World War I, an era of relatively inexpensive (and uncomplicated) medical treatment. Workers were urged to accept help under the compensation laws rather than bring lawsuits, which even today can raise costs sixfold.
Workers' compensation is regulated by state laws that provide for medical care and stipends to replace lost wages. Except in Texas, employers must pay for the coverage, which cost $63.1 billion in 1993, including $33.1 billion in insurance company premiums, $20 billion spent by self-insured employers and $10 billion from state insurance funds.
The average cost of recent workers' compensation claims in California, for example, was $3,564, said Dr. Arnold Milstein, a medical consultant in San Francisco with William M. Mercer, benefits consultants. For workers who bring lawsuits, the average, including settlements and jury awards, was $26,393.
In New York, workers can choose any physician from a state-approved list, leaving employers little leverage to push them into managed care. In Connecticut, the employer chooses the doctor but the workers can change to another physician, though they may have to pick from an employer's managed-care list.
Employers in New Jersey control the choice of physician. At least 29 states, including New Jersey and Connecticut, have amended workers' compensation laws to help employers use managed care.
Just last year, Kentucky, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Virginia and New York enacted amendments "that promote managed care," a Blue Cross survey found.
James Ellenburger, a workers' compensation spokesman in Washington for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the unions were working with New York state officials and employers on a "limited pilot project" to try out managed care.
Unions have often resisted managed-care proposals. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. in Ohio, for example, unsuccessfully opposed changes last year intended to foster managed care.
Medical costs are now about 45 percent of workers' compensation, with most of the rest going for wage replacement. State officials and industry experts say managed-care programs can save 10 percent to 30 percent of the medical costs.
But Mr. Appel at Milliman & Robertson said many offered little more than access to a network of specialists in occupational medicine who charge discounted fees. Some go further and provide case managers who telephone doctors to urge them to hold costs down and arrange with employers to offer workers untaxing temporary assignments so they can return to work instead of just collecting wage replacement checks.
In a more tightly structured program, Pacificare, the big California-based H.M.O., is working with Liberty Mutual and others to offer coverage based on a per capita monthly fee. Charges can range from $1.50 each for bank employees in low-crime, low-risk areas to $150 for police officers and firefighters, Vicki Merrill, head of Pacificare's workers' compensation unit, said.
Florida recently approved managed-care alliances that 22 insurance companies have made with Florida H.M.O.'s and physician networks. The alliances will cut their charges to employers by 10 percent in expectation of saving at least that much in costs.
But as is the case in managed health care generally, some experts have their doubts. "There has been a lot of verbiage," said Richard A. Victor, executive director of the nonprofit Workers Compensation Research Institute in Cambridge, Mass. "It remains to be seen how much actual savings and reality there is."

GRAPHIC: Photo: More and more employers are choosing where workers must be treated for on-the-job injuries. Raymond Graeme was sent to Concord Orthopedics in New Hampshire after his fingers were injured in an accident. (Dan Habib for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Flocking to H.M.O.'s shows the results of a survey conducted by Towers Perrin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HUM (NYSE) (63%); MET (NYSE) (56%); HNT (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (64%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (64%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS923130 ADMINISTRATION OF HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAMS (EXCEPT EDUCATION, PUBLIC HEALTH & VETERANS' AFFAIRS PROGRAMS) (63%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

CITY: CONCORD, NH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: KAISER PERMANENTE (84%); LIBERTY MUTUAL GROUP INC (84%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (64%); HUMANA INC (63%); FHP INC (60%); METLIFE INC (56%); BLUE CROSS OF CALIFORNIA (52%); PACIFICARE HEALTH SYSTEMS INC (52%); HEALTH NET INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%); CONCORD, NH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS WOUNDS & INJURIES (93%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (93%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); WORKERS COMPENSATION BENEFITS (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (90%); WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (78%); ORTHOPEDICS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



424 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Japan Is Likely to Meet Goal on U.S. Auto Parts

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 15

 BODY:
Japan's automobile industry is almost certain to achieve a target set three years ago to purchase $19 billion in American-made automobile parts this fiscal year, Government and industry officials said.
The likelihood of reaching the goal became clear on Friday when the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association announced that for the first half of the fiscal year, purchases of American parts and materials spurted 32 percent to $9.53 billion, half the required total. 
 The $19 billion voluntary goal for the year ending this March was announced in January 1992 as an attempt to soothe relatiions in an unusually tense visit to Japan by President George Bush, who was accompanied by the top executives of the Big Three American car makers. If the goal is achieved, it would mean that purchases of American parts by Japan's industry will have more than doubled from the $9 billion recorded in the fiscal year ended March 1991.
Most of the purchases will be used in Japanese-owned automobile factories in North America, which have been expanding their production. Imports of American parts into Japan, however, are not growing as fast, reaching $1.5 billion in the first half of the fiscal year. Imports are supposed to account for $4 billion of the $19 billion goal.
The release of the new figures comes as American and Japanese negotiators get ready to resume stalled trade talks on automobiles and auto parts later this month.
One of the key American demands is for Japanese companies to set new, higher voluntary goals for foreign parts purchases beyond this year. Japan's five largest car makers announced new voluntary plans last year, but Washington termed them inadequate and has been pressing for more ambitious goals.
Walter F. Mondale, the American Ambassador to Japan, said in Detroit recently that Japan faced "serious consequences" if its auto makers did not agree to increase their purchases of American auto parts by March.
The fact that Japan now looks likely to achieve the $19 billion level, something that had been in doubt until recently, could be received favorably by the United States. But industry officials here fear that this will only embolden the Americans to raise the bar even higher.
Japan's Government has said it will not negotiate such targets because that is a matter for private business. The Clinton Administration is expected to talk directly to Japanese companies.
But the companies have been saying that they have no intention of increasing their plans beyond what they announced last March. Moreover, they say, it is inappropriate for the American Government to negotiate with them.
"It is not our intention to go into direct negotiations with the U.S. Government," Nobuhiko Kawamoto, president of the Honda Motor Company, said at a news conference on Wednesday. He said that the level of Honda's foreign parts purchases would be decided strictly on a business basis.
Still, the rise in purchases of American parts as the March deadline nears seems to lend credence to Washington's belief that targets, even voluntary ones, are effective in opening Japan's market.
Clyde Prestowitz, president of the Economic Strategy Institute, a Washington-based research organization, said the news was "very important because it means they are buying more American parts and that will create jobs here, and because it indicates that despite a lot of denials, targets and commitments we set do have an effect."
"The only question is, why is it not more than $19 billion? Just a couple of weeks ago, there was an announcement from Japan that the Japanese cars made in the U.K. have 85 percent European content. It's nowhere near 85 percent here, despite the $19 billion. It is more like 65 percent."
In the fiscal year that ended last March, purchases of American parts grew only 14.1 percent to $15.54 billion, making the $19 billion goal look unreachable. But as with semiconductors, Japanese purchases of foreign chips made a sudden sharp surge just in time to achieve the goal that foreign chips would hold 20 percent of the market by the end of 1992.
Japanese officials said that purchases of American parts had grown so fast because production of cars in Japanese-owned factories in the United States has been growing sharply as a result of a strong American car market. Also, the rising value of the yen has prompted Japan to shift more production to North America.
But auto makers say that it has been difficult to increase imports of American parts because an economic slump and the strong yen have slowed car production in Japan.
The strength of the yen would seem to make American parts cheaper than Japanese parts, but officials insist that this is not always the case. "At the moment, American parts are not very cheap," Mr. Kawamoto of Honda said.
He and others said that Japanese parts manufacturers had been forced by car companies to make drastic cost cuts while American parts suppliers, basking in strong demand in the United States, had not been subject to the same pressure.
Moreover, some Japanese companies say they want to localize procurement as much as possible. Toyota is planning to decrease parts imports in the future, a spokesman said.
The strong demand for cars and parts in the United States, combined with sluggish demand in Japan, has meant that the American trade deficit with Japan in the automobile sector continued to rise in 1994, reaching an estimated $36.1 billion compared with $33.4 billion in 1993, according to the Commerce Department. The automobile sector accounts for the largest chunk by far of the United States deficit with Japan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (80%); 7267 (TSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (80%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (80%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



425 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
U.S. Business Magazines Thriving on Foreign Ads

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY 

 BODY:
A significant increase in advertising from international sources like foreign governments, tourist agencies, banks and a range of industries helped make 1994 the best year for advertising pages in United States magazines in at least five years.
The principal benefactors were domestic editions of business magazines. Forbes reported a 46 percent increase in foreign ad pages last year in the magazine and its two supplements, Forbes FYI and ASAP, compared with 1993. Fortune saw ads from Asia increase 60 percent and ads from Europe rise 12 percent. 
 Business Week, which provides figures for ad revenue rather than ad pages because of its internal auditing procedures, reported an 18 percent increase in revenue from international sources last year. Foreign ads now account for 8 percent of Business Week's total ad revenue.
Among the foreign advertisers responsible for the increases in the three magazines were computer companies, airlines, insurance companies and makers of luxury goods.
Christopher Forbes, vice chairman of Forbes Inc., said banks, hotels, luxury travel and business travel were prominent categories for his magazine. A large part of the increase in foreign advertising in Forbes came from multipage supplements from government agencies and business groups in Ireland, Brazil, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and Hong Kong.
Stuart Arnold, publisher of Fortune, said the greatest increase in foreign ads came from Asia last year. "All of the increase comes outside of Japan -- Korea, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia," he said. "It's just company after company that you never heard of, selling services and making products."
David G. Ferm, publisher of Business Week, said that while ads from Asia showed significant increases in his magazine, "Europe was lagging in 1994." He said Business Week's international edition also had increases in overseas advertising. Fortune and Business Week have international editions. Forbes has editions in German, Japanese and Chinese, each with its own editorial material.
Comparing the ad pages of different publications is tricky because the methods of tabulating pages are not precisely the same. To complicate matters, ads sold out of the American offices of foreign companies usually count as domestic ads. An ad for Singapore Airlines sold by the airline's Los Angeles office, for instance, is not counted as an international ad.
Page counts from the Publishers Information Bureau, the industry's official measuring stick, are also misleading because they do not factor in discounts. One magazine may have a particular bonus plan that gives an advertiser a cash discount for buying a certain number of ad pages. Another magazine may have the same deal but instead of giving a cash discount it may provide free ad pages.
Peter Schoff, international advertising director for Forbes, said much of the increase in his magazine's foreign ad pages came as a result of an aggressive sales effort to expand into new foreign markets.
Forbes opened an ad sales office in Hong Kong and has been particularly active in the Pacific Rim. "Those markets are probably growing faster than any other place in the world," he said.
Mr. Schoff said Europe was coming back to life after a recession that lasted from 1991 to 1993. The same is true of Japan, he said, after a recession that began soon after the start of the slowdown in Europe. Forbes extended its sales efforts into India last year and has also been active in Mexico, Brazil and Argentina.
Judy Jorgensen, a spokeswoman for the Publishers Information Bureau, said recent figures showed ads for European and Asian cars to be up "dramatically" in magazines across the board through November, compared with the first 11 months of 1993. Ads for European cars were up 15 percent and those for Asian cars were up 9 percent. She said industry figures also showed that ad pages for foreign hotels and resorts were up 15 percent, while those for American hotels and resorts were flat.
Russia and China are being wooed by the American business magazines, but little business has been forthcoming.
"Our people are going into China to try and figure out how to organize things, but currently we do not have a structure set up," Mr. Arnold of Fortune said. "Russia is the same as China. They have no money and basically your strategy has to be build some awareness and circulation so that when they are able to promote products, at least you will be there."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C6L (SGX) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (94%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (94%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (52%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (93%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); BRAZIL (79%); THAILAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; ADVERTISING MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); AUDITS (72%); SALES & SELLING (64%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



426 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stance On Mexico

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15

 BODY:
The United States is setting "strong" conditions for a $40 billion loan-guarantee package to bail Mexico out of its currency crisis, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin said today.
Mr. Rubin, on the ABC program "This Week With David Brinkley," did not elaborate on conditions for the package, now being negotiated in an effort to restore investor confidence in the battered peso and shore up the Mexican economy. 
 In Mexico City, Finance Ministry officials said on Friday that Mexico would use future oil export revenues as collateral for the proposed loan guarantees.
The plan would help Mexico reschedule short-term debt by assuring investors that they would eventually be repaid.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (88%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CURRENCIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (84%); TRENDS (83%); EXPORT TRADE (52%); 

PERSON: RUBIN, ROBERT (SEC) ROBERT M RUBIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



427 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 68 words

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Manhattan Office Space

 BODY:
 In the charts, primary, or Class A, office space is defined as space in modern or renovated buildings that are centrally located and professionally maintained. Charts track vacancy rates and average annual rental rates for primary and secondary space in midtown and downtown. Also shown is the total space rented in the midtown and downtown regions during 1993 and 1994. (Source: Cushman & Wakefield)

GRAPHIC: Chart: New York City's commercial real estate market continued its long, show climb out of recession in 1994, real estate brokers say. Most vacancy rates dropped, and rents being asked for prime midtown space went up for the first time in five years. Lower Manhattan, particularly the Wall Street area, still lags behind other neighborhoods, however, as a lackluster year for the financial services industry was reflected in a stagnant downtown office market. Last month Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced a sweeping plan to revitalize lower Manhattan, proposing tax breaks and zoning changes intended to stop the exodus of companies and promote construction or redevelopment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Caption

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (57%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (87%); RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



428 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: Ford Plans Plant Expansion

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Jan. 15

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company is investing $400 million to expand production at its F-series pickup and Bronco sport-utility truck plant in Wayne, Mich.
The expansion, which includes a new body shop, is to accommodate production of all-new models for 1997, Ford, the No. 2 United States auto maker, said on Friday. 
 About 350 workers will be hired as part of the expansion plan, a Ford spokesman said. The hirings are part of a longer-range plan announced by Ford in August to add 900 jobs at the Wayne plant and increase annual capacity there by more than 15 percent.
The expansion shows that Ford is betting that demand for light-duty trucks will continue to grow even as interest rates rise. Light-truck sales in the United States last year accounted for 40.1 percent of all vehicle sales, up from 38.5 percent in 1993.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: WAYNE (MICH); UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; UTILITY VEHICLES AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); UTILITY VEHICLE MFG (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); MOTOR VEHICLES (88%); NEW CAR MODELS (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (87%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



429 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
Lost by U.S.: The Sense of a Right to Triumph

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:
THE END OF VICTORY CULTURE
Cold War America and the Disillusioning of a Generation
By Tom Engelhardt
351 pages. Basic Books/HarperCollins. $25.
In broadest outline, what Tom Engelhardt argues in "The End of Victory Culture" is neither startling nor particularly original. He writes that in the two decades between the end of World War II and America's entry into Vietnam in force, this country lost its culture of victory, which he defines as the sense of a right to triumph over American Indians, Japanese, Indochinese or any other supposedly lesser people. 
 His explanation for this loss can be boiled down to the creation of nuclear weapons, the war with the Soviet Union that stayed cold because of them and the outbreak of lesser conflicts in which their use would have been unacceptably disproportionate. To sum up his case in a tiny nutshell: the Japanese sneak attack on Pearl Harbor fit into our national fantasy of having settled the American continent in the face of the ambush warfare of Indians. But with the massacre at My Lai, we became the Indians and the Vietnamese the settlers.
As oversimplified as this outline may sound, Mr. Engelhardt is absorbing and provocative when he traces how these changes in attitudes were reflected in American popular culture, particularly in movies and comic books and in the way children play war games. Of the last he writes: "Crucial as it was to boys' lives, war play was so little in the thoughts or concerns of adults that, except as it is hinted at in memoirs of childhood (especially those of Vietnam veterans), remarkably little has been written about it."
In the dazzling weave of his thesis, the thread that stands out is one that begins with the middle-class exodus to suburbia in the 1950's, when, as the author writes, "the economy was churning out the most peaceable and the most warlike of big-ticket items," and the "country was reimagining itself as a magic kingdom, a cornucopic mechanism for turning out the world's play toys and pleasure environments."
Yet threatening this idyll, in his view, was what he terms the Great Fear and the Little Fear. The former was the McCarthyite overreaction to the menace of Communist subversion. The latter, as he defines it, was anxiety over the freedom of the "commercial media -- record and comic book companies, radio stations, the movies and television -- to concretize both the fantasies of the young and the nightmarish fears of grown-ups into potent products." Two examples of such potent products are rock-and-roll, which at first was watered down by white musicians, and the comic-book tales of horror created by William Gaines and Harvey Kurtzman, which, thanks to the protests of Dr. Frederick Wertham, the psychiatrist, were diluted into Mad magazine.
What Mr. Engelhardt's narrative argues is that the Great Fear, hysteria over Communism, led to Vietnam. And the Little Fear, anxiety about youth culture, was realized in the protests over Vietnam. As he writes: "Countless demonstrators sallied forth to a new sort of battle garbed in cast-off 'good war' paraphernalia -- secondhand Army jackets, bombardier coats, bush hats. Initially without significant access to the media, the young reconceived the images of their childhood on themselves. They became distinctly modernist endeavors, living critiques or parodies of the familiar, their own Mad magazines."
Now a lot of what Mr. Engelhardt writes here is debatable, even where he shades in the needed nuances. Some readers will doubt his contention that on the home front during World War II "the greatest fear of the American public, according to pollsters, was not defeat abroad but the possibility that peace might bring another economic collapse." Others may dispute his assumption that dropping nuclear weapons on Japan was an atrocity equal to the Nazis' treatment of European Jews.
No one will easily follow his contrived attempt to align the careers of two people who called themselves X: George F. Kennan, who made the case for containing the Soviet Union in a Foreign Affairs magazine article signed X, and Malcolm Little, part of whose strategy to escape containment by white America involved replacing his surname with X. And not a few readers will protest the impressions he somehow creates that American Indians were not that great a threat to European settlers, that there was little ground for concern about Communist subversion during the cold war and that nothing more than irrational rage lay at the root of the My Lai massacre.
In short, Mr. Engelhardt, a freelance writer and media critic whose previous book was "Beyond Our Control: America in the Mid-70's," neglects to emphasize the most obvious change that occurred during the era he writes about, namely the transition from territorial to guerrilla warfare. As he implies by his comments on George Lucas's film "Star Wars" and on the allies' execution of the war in the Persian Gulf, if a certain kind of enemy came along and posed a particular sort of challenge, the United States would re-embrace victory culture in the snap of a cap gun.
Of course, Mr. Engelhardt's book, with its subtitle "Cold War America and the Disillusioning of a Generation," is at heart an analysis of the author's own growing up. And since, as he reports, his childhood was marked by his father's failure to find a satisfying profession after experiencing success as an officer in World War II, the reader can at least understand the basis of his emotions.
Moreover, his thesis touches upon many curious things in American culture: the decline of the film western about the time of the Vietnam War, the rise of children as consumers, the invoking of Nazi war crimes instead of Japanese atrocities when America began to doubt its conduct in Vietnam and the refusal to demonize Ho Chi Minh the way Japan's World War II leaders were caricatured. Mr. Engelhardt's views are, of course, a particular way of seeing the world. But they offer the satisfactions of coherence. Despite his sometimes questionable premises, everything he writes is of a satisfyingly congruent piece.

GRAPHIC: Photo of Tom Engelhardt (Laura Dwight/Basic Books)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: END OF VICTORY CULTURE, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); VIET NAM (72%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS COLD WAR (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); VETERANS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); CHILDREN (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); POP & ROCK (63%); SUBURBS (62%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (60%); MUSIC (60%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (50%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; ENGLEHARDT, TOM TOM ENGELHARDT (90%); MALCOLM LITTLE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



430 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: CHAMPIONSHIPS: Sports of The Times;
In the Final Analysis, Jones and Cowboys Die With Their Boots

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO

 BODY:
OUTSIDE, after he accepted the National Conference trophy, Eddie DeBartolo's voice thundered through Candlestick Park's public-address system.
"We are going to Miami," the 49ers' owner said, alluding to Super Bowl XXIX, "and we are going to bring back another championship." 
 The championship that the Cowboys had hoped to win, the unprecedented "threepeat" Super Bowl championship that owner Jerry Jones had demanded upon hiring Barry Switzer to succeed Jimmy Johnson as coach after their clash of egos.
"We will win," Jones had decreed that day. "We must win."
But the Cowboys died with their boots. And while Jimmy Johnson, perched in the Fox network's pregame and post-game studio above the doorway to the Cowboy locker room, reacted clinically on camera, he must have been chuckling quietly about Jones's words that ignited their smouldering relationship despite a two-time Super Bowl reign.
"A hundred coaches," Jones had growled that March midnight in an Orlando, Fla., hotel bar, "could've won with this team."
Barry Switzer evidently was not one of the hundred. Not that Switzer should take the rap for yesterday's 38-28 loss in the N.F.C. championship game. Not even when his 15-yard penalty for bumping an official over the absence of a interference call on Deion Sanders wrecked the drive that might have pulled the Cowboys to within 3 points with more than 5 minutes remaining.
"I don't care if Bear Bryant or Vince Lombardi was coaching," wide receiver Alvin Harper said. "Those things happen."
Those "things" were the interception and two fumbles that enabled the 49ers to drop the Cowboys into a 21-0 hole in less than eight minutes. Even so, Jones, Johnson, Switzer and the Cowboys will always wonder if they would be in the Super Bowl again if Johnson were still the coach. Maybe those "things" would not have happened if Johnson still stalked the Dallas sidelines.
Jones, of course, wouldn't second-guess himself.
"There will be a lot of speculation about if Jimmy were still the coach," the owner was saying now in the Cowboy locker room, "but it doesn't influence me as to any decision I made. I recognized when I made the change that we might not get back to the Super Bowl."
Jones also didn't second-guess Switzer's penalty.
"I've never criticized or second-guessed what any Cowboy coach has done, whether it's play-calling or critiquing an official," the owner said. "I'm not going to start now."
But if Jones did second-guess Switzer, he really would be second-guessing his decision to let Johnson depart and hire Switzer.
Switzer, meanwhile, was growling about the noncall on Sanders, who was jostling Michael Irvin on Troy Aikman's pass near the goal line.
"If the ref makes the same call he made on Deion Sanders that he made on Larry Brown, it's 38-35," the coach said, referring to an earlier pass-interference penalty on the Cowboy cornerback. "Just treat us the same way. Sanders knocked him off stride. It was a mistake to give 'em 15 yards, but I make mistakes, too. The coach is part of the team."
Switzer complained about the soggy Candlestick Park grass even though it had been covered by a tarpaulin during recent rainstorms.
"That's a disgrace to play a championship game on a field like that," Switzer said. "Why didn't the league take charge?"
The N.F.L., not the home team, supposedly is in charge of the field for a conference championship game. Jones also was annoyed.
"I was told they couldn't find any dry sod," Jones said. "If they had put a little more sod in the middle where all that mud was, it would have been better."
But after dropping into that 21-0 hole, the word for the Cowboys was gallant, especially Emmitt Smith, their hamstrung running back.
"I pulled the other hamstring too," said Smith, who was favoring a pulled hamstring in his left thigh before toppling with a pull in his right hamstring in the final quarter. "It may have been a case of overcompensating. I put a lot more pressure on my right leg to save my left. Trying to get the job done on one leg is not easy."
Smith netted 74 yards on 20 carries, including 4-yard and 1-yard touchdown bursts. But after the 21-0 shocker, the Cowboys all but abandoned their running game. Troy Aikman, completing 30 of 53 passes, threw for 380 yards and 2 touchdowns, but had 3 interceptions.
While the 49ers found ways and means to live with the $34.6 million salary cap, the Cowboys didn't. They lost four starters from their two-time champions: guards John Gesek (to the Redskins) and Kevin Gogan (to the Raiders), safety Thomas Everett (to the Buccaneers) and linebacker Ken Norton Jr. (to, of all teams, the 49ers).
Now the Cowboys have more free-agent decisions to make on wide receivers Michael Irvin and Alvin Harper, tight end Jay Novacek, center Mark Stepnoski, defensive end Tony Tolbert and safety James Washington.
"I think the nucleus will be back," said Aikman, who is signed to a long-term contract, as is Emmitt Smith. "But to see what we accomplished taken away because of the way the bargaining rules came down is disappointing."
It's not always the offensive line or the defensive line that makes the difference now. Sometimes it's the bottom line that the salary cap creates. But with the Cowboys, it wasn't only economics. They'll always wonder if it was the egonomics involving Jerry Jones and Jimmy Johnson that made the difference.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Cowboys' Emmitt Smith sitting dejectedly in the fourth quarter after a hamstring injury forced him out of yesterday's game against the 49ers. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (78%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (75%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS; DALLAS COWBOYS DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (93%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS; DALLAS COWBOYS DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (93%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (75%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); ATHLETES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); 

PERSON: ANDERSON, DAVE JIMMY JOHNSON (71%); DEION LUWYNN SANDERS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



431 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
A 5-Part Eulogy to the War on Poverty

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
"America's War on Poverty," a five-hour series produced by Henry Hampton that begins tonight on PBS, is a eulogy to the nation's effort in the 1960's to raise up the down-and-out, particularly by giving poor people a voice in the way money from Washington was used. As seen in the glow of the memories of Government planners and community organizers, it is a story of idealistic innovators running up against the tough realities of politics in America.
The scene-setting opening hour, "In This Affluent Society," focuses on areas like Appalachia that remained untouched by America's postwar prosperity. Demand for coal, the area's main resource, was down, and automation was eliminating jobs in the mines. Miners tell of finding themselves suddenly without work or usable skills. 
 In the 1950's, 1.5 million Appalachians and 1 million blacks from the Deep South moved north. The program gives faces to the statistics. Some found new opportunities in cities like Chicago; others found just an urban version of poverty, discrimination and a desperation that was brought to national attention by Michael Harrington's influential book "The Other America: Poverty in the United States."
Mr. Hampton, best known for his documentary on the civil-rights movement, "Eyes on the Prize," again uses strong photographs and newsreels, personal experiences and evocative music. Now he shows how hard times sent the civil-rights forces into battle against economic as well as political barriers. In Appalachia there were violent confrontations between miners and mine operators; in big cities of the North there were demonstrations.
The first hour ends with the start of Lyndon B. Johnson's Presidency and the appointment of R. Sargent Shriver, much heard from here, to head what the President called an "unconditional war on poverty in America." But August 1964, when Johnson signed the Economic Opportunity Act, also brought the Tonkin Gulf Resolution, which was used as a basis for increasing America's military involvement in Vietnam. The coincidence, as the narrator suggests, would prove a dire one for Johnson's vision of the Great Society.
The strength of this melancholy retrospective is its front-line view of the domestic war; it brings us close to the action on the ground. Tonight's second hour turns to Mississippi, which one veteran of the civil-rights campaigns recalls as a third-world country. Campaigners tell how the Head Start program, which would change the course of antipoverty efforts, ran into the state's segregationist establishment, led by Senator John C. Stennis.
Tomorrow the focus is on Newark and the clash between Washington planners and their local allies on the one hand and the city's political machine on the other. Similar conflicts developed wherever money and power were at stake, notably in California, where Cesar Chavez began to organize migrant workers
Although critical voices are heard, "America's War on Poverty," which was paid for in large part by liberal foundations, is a tribute to the idea of "maximum feasible participation" by the poor in programs created for their benefit. Long after the considerable achievements and resounding defeats recounted here, the way that principle was applied in practice remains a matter of contention, along with much else about the commotions of the 1960's.
Today the war on poverty has become a war on welfare. You may be persuaded by Mr. Hampton that the idealists were done in by the vested interests, or you may skeptical of the pretensions of the Washington planners and the intentions of some power-to-the-people advocates, or you may simply find the social upheavals of the last 40 years beyond anyone's control. Whatever your reaction, the progression from the dream of opening up opportunities for the poor to the demand for cracking down makes this a troubling history of our times.
 
AMERICA'S WAR ON POVERTY
PBS, tonight
(In the New York area, Channels 13 and 49 at 9)
 
First two parts of a five-program series produced by Blackside Inc. and presented on PBS by WGBH/Boston. Susan Bellows and Dante J. James, program producers; Alison Bassett, supervising producer; Terry Kay Rockefeller, series producer, and Henry Hampton, executive producer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICA'S WAR ON POVERTY (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (77%); 

STATE: SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (93%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (PBS) PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); VIET NAM (77%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (57%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (92%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); POLITICS (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); MINE WORKERS (73%); RACE & RACISM (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); ENERGY DEMAND (69%); COAL INDUSTRY (54%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER EDWARD MICHAEL 'MICHAEL' HARRINGTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



432 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Usery and Owners To Meet Thursday

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

 BODY:
Resumption of talks in baseball's labor dispute is not visible on the horizon, but a meeting in Washington on Thursday may lead to a return to the bargaining table.
Bill Usery Jr., the mediator asked by the Clinton Administration to try to lead owners and players to a settlement, has asked the owners' 12-person negotiating committee to meet with him. After that session, he will decide if there is reason to summon both sides to a meeting. 
 "He wants to talk to the owners first to see if it would be useful to follow that up with a joint meeting, but there are no plans on that now," Dick Conn, a spokesman for Usery, said from Washington yesterday.
It was the owners' negotiating team that broke off talks on Dec. 22 after rejecting a new tax proposal from the players. The owners declared an impasse and implemented a salary cap the following day.
Whether the two sides return to the table to negotiate their differences on the game's economic system, the owners' negotiators will very likely ask for a meeting soon so they can present to the union their new rules for replacement players.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SALARY CAPS LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (76%); TAX LAW (52%); 

PERSON: USERY, WILLIAM J HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 1995



433 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: The Mark: Refuge in Risky Days

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 16

 BODY:
With political and economic troubles shaking markets not only in Latin America, but also in European countries like Spain, Italy and Sweden, investors in search of safety and stability have been fleeing to the German mark.
So intense has been the demand for the mark that an index calculated by Germany's central bank, pitting the mark against 18 other major currencies, soared last week to 198.6, its highest postwar level. This bolstered the mark's reputation as rock-solid and underlined the confidence investors have in German monetary policies. 
 The mark dropped slightly today, to 197.8. The index uses a base of 100 for 1973, illustrating that the mark's value has nearly doubled against a basket of other currencies in a little more than two decades.
"Risk-averse investors are pulling out of currencies they see are possible candidates for future depreciation and taking refuge in the mark," said Adrian Cunningham, a senior economist at the Union Bank of Switzerland in London. "People want a safe haven."
Analysts said the flight to the mark, which has included heavy selling of dollars, reflected the belief of many investors that Germany's central bank remained more committed to fighting inflation than even the American Federal Reserve.
The dollar drifted lower today in quiet trading, closing at 1.5289 marks in late European trading, compared with 1.5318 marks last Friday. It slipped to 1.5316 marks a few hours later in New York.
Currency traders' rush to the mark was also seen by analysts as a warning to central banks and governments that their policies aimed at combating inflation would be more closely scrutinized and that governments would be penalized for not reducing budget deficits.
Indeed, the last few weeks have provided roller-coaster rides for currency speculators in Europe, as investors fled the money of nations where the speculators thought that big budget deficits and political instability increased the likelihood of higher inflation in the future.
In Italy, the recent collapse of Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's conservative coalition sent the lira into a nose dive. It rebounded slightly today to 1,047 against the mark. The lira had closed Friday at 1,059.6 to the mark, before the Italian Treasury Minister, Lamberto Dini, was asked to form a government to succeed Mr. Berlusconi's.
In Spain, Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez has come under intense pressure to step down in the wake of allegations that his Government sanctioned hit squads to kill Basque separatists in the 1980's.
That crisis last week pushed Spain's currency, the peseta, down so far that many analysts speculated it would drop out of the European Monetary System. It gained only slightly today.
And in Sweden, the Government introduced a budget aimed at cutting back the welfare state, a week after Moody's Investors Service cut the credit rating on Swedish bonds, citing large-scale social welfare programs that it said were crippling the economy. But currency traders apparently judged the Government's step as too little, too late.
Those developments, coming on top of the dollar's weakness with the economic crisis in Mexico, generated the heaviest buying in months of marks, Swiss francs and Japanese yen, traders said.
Continued nervousness about currency instability in Europe and the problems that an excessively strong mark presents to the European Union were reflected today in a flurry of statements by European finance ministers and officials in Brussels, the union's headquarters, trying to calm the waters.
The Spanish Foreign Minister, Javier Solana, called on his countrymen to help the peseta, while Finance Minster Pedro Solbes said the crisis was over. But when journalists asked Germany's Finance Minister, Theo Waigel, whether the peseta was undervalued at its current levels, Mr. Waigel replied, "On the basis of fundamentals, you can argue that is the case."
There was even rosy talk about the possibility of a common currency among some European countries by the end of next year, apparently aimed at calming investors' fears and underlining the Continent's renewed economic growth.
Jean-Luc Dehaene, the Belgian Prime Minister, said the likelihood of monetary union by the end of 1996 was now "more realistic."
In order for European Union countries like Germany, France, Belgium and Austria to achieve monetary union, as called for under the Maastricht Treaty of 1992, a majority of members, meaning eight nations, must meet criteria that include budget deficits of no more than 3 percent of economic output, and total debt equal to no more than 60 percent of their gross domestic products. Greater tax revenue from strong economic growth means that the governments can more easily reach those goals.
Even if the markets calm down this week, as many predict, analysts warn that investors, after losing heavily in Mexico, Argentina, Italy, Spain and Sweden recently, will insist on credit quality in the future.
Brian Mullaney, chief international economist at Morgan Stanley's London office, said: "Investors will be looking at government reforms to fight inflation and bring down budget deficits in all countries, not just Mexico and Latin America, but in Spain, Italy, Sweden and countries like Thailand. Will governments continue down the road that will insure low inflation?"
Germany, Mr. Mullaney said, "is one of those countries where you are going to be comfortable that inflation will stay low."
"The Bundesbank," he said, "provides you that."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (69%); UBS (NYSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (94%); ITALY (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SWEDEN (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BUNDESBANK UBS AG (69%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BUNDESBANK FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; EUROPE; LATIN AMERICA; GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (94%); ITALY (94%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); SWEDEN (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES GERMAN MARK (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); BONDS (78%); INFLATION (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); TRENDS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); CREDIT BUREAUS (61%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (61%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (60%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



434 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 
Alan Greenspan is stepping into the limelight with greater frequency, pushing Congressional leaders to support the rescue plan for Mexico and volunteering solutions to the budget deficit. While previous Federal Reserve chairmen have preferred to keep their policy roles behind the scenes, Mr. Greenspan has been willing to take public stands on issues beyond the Fed's usual direct concerns. That exposure carries risk for a central bank known for its status apart from the executive branch. [Page D1.]
The life insurance industry is trying to improve its image with a new booklet that explains the purchase of life insurance. [D2.] 

International
 
Mexican markets showed a nervousness the day before an auction of Government bonds. But discussions about United States loan guarantees may be more crucial to Mexico's stability. International bankers say Mexico is likely to use the guarantees to raise a substantial sum on the international bond markets. [D1.]
The peso's fall is being felt by Texas retailers near the border, who have seen their sales tumble. Before the devaluation of the peso, Mexican shoppers had turned the Rio Grande Valley into one of the fastest-growing retail markets in the United States. [D1.]
 
Markets
 
The mark has been flexing its muscles, gaining strength from the economic troubles of Spain, Italy and Sweden. Investors have been fleeing countries where they see big budget deficits and political instability for the safety of the mark, underlining the confidence investors have in German monetary policies. [D1.]
Blue-chip stocks surged in heavy trading to their highest level since October. The rally was spurred by traders' new expectations that the Federal Reserve would moderate or even forgo an increase in interest rates. The Dow gained 23.88 points, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 rose 3.41 points, to 469.38. [D8.]
Natural gas prices jumped after forecasts for colder weather this week. Cotton and copper prices fell sharply. [D18.]
 
Companies
 
A dispute between Orange County and Merrill Lynch has turned to the collateral held by the brokerage firm for loans made to the Southern California county. The county seeks the ability to draw against that collateral, should it win its lawsuit against Merrill. Asserting that it did not sell the collateral, Merrill cited its position as evidence of good faith with a longtime client. [D2.]
Several days before a Hartz Mountain bid, Pet Products' chief executive bought 138,285 shares of his company's stock. [D2.]
Shoney's announced a shake-up in its top ranks. The company also plans to sell two restaurant chains and a food-service subsidiary to focus on its namesake family-dining chain. [D4.]
ENI is counting on privatization without more political hurdles. Streamlining has helped to stanch losses at the Italian oil and chemicals conglomerate as it attempts a turnaround. [D4.]
Eddie Bauer is out of the woods. The apparel retailer, known for its outdoor-oriented casual wear, plans to add dress clothes to cash in on what it sees as a consumer trend toward dresswear for the corporate workplace that is more casual. [D4.]
 
Today's Columns
 
Cyrk investors were warned of a slowdown, and still they bought in a December offering. Cyrk shares have since plunged as it became apparent that Philip Morris -- the company's top customer -- was scaling back orders of Marlboro promotional items. But insiders who already sold did well, including O. J. Simpson, a former director. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
Can paint be sold as hope in a can? That's the challenge ICI North America faces as it introduces a higher-priced paint brand called Dulux in the United States. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D19.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (76%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (76%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (77%); NATURAL GAS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (75%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); AUCTIONS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); RETAILERS (72%); DEVALUATION (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (69%); CHEMICALS (63%); CHEMICALS MFG (63%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (62%); COPPER MARKETS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



435 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Mexican Stocks Rise on Eve of Bond Sale

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 16

 BODY:
The Mexican stock market staged another modest rally today but most investors were more preoccupied with Tuesday's scheduled auction of $300 million in Government bonds, which will be widely interpreted as a gauge of confidence in Mexico's ability to recover from the country's economic crisis.
The Mexican market's price index rose 1.19 percent today, closing at 2,243. Mexican stocks traded in New York did not fare as well. Telefonos de Mexico, the leading Mexican depository receipt traded in the United States, was down 87.5 cents, closing at $33.75. 
 The peso lost about 3 percent of its value against the dollar, partly on fears of low demand at Tuesday's bond auction. The Bank of Mexico reported the peso's final exchange rate today as 5.48 to the dollar, a slight drop from this morning's opening rate of 5.35.
All the markets showed a nervousness about the approaching auction.
"People are focusing a lot on tomorrow and perhaps that's a bit misguided," Brian M. Barish, head of emerging market research at Lazard, Freres & Company in New York, said today.
Mr. Barish said the key issue now in regard to the ability of Mexico to pay off its obligations was not the auction but the huge package of loan guarantees for as much as $40 billion that the United States said it was willing to provide. President Clinton and Congressional leaders announced their support for the guarantees last week.
The Finance Minister, Guillermo Ortiz; the president of Mexico's central bank, Miguel Mancera Aguayo, and the Foreign Minister, Jose Angel Gurria, flew to Washington on Sunday to join discussions about the loan guarantees.
International bankers say Mexico is likely to use these guarantees to raise a substantial sum on the international bond market for use in trying to stabilize the peso and paying off maturing foreign debts.
A crucial issue to be determined is how much the United States Government will charge Mexico for guaranteeing the loans. United States officials, speaking on condition that they not be identified, said a proposal was being considered to charge Mexico an additional fee on top of the risk premium. The officials said the Mexicans might have some flexibility in choosing the duration of the loans issued with United States backing.
In New York, Citibank said today that it expected to have firm commitments for a new $3 billion line of credit for Mexico from a group of major international banks by the end of this week.
The bank credit is part of an $18 billion rescue package announced after Mexico floated the peso. That package also includes a $9 billion credit from the United States, $1 billion from Canada and $5 billion from the Bank for International Settlements.
A vice chairman of Citibank, William R. Rhodes, met on Friday evening with President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon in Mexico City as well as with Mr. Ortiz and Mr. Mancera. Mr. Rhodes said in a statement today that the Mexican leaders "expressed their determination to implement rapidly Mexico's economic program."
Auctions of Mexican Government bonds have gone poorly since the peso was devalued on Dec. 20, suggesting that investors are unwilling to keep their money in Mexico.
The bonds are denominated in pesos but pegged to prevailing peso-dollar exchange rates. The enormous amount of bonds outstanding -- about $28 billion -- and the economic uncertainty in Mexico have led many investors to fear that so many bonds will be redeemed when they come due in the coming months that Mexico might not be able to meet its obligations.
To persuade investors who hold maturing bonds to renew them instead of withdrawing their money, the Government raised interest rates on the bonds to almost 20 percent last Tuesday. But even that was not enough to sway investors.
The Governmment sold fewer than 20 percent of the bonds it offered last Tuesday, touching off near-panic selling on the Mexican stock exchange. Since then, investors have been reassured by the loan guarantees from the United States.
The trading day began in Mexico today with substantial losses, especially after the largest banking-financial group, Banamex-Accival, released fourth-quarter results that showed an extraordinary loss of 1.8 billion pesos. The loss resulted from the devaluation, which shaved more than a third off the peso's value.
The Banamex-Accival report is one of the first from a major Mexican company to reflect fully the impact of the current crisis.
But Kenneth R. James, senior analyst at James Capel Emerging Markets Sales in New York, said that after the initial disappointment, investors changed their reaction to the report. "They were disappointing numbers, but the bank took charges where it could and put itself in a positive position" for the rest of the year, Mr. James said.
The Mexican market also reacted positively to developments in the southern state of Chiapas, where rebels sat down with Government officials on Sunday night to discuss the resumption of peace talks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (92%); BK (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (92%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (68%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (57%); BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; CREDIT; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOLSA STOCK INDEX (MEXICO) BONDS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TRENDS (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



436 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: North of the Border, Peso's Drop Is Hurting Stores

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Jan. 13

 BODY:
When Bernard L. Levin filled the racks with winter jackets at his Tienda Amigo store a block from the border he had no idea that he was a currency speculator.
But more than two-thirds of his customers come across the border bridge carrying pesos whose value has shriveled. His jackets still hang undisturbed. His saleswomen straighten and tidy counters untouched since their last sweep. His markdown signs seldom stop, or even slow, anyone passing by outside. 
 "I'll tell you," said Mr. Levin, with a strained, sardonic grin. "Business is terrific and one of these days it's going to get better. When a person has to pay almost double for his merchandise overnight and doesn't have much to begin with, they don't buy anything. Our sales are down considerably. Way, way down."
Hordes of Mexican shoppers from near and far had turned the Rio Grande Valley into one of the fastest-growing retail markets in the United States, but they now have decided to stay home and pray for a peso recovery. Those who still cross the border spend less. Some Americans, meanwhile, are heading into Mexico now that the bargains on liquor and medicines are even better.
Texas retailers console themselves by saying how much worse the peso's collapse was in 1982. Some Mexican customers now have American bank accounts and investments or confidence that they can raise their prices and fees fast enough in pesos to compensate for lost purchasing power.
But retailers who are used to double-digit annual sales increases have started this year with sales that are at best flat and in most cases down.
Just a few weeks ago Don Parker, manager of the Sears, Roebuck store in McAllen, Tex., welcomed Sears's top executives, presenting them with binders of charts, maps and articles pointing to an even brighter future. The McAllen area has added two million square feet of store space, equal to 20 stores like his, in just two years.
"Now I am flat since New Year's Day," he said as he scanned spring clothing crowding his leftover winter stock. "I've never been flat." The city of McAllen, fearing lower sales tax receipts, is likely to postpone buying some municipal vans.
The Sears store was still among the busier at La Plaza Mall, the region's largest. Ramiro T. Hernandez, a lawyer from across the border in Matamoras, stood at the entrance, looking over a flier and noting the discounts on wrench sets.
"It was cheaper at three pesos, but it's still O.K.," he said, reflecting on an exchange rate now close to six pesos to the dollar. "I can raise my fees and it won't bother me."
Mr. Parker is all for him, hoping that within a few months Mexican inflation will push peso prices back up and shoppers back across the Rio Grande.
But the border economy leans so heavily on Mexico that residents on the Texas side are also turning more conservative. Oscar Flores found his mind wandering from the Sears display of power tools to the homes he wasn't building. He had designed houses in McAllen for two clients from Reynosa, across the border, but they had just called telling him to hold off on the building.
"It's a mess," he said. "It will not be the year I'm waiting for."
At La Plaza Mall even the most prosperous Mexican shoppers readily agreed. Few were to be found under the crystal chandeliers at Jones & Jones, calculating how many bushels of pesos they would need for the $3,510 Judith Lieber hand-beaded evening bag or the $72,000 Lalique crystal table.
"We're not shopping," said Griselda Escobar, as she dawdled with her husband and two daughters around the Ferragamo and Bruno Magli shoes. They had flown up from near Mexico City for a sale that offered them few bargains. "We're just looking -- at the prices and the conversion," she said.
"Yesterday it was 5.80," her husband, Gabriel, said.
"This morning, 5.90," Mrs. Escobar added.
Mexicans are no less currency-conscious elsewhere along the border. In downtown El Paso, some stores have been closing early and a few have even taken holidays, said Irma Gutierrez, manager of the Payless Shoe Source close to the international bridge. Her store is normally among the chain's 10 busiest, but even after extending a clearance sale for two weeks, her store missed sales targets by about 40 percent last week and 53 percent the week before.
With the peso economy of Texas now stretching hundreds of miles from the border, even the Galleria in Houston felt the absence of Mexican shoppers.
For Mexican stores that cater to Texans, however, the Christmas season continues without end. "Now Your Dollar Buys More," shouted the block letters on the Garcia's advertisement in The Brownsville Herald.
For Winter Texans, retirees who migrate from the North, Garcia's, over the border in Matamoras, was by last week a favorite roost.
"This is the same as in the United States?" asked Eileen Schultz as she piled asthma and arthritis medicine for her and her husband on the pharmacy counter.
"The same," responded the pharmacist.
"You're sure it's the same thing?" she persisted.
"Yes, I'm sure," said Emigdio Manuel Garcia, behind the counter but in a business suit rather than a white coat. "I'm the owner."
Her husband, Art, laid a $100 bill on the counter and got back change. "It went down 40 percent," he said. "We can buy a year's supply for what a month costs in the United States."
Around the store, peso shock was working in reverse. Becky Gibson seldom buys silver, but a necklace and earrings caught her eye. "When they told me how much they were -- $25 -- I thought, 'Why not?' "
Although most merchants on the Texas side still take pesos, the rates often cause buyers to put their selections back.
Mr. Levin, the Brownsville store owner, said he guessed that some Mexicans might simply go downscale. But because he fills his store with manufacturers' remainders and seconds, the only places on the Texas side able to beat his prices -- $12.97 for a winter jacket, $1.97 for a sweatshirt -- are the used clothing shops common along the border.
At Casa Reyna, a few blocks away, nothing on the pipe racks or in the bins costs more than a few dollars. Clothing that arrives in bulk every week goes for $2.75 a pound on Monday, falling to $1 by Saturday.
though usually four-fifths of the shoppers are Mexican, all five who were pawing through the piles one afternoon last week were American. For many Mexicans with watery pesos, even American castoffs are now too dear.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Business in Texas border towns has slowed since the peso fell, making American goods more expensive for Mexicans. Bernard Levine at his Tienda Amigo store in Brownsville was unable to move his winter jackets. (Brad Doherty for The New York Times)(pg. D1); The falling peso has hurt border stores in Texas. Don Parker, manager of Sears in McAllen, said business has been flat since New Year's. (Brad Doherty for The New York Times)(pg. D5)
 
Map of Texas showing location of Brownsville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: MCALLEN, TX, USA (94%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (94%); TEXAS, USA (94%); MCALLEN, TX, USA (94%); BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; SALES; INDUSTRY PROFILES CURRENCIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RETAIL SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); SALES TAX (68%); TRENDS (68%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



437 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Dow Up 23.88 Points, to 3,932.34, in Heavy Trading

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market rose for a second day in heavy trading yesterday, hitting its highest level in more than two months. Stock traders persisted in their hope that the Federal Reserve would moderate or even forgo an expected increase in interest rates, which would mean a boon to stocks.
Indeed, a respected market strategist, Michael Metz of Oppenheimer & Company, doubled his model stock allocation to 40 percent from 20 percent yesterday, halving his cash allocation to 20 percent. 
 Mr. Metz also said that in contrast to 1994, when many stocks made their gains for the year in the first few months, "all of 1995's movement may come in the next few weeks."
Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose to its highest point since Oct. 19. It advanced 23.88 points, to 3,932.34, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 rose 3.41 points, to 469.38, its highest point since Oct. 31. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 6.00 points, to 768.16, its highest level since Nov. 15.
Few traders were on the sidelines yesterday, in part because some closely followed corporations report earnings this week. The Intel Corporation will report today and the Microsoft Corporation tomorrow, probably after the market closes, said Tim Grazioso, manager of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald and Company. "You got people paying attention because of that," he said.
At 315 million shares, volume on the New York Stock Exchange was unusually heavy, both for a Monday and a Government holiday. The bond market and some important foreign markets, like Tokyo, were closed.
On Friday, the Government reported a slump in December retail sales, which shook traders' assumption that Fed officials would again raise rates at their policy meeting that begins Jan. 31. The Fed has raised rates to slow an apparently overheating economy, but Friday's report was one of the first major indicators that the economy may already be cooling.
Still, the Fed may still find inflation in data yet to come this month, such as December industrial production and factory use, scheduled for release this morning; November business inventories, set for Wednesday, and December housing starts, to be released on Friday.
Also, higher prices may simply be slow in appearing. For example, Goodyear Tire and Rubber and other tire makers rallied yesterday after Goodyear said it would raise tire prices 3 percent, effective Feb. 15.
At least one thing is certain, Mr. Metz said, and that is that the crisis in Mexico has upended traders' and investors' assumptions about emerging markets around the world, even those in Asia. Much of that disappointed money will move to American stocks, he said.
A wide variety of interest-rate- sensitive stocks rose yesterday, including Wells Fargo & Company and First Interstate Bancorp. Even Wall Street firms, whose businesses have been savaged by rising interest rates, saw their share prices rise. Dean Witter, Discover & Company rose 1 5/8 to 36 1/4; Salomon Inc. rose 1 3/8, to 38 5/8, and Merrill Lynch & Company rose 1, to 37 5/8.
Perhaps most tellingly, traders bid up the prices of two of the stocks most sensitive to interest rate movements: The Federal National Mortgage Association -- also known as Fannie Mae -- the nation's largest source of home mortgages, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, which creates securities out of home mortgages. Fannie Mae rose 5/8, to 72 1/4, and Freddie Mac rose 1/2, to 52 7/8. Traders had bid down the shares on Thursday, when Fannie Mae reported lower-than-expected earnings.
One of the day's biggest gainers was Grey Advertising Inc., which rose 15, to 164, after an stock strategist with Oppenheimer & Company said in an interview with Barron's that the shares were undervalued. Grey said in December that it would take a $35 million noncash write-off that would lead to a loss for the 1994 year but improve its balance sheet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GT (SWX) (82%); GT (NASDAQ) (82%); GT (BRU) (82%); INTC (NASDAQ) (68%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (68%); WFC (NYSE) (61%); MS (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (82%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (82%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (82%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (82%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (82%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (72%); INTEL CORP (68%); MICROSOFT CORP (68%); WELLS FARGO & CO (61%); MORGAN STANLEY (60%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); TIRES (85%); BOND MARKETS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); HOUSING STARTS (72%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); TIRE MFG (66%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); RETAIL SALES (50%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY MICHAEL METZ (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



438 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Lately, a Much More Visible Fed Chief

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16

 BODY:
When the Clinton Administration announced its latest package of assistance to Mexico on Thursday, two men emerged from the back rooms where the deal was being shaped to explain the plan to the White House press corps. One was the new Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin. The other, however, has no formal connection to the Administration: Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve.
Officials at the notoriously reticent Federal Reserve say they have seldom seen anything like it. Not only did Mr. Greenspan join President Clinton at the White House to persuade Congressional leaders to accept the plan, he also went on to plead to a large gathering of senators and representatives to pass the necessary legislation quickly. 
 And that is not the only time recently that Mr. Greenspan has made himself so uncharacteristically visible. Last Tuesday, he volunteered a specific solution to the nation's budget problems at a joint hearing of the House and Senate Budget Committees. Mr. Greenspan proposed that the Federal deficit could be reduced tens of billions of dollars a year by cutting the annual increases for inflation that are paid to Social Security recipients and veterans with Government pensions.
While Federal Reserve chairmen have long played key policy-making roles behind the scenes, they have usually sought to avoid the political limelight. Unlike Paul A. Volcker, for example, who almost always confined his public statements to matters of monetary policy or broad statements on the budget and economy, Mr. Greenspan is operating much more openly.
Moreover, he is even more visible these days than in previous years. The day after the stock market fell 508 points on Oct. 19, 1987, for example, Mr. Greenspan canceled a long-planned appearance after traveling the previous evening all the way to Dallas for a speech. He returned to Washington, where the Fed did nothing more in public than issue a one-sentence statement to help calm the markets.
At the time, Mr. Greenspan slipped in and out of the White House for many meetings on the market crash that were not publicly disclosed. "He was there," said a Fed official who insisted on anonymity, "but he wasn't this visible."
Mr. Greenspan declined to comment on his heightened activism of the last week. But his willingness to become more visible coincides with deep worries at the Fed about the threat to international financial stability from Mexico's currency crisis, and with frustration at the Fed about the reluctance of Congress to reduce the budget deficit. The broad respect and influence that Mr. Greenspan commands among his fellow Republicans have given him much more power and credibility now that Republicans control both houses of Congress for the first time in 40 years.
Mr. Greenspan's increasing political exposure may carry some risk for a central bank known for its status apart from the executive branch. Long identified as a conservative, Mr. Greenspan ran into considerable flak when he sat next to Hillary Rodham Clinton at President Clinton's first State of the Union address. Many Republicans complained loudly that he had undermined the Fed's carefully nurtured independence. More recently, Representative Jim Saxton, the New Jersey Republican who is the vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, said just last week that Mr. Greenspan was giving too much back-channel advice to the Clinton Administration on budget policy.
Mr. Greenspan's close cooperation with the Treasury Department on a foreign policy issue like the Mexico bailout also raises constitutional issues, some critics say, because the Federal Reserve is technically a creation of Congress. The Constitution specifies that the executive branch handles foreign affairs, and Federal Reserve officials have long emphasized that for this reason, they only intervene in foreign exchange markets under instructions from the Treasury Department.
"It's troublesome to see the chairman of the Federal Reserve leading the charge on an issue on Capitol Hill," said Walker Todd, a former lawyer at the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Cleveland. The reason is "that it looks like the Federal Reserve has become part of the executive branch when he does that."
To be sure, there is plenty of precedent for Mr. Greenspan's involvement in an international financial crisis. Mr. Volcker, the chairman of the Federal Reserve from 1979 until Mr. Greenspan replaced him in 1987, was active behind the scenes during the last bailout of Mexico in 1982. And some would say Mr. Greenspan's visibility may ultimately prove more helpful to the situation than Mr. Volcker's obscurity.
In an appearance before the House Budget Committee last summer, Mr. Greenspan described his philosophy on contacts between the Fed and the White House.
"What actually happens and what should happen is that there should be a coordinated policy between the central bank and the executive branch, because there is one economy and there is one government," he said. "There is, nonetheless, a very crucial issue that the Federal Reserve has to be independent in its actions and as an institution, because if Federal Reserve independence is in any way compromised, it undercuts our capability of protecting the value of the currency in the society."
At that same hearing, Mr. Greenspan said that it was not appropriate for Federal Reserve officials to prescribe specific ways to reduce the budget deficit. But Mr. Greenspan is known to be deeply frustrated that Congress has done little to tackle the explosion in costs for Social Security and other inflation-linked social programs. Indeed, that frustration seemed evident when he volunteered last Tuesday his idea of revising Government measurements of inflation or amending Federal law so that these programs rise more slowly than the Consumer Price Index, which tends to exaggerate the actual rate of inflation.
Current and former Federal Reserve officials point out that Mr. Greenspan has legitimate reasons for being so outspoken on issues outside the Fed's traditional purview. And Mr. Greenspan, while not emphasizing the point during his Congressional testimony, did start with the caveat that "the views I will be expressing are my own and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve Board."
Edward G. Boehne, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said that Mr. Greenspan's background as a budget expert meant that his views were of legitimate interest to Congress. "If I were a congressman or a senator, I would want to hear what Alan Greenspan" had to say, Mr. Boehne said. Before joining the Federal Reserve, Mr. Greenspan served as the chairman of a two-year Federal commission that reviewed ways to improve the financing of the Social Security program.
Lyle E. Gramley, a former governor of the Federal Reserve Board, said that the problems in Mexico were so severe that Mr. Greenspan had to be involved.
Several former Federal Reserve officials with long memories recalled that Arthur F. Burns, who was the Fed's chairman from 1970 to 1978, had served as chairman of a commission that President Richard M. Nixon established in 1971 to control interest rates and dividends.
Nor has Mr. Greenspan particularly sought to be identified with the Administration. When he stepped to the podium in the White House press room last week, the lights were dimmed. That was so that the television cameras -- which had captured his arrival along with that of Treasury Secretary Rubin -- -- could not record the session. It was supposed to be a background briefing, where the two men were to be identified only as "senior United States officials."
The effect was eerily appropriate: with the lights dimmed, Mr. Greenspan was silhouetted against the glow of a single bulb.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Federal Reserve's chairman, Alan Greenspan, has become more visible on issues. At a briefing last week on Mexico, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, left, talked with Mr. Greenspan, second from left, while Lawrence H. Summers, an Under Secretary of the Treasury, looked on. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES; MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (69%); TRENDS (67%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



439 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Lynch Is Facing Challenge to Credibility

BYLINE: By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Ever since Orange County, Calif., declared bankruptcy last month, Merrill Lynch & Company has trumpeted its claim that it had retained about $2 billion worth of securities as collateral for loans made to the county while other Wall Street lenders quickly cashed out.
But now, as the county mounts a legal onslaught against the securities firm, what Merrill has tried to portray as a gesture of support for its longtime client has turned into a major challenge to its credibility. 
 At a hearing scheduled for today, lawyers for the county plan to ask Judge John Ryan of bankruptcy court to order Merrill to set aside the proceeds from the remaining sales of collateral into a fund that the county can draw against if it wins its $3 billion lawsuit against the brokerage.
Merrill, under instructions from Salomon Brothers, the financial adviser to the county, has sold about $1.3 billion in securities in the last few weeks. The county says that about $1.06 billion worth of its securities are still being held by Merrill Lynch and should be set aside in a special escrow account. But Merrill, which opposes such an account, says that only about $260 million remains.
In addition to the amount of money that Merrill will be forced to set aside if Judge Ryan grants the county's request, at stake in the disagreement is the trustworthiness of Merrill's public statements since the firm became embroiled in the fingerpointing following the county's financial meltdown.
Although Merrill was not the only securities company to lend money to Orange County, its involvement was by far the largest. Merrill reportedly supplied 95 percent of the derivative securities held in the county's portfolio, according to a 1993 letter written by Robert L. Citron, the former treasurer who resigned after the fund's more than $2 billion in losses began to come to light in early December.
It was Michael G. Stamenson, a Merrill salesman, who played a central role in Mr. Citron's investment strategy that led to the county's bankruptcy.
Last summer Merrill also underwrote $600 million in one-year notes issued by the county. The money was injected into the portfolio at a time when its cash was rapidly drying up -- a fact that was not disclosed in the offering's prospectus.
The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Orange County District Attorney and the United States Attorney in Los Angeles are currently investigating Merrill's actions.
Both Mr. Citron and Mr. Stamenson are scheduled to testify publicly for the first time today, when they are to appear before a California State Senate committee.
Through it all, Merrill has said that it did nothing wrong. As late as last week, Merrill's chairman and chief executive, Daniel P. Tully, held the firm's behavior above Wall Street rivals'.
"Merrill Lynch stood virtually alone in its decision not to liquidate our approximately $2 billion in collateral," he wrote in a memo to the company's employees in Southern California. "Instead, we have cooperated fully with the county and its financial advisers, Salomon Brothers, in their plan for the orderly sale of portfolio assets to stem further losses."
Two days later, the county filed suit against Merrill, seeking $3 billion in compensation. Lawyers for the county said yesterday that they believed Merrill had illegally disposed of the $800 million in securities put up as collateral by the county in exchange for loans.
Merrill's lawyers countered that the $800 million consisted of "reverse to maturity" agreements that allowed the company to dispose of the securities as it wished, requiring it only to make an interest payment to the county when the securities reached maturity. Merrill said the securities were cashed in about a year ago.
Whatever the case, Merrill had difficulty tallying up just how much collateral it received from the county. Early yesterday, a lawyer representing the firm said that the $800 million had never been considered as collateral because the county received the principal from the securities in cash. Merrill had $1.6 billion in reverse repurchase agreements with the county on the day it declared bankruptcy, not including the $800 million, a spokesman said. The $1.6 billion figure had been rounded up to "approximately $2 billion" in the public statements by Mr. Tully and others, he said.
But later in the day, the spokesman said that the $800 million had indeed been included as collateral from the county. Merrill had $2.4 billion in securities when the county filed for bankruptcy, he said. That figure had been rounded down to about $2 billion, he added.
Merrill said that even putting $260 million into escrow, much less the full $1.06 billion Orange County was seeking, would be unnecessarily damaging to its bottom line.
A Merrill executive said that the company would be able to pay any judgment against it, but county attorneys said that they had requested the fund because of concerns about Merrill's credit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (96%); MER (NYSE) (96%); 8675 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (96%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (96%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC; SALOMON BROTHERS MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (96%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC; SALOMON BROTHERS

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); BANKRUPTCIES; SUITS AND LITIGATION INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COUNTIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BONDS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LITIGATION (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: RYAN, JOHN E (JUDGE); ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; CITRON, ROBERT L JOHN T RYAN III (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



440 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
FIRST INTERSTATE BANCORP (I,N)

 BODY:
First Interstate Bancorp reported a nearly 45 percent increase in fourth-quarter earnings yesterday, an advance that reflected an improved California economy and strong loan growth.
First Interstate, which is based in Los Angeles, made $211.3 million, or $2.65 a share, in the quarter compared with $146.1 million, or $1.78 a share, a year earlier. 
 The results exceeded Wall Street's estimate of $2.55 a share, according to a survey of analysts by Zacks Investment Research.
The company said economic recovery in California helped loan demand. Loans also increased as a result of new marketing programs and acquisitions, it said. Average loans were up $7 billion, from $31.8 billion a year earlier.
Net interest income -- interest earned from loans and investments minus interest paid on deposits and the company's own borrowing -- rose nearly 18 percent, to $621.7 million, compared with the quarter a year earlier.
First Interstate, a Western and Southwestern regional banking power and the nation's 14th-largest banking company, also reduced its bad loans. Foreclosures and loans in default totaled $258.2 million as of Dec. 31, down 16.4 percent from the total a year earlier. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Table: "FIRST INTERSTATE BANCORP (I,N)"

Qtr. to Dec 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	b211,300,000	c146,100,000	+44.6	Per shr.	2.65	1.78	 	Yr net	b733,500,000	c736,700,000	-00.4	Per shr.	8.71	8.96	 	
 
b-Reflects restructuring charges of $1.4 million in the quarter and $87.6 million in the year.
c-After extraordinary losses of $9.3 million, or 12 cents a share, in the quarter and $24.8 million, or 32 cents a share, in the year, both on early payment of debt. The year also includes a gain of $200.1 million, or $2.60 a share, from an adjustment in accounting.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$73.625
Up $2.125

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FIRST INTERSTATE BANCORP WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FIRST INTERSTATE BANCORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LOAN DEFAULTS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



441 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Offer Advice to Consumers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
Stung by flat sales and a declining public image, the life insurance industry is trying to repair the damage with a new booklet that it hopes will make buying life insurance a less daunting task.
The new booklet explains why insurance should be bought, describes the main features of various types of policies and tells customers what to expect from a sales agent. It also suggests questions consumers might ask and concludes with a few tips for buyers. 
 After questioning groups of consumers, industry officials decided to replace an old brochure "which was more about products and less about how to buy," said Barbara E. Bey, vice president at the American Council of Life Insurance, which produced the booklet with other industry groups.
Insurance experts at consumer groups said the booklet offered sound advice to insurance customers, but noted that the glossy, color brochure was no substitute for reforms in the industry. Improper sales tactics -- including the replacing of existing policies with new policies and inaccurate descriptions of life insurance policies as retirement plans -- have led to a wave of investigations by state regulators in the last few years.
Mary Griffin, an insurance expert at Consumers Union, the Washington group that publishes Consumer Reports, praised the booklet for explaining that the primary purpose of life insurance policies is to protect against financial disaster in case of death.
While life insurance policies can help in paying for retirement or education, customers who are not looking primarily for the death benefit "should consider what other financial products are available to meet those goals," the booklet says.
The booklet notes that death benefits from life insurance are not taxed. But it is silent on one feature that many agents use as one of their strongest selling points: the exemption from income tax on the dividends paid by companies on some policies or the accumulation of interest and appreciating stock prices in other kinds of policies.
The booklet is also silent on other issues. It does not mention that companies might contest, or refuse to immediately pay, claims filed within a few years after a policy is issued because of misleading statements about an insured person's health.
The booklet also describes the "illustrations" that agents use to show how some kinds of policies can accumulate cash value from payments that insurers make routinely but are not guaranteed. But Jim Hunt, an adviser to the National Insurance Consumer Organization, noted that despite the descriptions of the illustrations, the booklet still left customers in the dark about judging the illustrations' accuracy and fairness.
"One of the crying needs in life insurance is for uniform disclosure, something like the annual percentage rate in loans, so that consumers could evaluate the policies," he said.
Robert E. Wilcox, Utah's insurance commissioner, said state regulators were nearing completion of new rules to stop some companies and agents from using overly optimistic illustrations as part of their sales pitch. He said regulators wanted to require that illustrations be based on the companies' actual experience and include an example of what would happen if the company reduced the so-called dividend payments on whole life policies, which accumulate value as premiums are paid.
Mr. Hunt also faulted the booklet for understating the high costs incurred by customers who drop whole life policies. The booklet advised against dropping such policies in "early years" when, in fact, Mr. Hunt noted that consumers might need to hold their policies for 10 or even 15 years to reap the full benefits of their policies' value as an investment. That is a result of the high price of sales commissions paid in the early years of new policies.
The insurance council started work on the booklet nearly a year ago, and last week mailed the first of what it expects will be millions of copies to insurance companies for distribution to their customers. The booklet is 23 pages long and can be read in less than half an hour. It is written in the plain English that many consumers will wish they could find in insurance policies. A copy may be ordered by calling (800) 942-4242.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS; CONSUMERS UNION OF US INC MALAYSIAN NATIONAL INSURANCE SDN BHD (51%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (83%); CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS; CONSUMERS UNION OF US INC AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (83%); AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LIFE INSURERS (83%); CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); CONSUMERS UNION OF UNITED STATES (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UTAH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE; CONSUMER PROTECTION; SALES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LIFE INSURANCE (94%); INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE POLICIES (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SALES PLAN (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (68%); INCOME TAX (63%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; GRIFFIN, MARY JIM HUNT (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



442 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Energy Prices Rise Briskly On Colder Weather Outlook

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Natural gas prices surged yesterday on the New York Mercantile Exchange, halting a nine-session slide.
Heating oil, gasoline and crude oil prices also rose. Traders attributed the upturn in energy prices to forecasts for colder, more seasonal weather in the northern United States. 
 On other commodity markets, cotton and copper prices fell sharply, reversing their recent trends. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities slipped 0.22 point, to 232.96.
Natural gas for February delivery jumped 6.7 cents, or about 5 percent, to $1.39 for a million British thermal units. February home heating oil rose 0.67 cent, to 47.35 cents a gallon; February unleaded gasoline jumped 1.88 cents, to 56.88 a gallon; February crude oil rose 36 cents, to $17.88 a barrel.
Natural gas prices have been trading at their lowest levels in nearly three years. The declines have been attributed by some analysts to unseasonably warm temperatures in both the Midwest, the main consumption region for natural gas, and in the Northeast, the biggest consumer of heating oil.
The selling ended abruptly yesterday after meteorologists revised their forecasts, which now predict a return to seasonal temperatures later this week.
"There really hasn't been anything to cling onto until now," said George Ellis, a trader at GSC Energy in Atlanta, a division of the Grain Service Corporation. "It's an opportunity to stop the punishment here, to see how cold it gets or not."
Natural gas prices are affected by weather more than other energy contracts because supplies are more than adequate. The American Gas Association, a trade group, reported last week that natural gas in storage was up 8 percent from a year ago.
The March cotton contract fell 2 cents, the maximum one-day loss allowed by the New York Cotton Exchange, to 88.94 cents a pound.
Strong world demand has lifted cotton prices to three-and-a-half-year highs but nervous speculators are starting to leave the market, analysts said.
On the Commodity Exchange of New York, March copper fell 2.3 cents, to $1.3565 a pound.
Steve Platt, a Dean Witter analyst, attributed some of the copper selling to investors growing leery of developing nations in light of Mexico's financial crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: SCI (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; WEATHER; GAS (FUEL); OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; HEATING FUEL OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (92%); FUTURES (91%); HEATING OIL (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); TRENDS (77%); METEOROLOGY (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); NATURAL GAS PIPELINES (74%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (73%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



443 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: New York City's Undying Deficit: Slash It, and It Just Grows Back

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
Although he has already slashed $2 billion from city programs, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani still faces another budget gap in the next 18 months that will be as large, if not larger.
And those grim figures do not take into account the real possibility of large cuts in aid from Washington and from Albany, where Gov. George E. Pataki is looking for ways to solve the state's own budget gaps and make good on his campaign promise of major cuts in taxes and spending. 
 "It's very, very bad," said City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi. "The decisions are increasingly painful."
With business, sales and personal income tax collections all running lower than expected in December, the administration's first task is to close a gap now estimated at $600 million to $700 million in the $31.6 billion budget before the fiscal year ends in June.
At the same time, the Mayor must prepare a budget for next year to close a gap ranging from $2 billion, as his budget director predicts, to well above $2.5 billion, as several outside monitors expect.
To get through the year, administration officials are scrutinizing everything from a one-shot debt refinancing to cuts in contracts with nonprofit social-service providers. Next year, they are looking at vast reductions in welfare and Medicaid, as well as the elimination and consolidation of scores of city programs. The municipal unions, which all open new rounds of contract talks with the city this year, have been told that there will be no raises that are not paid for through increased productivity.
The recurrence of annual $2 billion deficits testifies to the depth of the city's fiscal problems. When he came into office a year ago, inheriting a $2.3 billion deficit, Mr. Giuliani, the first Republican Mayor in more than two decades, promised to end New York City's long tradition of expansive government. And he has worked single-mindedly to carry out that pledge, despite demonstrations by constituent groups, a court battle with the City Council and growing criticisms from parents troubled by reductions in school aid and closing youth programs.
He won City Council approval for a budget that reduced city spending for the first time in 16 years, and removed 15,000 workers from the city payroll. When those actions rapidly proved insufficient to deal with the magnitude of the deficit he inherited, Mr. Giuliani called for the elimination of 7,000 more jobs and a raft of new spending cuts. He put nearly $800 million of them in place unilaterally last month.
But an unexpected halt in the region's economic expansion has eaten away at the gains Mr. Giuliani has made, forcing the administration to lower its forecasts of tax revenue twice within a year. Indeed, the midyear deficit the Mayor is now grappling with is one of the largest since at least 1981, when the city switched to its new accounting system, according to Rosemary Scanlon, the assistant deputy state comptroller who tracks the city's economy.
Part of the current deficit stems from management problems or overoptimistic assumptions.
The Giuliani administration had counted on selling the United Nations Plaza Hotel for $65 million and renegotiating airport leases with the Port Authority for another $75 million. But neither the lease negotiation nor the hotel sale has been concluded. The collection of parking fines is millions of dollars below what had been expected, and overtime costs are running over budget.
But the heart of the persistent problems, officials say, is the stagnant regional economy, which is not producing enough job growth and tax receipts to keep pace with the city's rising poverty rolls, health insurance costs and obligations to pay off borrowing.
With New York still feeling the aftereffects of the collapse of the real estate market in the late 1980's, property tax collections are expected to see only a minuscule rise from $7 billion in the current fiscal year to $7.13 billion next year.
"You can't support normal growth in expenses if your most important tax -- the one that produces a third of all revenue -- is growing 1 percent a year," said Abraham Biderman, one of Mr. Giuliani's appointees to the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which monitors the city's finances.
Making matters worse is the slump in the financial industry, which had been the engine pulling the New York region out of recession, but was the primary cause of the poor tax performance in December. "Wall Street has been injured terribly and 17 percent of our tax revenues flow from Wall Street," said Mr. Hevesi.
In contrast, debt service on the city's borrowing has been increasing and is expected to consume as much as 18 percent of tax revenues next year. The rate of increase in the costs of fringe benefits for city workers is outstripping tax growth. The welfare rolls have continued to rise. And officials now believe that the city will have to make $300 million to $500 million more in pension contributions next year than it had expected because of a change in actuarial assumptions.
Some of the analysts who study city finances said they were beginning to worry that the halt in the region's expansion could signal that New York is at the edge of a further economic slowdown. Historically, the city enters a recession earlier than the rest of the nation and takes longer to recover.
But Marc V. Shaw, Mr. Giuliani's new budget director, disputed such negative assessments. "We don't read the revenue picture as the beginning of a downhill slide," he said.
He said that the precipitous drop in property tax collections over the last two years had bottomed out. And he said he did not expect other taxes to continue to run below expectations as they did in December, when they were affected by poor year-end bonuses on Wall Street. He also noted that while sales-tax revenue had fallen below predictions in December, it was still running higher than a year ago. "If it was negative it would raise eyebrows," he said.
Mr. Shaw said the Mayor planned to begin negotiations with the City Council this week on a third round of budget cuts to address the latest deficit of $600 million to $700 million. He said the administration was committed to finding recurring savings to whittle down next year's gap.
But he acknowledged that the administration was considering achieving some savings -- as much as $150 million to $175 million, according to other city officials -- by refinancing debt, a move that provides one-shot budget relief.
One city official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that the credit-rating agencies had warned that they would look dimly on such a refinancing because it would be the second one in less than a year. How the rating agencies react is important, because they determine the city's credit rating and the amount it can charge for its bonds.
Richard P. Larkin, managing director of the Standard & Poor's bond-rating agency, said of a refinancing: "Most people know what we think of this kind of gimmick. It is certainly not a positive development for the city, and it would cause us concern."
While Mr. Shaw declined to be specific on the administration's other proposals to achieve the savings, he said that layoffs would not be considered, in part because it is too late in the fiscal year for them to produce significant savings. He said the administration would be concentrating on other areas, including cuts in contracts with nonprofit agencies that provide social services.
Administration officials have identified 10 day care centers for closing, saying that the city is paying too much rent for the sites, though Giuliani aides say they hope to make other arrangements for the families using those centers. And the city's Youth Services Commissioner, Alfred B. Curtis Jr., told a Council committee on Friday that 114 youth service agencies around the city were shutting down because they could no longer afford to provide further services after a previous round of budget cuts.
City Council officials predicted that the coming choices would be grim. "We have no choice but to do very huge cuts," said Herbert E. Berman, the chairman of the Council's Finance Committee. "Cuts have to be more Draconian, more severe, and you have to be colder about what you're doing."
Even as the city makes cuts, a major unknown is what will happen to its state and Federal aid. Mr. Giuliani has sought to paint the new political climate in Albany and Washington as an opportunity for the city to rid itself of spending mandates imposed by the other levels of government. Such mandates require the city to provide generous welfare and Medicaid benefits and to comply with environmental protection laws.
But many city officials fear that the Republican Governor and Republican Congress will not just reduce mandates but substantially cut aid to localities, further compounding the city's problems. Mr. Pataki himself faces a $100 million shortfall in the state fiscal year that ends in March and a $4 billion gap in the following year even before he moves forward with his tax cut plans.
In Washington, House Republicans have talked of consolidating scores of Federal programs into block grants that would go directly to the states, but reduce the overall amount of aid.
"The real unknown is Newt Gingrich and George Pataki," said Mr. Biderman. "They have commitments of their own and it's not clear where they are going to be. If they are really serious about the things they are saying, particularly at the Federal level, it could be beyond people's worst expectations."


GRAPHIC: JULY: The 1995 fiscal year begins after the Mayor and the Council agree on more than $1 billion oncuts and other actions to close a potential gap of $2.3 billion in a $31.6 billion budget.
Chronology: "Tracking the City's Deepening Fiscal Problems"
 OCTOBER: After tax revenues fall and anticipated Federal and state aid fails to materialize over the summer, the Mayor proposes a second round of cuts to close a new gap of $1.1 billion that has opened in the budget.
 NOVEMBER: Unable to reach an agreement with the Mayor on cuts to educations, youth services and social programs, the City Council passes its own version of budget cuts, restoring $96 million in spending in some areas and replacing it with equal cuts in other agencies. Mr. Giuliani vetoes the Council's plan, calling it "blatantly illegal."
 DECEMBER: With Mr. Giuliani saying he will ignore the override of his veto, the City Council sues the Mayor for the first time since it was created in 1938. A state judge throws out both the Mayor's plan and the Council's version. As the year ends, theMayor announces that he will unilaterally impose $800 million in spending cuts to keep the budget balanced.
 JANUARY: With business, sales and personal income tax collections all running lower than expected in December, the city faces a budget gap now estimated at $600 million to $700 million in the $31.6 billion budget before the fiscal year ends in June. The size of the budget gap for the next fiscal year has grown to $2 billion, city officials say; outside monitors say it could be well above $2.5 billion. With cuts in state and Federal aid a very real possibility, the gap could grow even larger, forcing still more cuts in services.
 
(pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; LABOR; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); TRENDS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MEDICAID (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); INCOME TAX (74%); APPROVALS (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (64%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MITCHELL, ALISON RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



444 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: At an Atlanta Celebration: Hope, Resolve And Memories

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 16

 BODY:
In what is likely to be her last annual "State of the Dream" speech, Coretta Scott King, the widow of the slain civil rights leader, scanned the international horizon today and said she saw reasons for hope as well as reasons to redouble the efforts to build the "beloved community of Martin Luther King Jr.'s dream."
Late last year, Mrs. King, the 67-year-old founder of the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change here, announced that she was stepping down as chairwoman and chief executive of the nonprofit, educational organization. Dexter Scott King, 33, the youngest son among the four King children, has succeeded succeed her.
Speaking to nearly 400 people gathered at Ebenezer Baptist Church on the 10th annual observance of the King holiday to mark what would have been Dr. King's 66th birthday, Mrs. King said she saw reasons for hope as crises abated in places like Rwanda, Haiti and parts of the Middle East, even though civil strife continued in places like Nigeria, Bosnia and Russia.
"The most positive development for the state of the dream worldwide since we last met has been the establishment of a great new democracy in South Africa," she said.
Domestically, she said, political leaders seemed focused on budget deficits when the nation had a serious "compassion deficit." Nevertheless, Mrs. King said she was optimistic about the future as she left the leadership of the King center to write about her life after her husband's assassination and to pursue some "long overdue" musical projects that would put her conservatory training as a singer to use.
"I am leaving this ship of hope in good hands," she said of her son.
Since taking over last month, Mr. King has been involved in a public dispute with the National Park Service over control of a main site in the King Historic District here and the right to construct a major memorial to his father.
Only oblique mention was made of that dispute today as some who have been critical of the King center in the dispute, like Representative John Lewis of Georgia and Mayor Bill Campbell of Atlanta, sat on the dais alongside King family members for the official observance of the holiday.
But a reminder of the dispute was just outside the door of the church and across the street. There stood the half-demolished hulk of the city's Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center, which city officials have deeded to the National Park Service over the objections of the King family for the construction of an $11 million visitors' center. If completed, the center is likely to become the gateway to the historic district, setting the tone for an estimated three million visitors a year, and possibly eclipsing the King family's plans for a high-tech, interactive museum.
In a voice strikingly reminiscent of the cadence and phrasing of his father, Dexter King said that Dr. King was part of American history and "belonged to everyone spiritually" but that his family was the guardian of his legacy until his dream was fulfilled.
"My father delivered political freedom and I would like to deliver economic freedom," Mr. King said, sketching a goal that he said the King center was likely to pursue under his leadership. "Had his life not been cut short, I believe economic empowerment would have been the next step and the King center should be the catalyst in that goal," he said. "I'm calling home all those freedom fighters who marched with my father. Dexter Scott King is going to be there with you this time, and we will make it to the promise land."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Coretta Palumbo, 5, of Hyde Park, Vt., paid tribute to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at an observance in Montpelier, the state capital. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); HAITI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (59%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR, CENTER FOR NONVIOLENT SOCIAL CHANGE

ORGANIZATION: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR, CENTER FOR NONVIOLENT SOCIAL CHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA (GA); UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); HAITI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (59%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); MONTPELIER, VT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); CITIES (88%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); FAMILY (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUDGETS (70%); RELIGION (69%); NATIONAL PARKS (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (65%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); 

PERSON: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); SMOTHERS, RONALD; KING, CORETTA SCOTT; KING, DEXTER SCOTT MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (92%); JOHN LEWIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



445 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Plan For Welfare Is Criticized

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration today denounced a major element of the House Republicans' welfare bill, which would replace most Federal food and nutrition programs with cash grants to be administered by the states.
The Administration said the Republican proposal would cut at least $5.2 billion -- almost 13 percent --from the $40.8 billion that would otherwise be spent on food assistance next year. 
 In a report analyzing the bill, the Agriculture Department said today that the Republican proposal also would eliminate "all uniform nutrition standards" now set by the Federal Government for school lunches, the Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, and other food programs. The programs were developed in response to evidence of malnutrition documented by the Government over the last half century and many studies suggest that they have improved the diets and nutritional status of low-income people, the report says.
The welfare changes are in the proposed Personal Responsibility Act, one of 10 bills introduced by House Republicans as part of their "Contract With America." The bill authorizes a lump sum payment of $35.6 billion from the Government to the states for food assistance next year.
People who now qualify for Federal programs would not necessarily be entitled to assistance under the state programs.
The Agriculture Department said 42 states would lose money under the proposed Republican formula for distributing the food assistance money and eight states -- California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, Utah and Wyoming -- would gain.
But the report says, "There is no guarantee that Congress would appropriate the full amount authorized in any given year." Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the ranking Democrat on the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry, said, for example, that Congress might appropriate less than the maximum of $35.6 billion next year and could substantially reduce the appropriation in later years, under pressure to eliminate the Federal budget deficit.
"I am afraid that the Republicans will vote for the rhetoric but not the reality," Mr. Leahy said. "They will want the symbolism of the 'Contract With America,' but will not live up to their part of the bargain by voting for the full appropriation."
The Republicans say that states will be able to reduce administrative costs far below current Federal levels. Under the Republican proposal, the maximum lump sum grant to the states would be adjusted for changes in population and food prices but not for increases in the proportion of residents who were unemployed or poor.In that case, the Agriculture Department said that "food assistance programs would be unable to respond to changing economic circumstances."
Historically, the report said, "the food stamp and child nutrition programs have automatically expanded to meet increased need when the economy is in recession." But the report said the Republican proposal would burden states with demands for assistance "at precisely the time when state economies are in recession and tax bases are shrinking."
Republicans who support the proposal say Congress could simply appropriate more money for food assistance in a recession or other emergency.
In its report, the Agriculture Department says the Republican bill "could lead to the termination of benefits for six million food stamp recipients" if states tightened eligibility to accommodate the proposed reduction in Federal spending.
The food stamp program serves more than 27 million people a month. Average monthly benefits were $69 a person last year. Congress appropriated $27.7 billion for the program this year.
The Administration asserted that the Republican proposal, by cutting the amount spent on food aid, "would lower retail food sales, reduce farm income and increase unemployment," especially in rural areas.
The Agriculture Department said that the proposal would allow states to provide assistance in cash, rather than as food stamp coupons or as scrip earmarked for food products rich in nutrients like calcium, iron and vitamins A and C.
"Under the proposed block grant," it said, "states could immediately cash-out any and all food assistance programs," in spite of evidence that noncash benefits like food stamps are more effective in stimulating the purchase of food.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (55%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (90%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT (90%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (68%); HOUSE REPUBLICANS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DIET AND NUTRITION; FEDERAL AID (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION NUTRITION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (89%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); MALNUTRITION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MATERNAL & CHILD HEALTH PROGRAMS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US WOMEN INFANTS & CHILDREN PROGRAM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (69%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT PATRICK LEAHY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



446 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: The Mark: Refuge in Risky Days;
Losses for the Dollar

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar slipped against most leading currencies yesterday.
Trading was thin because banks in the United States were closed in observance of the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., and markets in Japan were closed for a holiday there, Adult Day. 
 Some traders attributed the weakness in the dollar to speculation that the Federal Reserve might refrain from raising short-term interest rates later this month, as had been expected. Higher interest rates typically strengthen the dollar by making investments in dollar-denominated securities more attractive than those from abroad.
"There is now a 50-50 chance the Fed will hike rates," said Steven Jury, chief currency dealer at Union Bank of Switzerland in New York, "and that has caused sentiment to turn a bit negative toward the dollar in the past few days."
In late New York trading, the dollar fell to 1.5316 German marks, from 1.5337 marks on Friday. The dollar sagged to 98.05 Japanese yen, its lowest level since Nov. 23, before recovering to 98.42 yen, down from 98.50 yen on Friday.
It also fell to 1.2835 Swiss francs, from 1.2880 francs on Friday. The British pound edged up to $1.5683 from $1.5680.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (83%); UBS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UBS AG (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; HOLIDAYS AND SPECIAL OCCASIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); BANKS AND BANKING CURRENCIES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BRITISH POUND (73%); 

PERSON: KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR, INSTITUTE FOR NON-VIOLENCE

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



447 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Go After Corporate Welfare

 BODY:
Republicans will have to cut over $1 trillion out of the Federal budget over seven years in order to pay for their promise to cut taxes and balance the budget. If Social Security and defense are exempted, as many Republican leaders insist, that means the remaining programs must be cut by 30 to 40 percent. This benighted pledge, if fulfilled, will wreck Government programs, good and bad.
The damage could be mitigated by requiring defense to absorb its fair share of the cuts, as this page has urged -- and by eliminating the huge, unjustified Federal subsidies and tax breaks doled out every year to wealthy companies and other special interests. 
 Republicans have already declared war on Aid to Dependent Children and other forms of welfare -- including food stamps, housing assistance and child nutrition -- that cost about $50 billion a year. Secretary of Labor Robert Reich challenges them to go after another form of welfare, equally large or larger, which he mockingly labels "Aid to Dependent Corporations." Corporate welfare, according to a meticulous though partial list drawn up by the Democratic Leadership Council, exceeds $40 billion a year. The Leadership Council estimates that a thorough search would turn up between $60 billion and $75 billion a year.
That pile of wasteful giveaways should provide plump pickings for John Kasich, the forthright head of the House Budget Committee, and other G.O.P. budget cutters. By going after corporate welfare they can invest more in training, education, infrastructure and scientific research as well as preserve help for the needy -- even as they proceed with their frenzied attack on Federal spending.
Some Federal handouts are justified. Government should underwrite basic research, for example in biotechnology or materials science, that has the potential to enrich society even if any one company is unlikely to translate its discovery into large profits. Government also has a responsibility to provide housing and health care to the poor. But a quick scan of the Federal budget shows scores of subsidies that amount to little more than payback to politically powerful constituents.
A Leadership Council think tank lists 68 tax and spending programs that cost more than $40 billion a year but that, it argues, do little to benefit the economy. A few items on the list can be defended, but most cannot. For example, taxpayers spend billions subsidizing the sale of food to foreigners (to bail out growers) and of timber (to bail out loggers). Washington pays dairy farmers and sugar growers to keep prices high and pays oil companies to drill hard-to-reach wells. Congress subsidizes private utilities that serve rural areas long after electrification of those areas, the original purpose of the program, has been achieved.
None of the beneficiaries of these Federal handouts will relinquish their subsidies without a ferocious fight. The Leadership Council proposes that a commission be set up -- similar to the one that recommended which military bases to close -- to draw up a plan to cut corporate welfare, which Congress would then vote upon without amendment. Even without such a commission, the G.O.P. promises to bring to a vote a menu of cuts that, as Mr. Kasich has promised, exempts "no Federal program, agency or department." But the Republicans seem allergic to closing corporate loopholes.
The G.O.P. owes America more than budget balancing and tax cuts. Despite its anti-welfare rhetoric, it has a duty to protect vulnerable minorities. It must invest in the economy. It must not sacrifice one set of welfare recipients while protecting the fortunes of another.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP COUNCIL (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP COUNCIL (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; CORPORATIONS BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); CHILDREN (74%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (69%); PUBLIC HOUSING (69%); NUTRITION (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); MATERIALS SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); SUGAR FARMING (60%); DAIRY FARMING (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%); 

PERSON: JOHN KASICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



448 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
Those Vital Paupers

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
There is probably no solution to the welfare problem. It is the inescapable product of an economic system with which the powers that be are quite content.
This is why politicians and social planners are limited to tinkering with the going welfare system. Attacking the problem at its root would mean admitting it is rooted in the structure of American capitalism. 
 Nobody in public life wants to concede any shortcoming in that structure. Capitalism has just triumphed over its great enemy. Nobody argues with success, least of all in politics. That's why politicians calling for welfare reform sometimes seem to be talking nonsense. For instance:
The health of the American economy obviously depends on keeping a percentage of the work force unemployed. The Federal Reserve Board sees to this by constantly raising interest rates to prevent the economy from "overheating."
Among other things, "overheating" means fewer out-of-work people looking for jobs. This is said to make wages rise and promote inflation. Inflation is now widely considered one of the greatest perils facing the American economy.
By raising interest rates, the Fed's economic wizards choose the lesser evil: better to keep people unemployed than open the door to Ole Devil Inflation. In short, the system requires a degree of permanent unemployment to stay healthy. Something around 5 percent seems to be just about right.
The economy's need for unemployment is gratified not just by the Fed's police work, but also by the existence of a marginal class of people highly qualified to be out of work.
The chief qualification, of course, is lack of education. America is rich nowadays in lack of education. It abounds not merely in the profoundly hopeless ignorance of the high-school student who can't read, but also in the sadder ignorance of smart-enough people whom dismal schools leave unfit for the technological and professional jobs that pay off in this age of sedentary labor.
Despite the need for a safe cushion of unemployed people, despite the existence of an education system highly skilled at supplying such people, despite an established nonwork force of great experience, what do our leaders propose?
To make welfare recipients go to work. The absurdity of this work-or-do-without theory is surely obvious to the politicians.
They know they're talking about people whom the economy has sedulously prepared for unemployment. They know that if any significant number of them should nevertheless find jobs the Federal Reserve Board would have to raise interest rates once more to prevent "overheating" with a dose of disemployment.
Yet what can the poor politician propose as reform? Obviously something is wrong in Welfare World. With the working classes in an uncharitable lather about paying taxes to keep the nonworking class afloat, politicians cannot just stand there. They must do something.
The polls, those eternal polls that have replaced politicians' brains, insist that welfare be reformed.
What a pickle for a pol. Can he say, "The welfare mess exists because our basic economic system demands that we have mess-making people living in society's margins"?
Can he say, "If sound economic reasons didn't require us to maintain a force of marginal people, do you think we would have educated so many for marginal citizenship?"
Not likely. It makes him sound like a malcontent who doesn't like the capitalistic system. Doesn't he know it won the cold war?
So we have this tinkering, which cannot do much about the welfare problem except to buck it back to the states, or counties, or towns, which can't cope with it except by courting bankruptcy or practicing cruelty.
A few politicians are talking about Federal job training programs and improving education. This approach rests on Andrew Undershaft's theory, propounded by George Bernard Shaw in "Major Barbara," that a well-paid citizen working in a factory that makes weapons of war is better for world peace and stability than a pauper taking handouts from the Salvation Army.
That theory founders, however, in a system whose health demands a goodly supply of paupers living on handouts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); INTEREST RATES (73%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



449 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Is the Future of China in Deng's Iron Hand?;
The Copyright Idea

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re Thomas L. Friedman's Jan. 8 column on Chinese violations of international copyright protections: 
 Mr. Friedman characterizes as "chutzpah" a Chinese publisher's request to Joseph Stiglitz that he write a preface for the pirated edition of his economics textbook, "for which he was receiving no royalties." However, the publisher more likely meant to flatter Mr. Stiglitz, as well as increase the edition's authority.
According to Confucian ideals, the "superior man" does not seek personal profit but strives to improve the world. Through writings, his wisdom is disseminated.
Also, unauthorized reprinting of texts has been a practice of Chinese publishing since the 11th century. Government efforts to restrict it were driven by concerns about textual corruption and ideological control, rather than protecting profits.
Hectoring the Chinese will not shame them into giving up the practice. They will see our tirades as Western chauvinism, refusing to bow to them. Some other negotiating mode must be used instead.
Mr. Friedman's "chutzpah" in flaunting his own pirated-goods purchase, while intended to stir indignation over Chinese pirateering, unwittingly disqualified him from condemning the Chinese for violating "norms of international commerce."
 
JULIA K. MURRAY
Washington, Jan. 10, 1995
 
The writer is associate professor of Chinese art, U. of Wisconsin-Madison.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HEALTH, PERSONAL; FORECASTS PUBLISHING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COPYRIGHT LAW (90%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (90%); COPYRIGHT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTERNATIONAL COPYRIGHT (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: DENG XIAOPING; TUNG, TIMOTHY THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



450 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 243 words

HEADLINE: Is the Future of China in Deng's Iron Hand?;
Going Back

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire (column, Jan. 9) argues that "Russia is in better political shape than China" because its new openness insures a long-run stability that China's "totalitarian state" can only simulate. Perhaps, but listen to my Chinese friend. 
 Leaving a good teaching job in the United States, he is returning, with his wife and children, to help build a new research institute in Beijing. Other Chinese are doing likewise.
I noted that few Russian and East European emigres have returned. Why was he going? "Two reasons," he said. "First, those people were often ethnic or religious minorities. Even after the fall of Communism, they might have felt oppressed."
And the second reason? "Well," he replied softly: "I'm a Chinese. China was once a strong country. I want to see it strong again someday."
In most countries, ethnicity, more than political liberties, creates the common ground on which political stability rests. The United States is an anomaly: a multiethnic country whose Constitution and civil society are central to its political identity.
Perhaps because Mr. Safire assumes that others are like us, he overstates the extent to which a free press can help Russia find its political bearings. And he misses a key reason for China's stable transition to the industrial age: ethnic nationalism, not some iron control from the top.
 
BRUCE L. REYNOLDS
Editor, China Economic Review
Ithaca, N.Y., Jan. 10, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; RUSSIA; CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ETHNICITY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (56%); 

PERSON: REYNOLDS, BRUCE L; SAFIRE, WILLIAM WILLIAM L SAFIRE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1995



451 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: QUAKE IN JAPAN: THE OVERVIEW;
DEATH COUNT IN JAPAN QUAKE EXCEEDS 2,000; HUNDREDS STILL TRAPPED IN KOBE WRECKAGE

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Wednesday, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Rescue teams dug frantically through the rubble in western Japan today and contained huge fires that had raged out of control and darkened the skies with smoke, the aftermath of a catastrophic earthquake on Tuesday in which thousands of people were killed or injured.
The earthquake lasted just 20 seconds but heaved trains on their sides, toppled elevated highways and knocked over buildings, some as cleanly as if they had been severed with a knife. 
 Sections of Kobe, a city of 1.4 million people, are in ruins not unlike those in which it found itself at the end of World War II.
Japan's sixth largest city and a major commercial hub, Kobe (pronounced koh-beh) was still smoldering today after firefighters succeeded in controlling dozens of blazes that had engulfed entire city blocks.
The police reported that as of 2:45 P.M. today ( 12:45 A.M. Eastern time), 2,053 people had been confirmed killed and 12,263 injured. In addition, 1,159 people are unaccounted for, the authorities said, so the casualty lists are expected to grow.
A million homes remained without electricity, and thousands of people spent Tuesday night outside, huddled in the open air. They rubbed their hands over bonfires for warmth, afraid to go inside for fear of the hundreds of aftershocks that continue to rattle the area.
The earthquake, which measured 7.2 on the Richter scale, was the worst to strike urban parts of Japan since the great Tokyo Earthquake of 1923. While most quakes recently have struck rural areas, the latest temblor struck a crucial economic zone that encompasses Kobe and Osaka, Japan's second-largest city and a financial center.
Newspapers across the country put out extra editions, and television stations provided round-the-clock coverage of blazing buildings and of rescuers searching through the rubble. In Tokyo, which is 280 miles away and scarcely felt the quake, many people were transfixed by the television scenes and by the grim drama of the efforts to rescue the hundreds of people believed trapped in collapsed buildings.
The quake also seemed to strike a blow at the Japanese psyche, for this is a nation that has prided itself on its earthquake preparedness. People are raised since childhood knowing just what to do if the "big one" strikes, and roads and buildings are supposed to be made to withstand the temblors.
But the quake on Tuesday was a reminder of the power of nature, a way of showing that buildings can be made earthquake-resistant but not earthquake-proof. Many Japanese who had seen images of the damage from the quake a year ago in Los Angeles and had assumed that such a thing could not happen here, discovered that it could.
"The roof just blew off all of a sudden," a woman in Kobe told Japanese television, describing her ordeal. "Glass shattered and flew all over."
Another woman, a store owner, still wearing the pajamas in which she had fled, told the television crew: "My home is all gone. The roof collapsed, and then I couldn't open the door. I had to climb out a window. I can't believe I'm alive."
Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama said at a news conference today that he would "do everything possible" to help the victims of the quake. The Government sent troops, along with specially trained dogs, to search through the rubble for hundreds of people who remain missing and are believed to be buried in the debris.
Traditionally, most of the casualties in Japanese earthquakes come not so much from the quakes themselves as from the fires or tsunami waves that follow. Today, in contrast, most of the deaths came from people buried in the debris, with fewer casualties attributed to the fires.
The police reported that more than 7,000 buildings had been destroyed, mostly in the Kobe area. Seismologists reported 616 aftershocks, but none of those were serious.
Mr. Murayama said he would visit the disaster area, and he set up a Government task force to help arrange relief efforts. People made homeless by the quake were accommodated in school gymnasiums and other emergency centers, but shortages of food and clothing were reported.
The earthquake cut off from the rest of the world one of the great hubs of global economic activity. Railroads, commerce and shipping all came to a halt. Even corporate headquarters in Osaka could not initially be reached by telephone from Tokyo, and business activity came to a standstill.
Economists said the cost of repairs would be huge, perhaps $10 billion to $20 billion. But in a paradox, they noted that the spending might give a boost to Japan's economy, which is the world's largest after America's and has only recently appeared to be emerging from a long recession.
The Construction Minister, Koken Nosaka, said it would take two or three years to rebuild Kobe. The city's port, through which 12 percent of Japan's exports pass, is inoperable, and shipping is being diverted to ports in South Korea and elsewhere.
Earthquakes have long been central to the consciousness of the Japanese people, who live on a series of seismic fault lines. There are few words so feared in Japanese as "ji shin" (pronounced gee sheen), or earthquake, for devastating temblors have been around in Japan as long as history records.
The last huge earthquake destroyed much of Tokyo in 1923 and killed about 140,000 people in collapsed buildings and in the fire that followed. A temblor and subsequent tsunami wave killed 27,000 people in 1896. A quake in 1948 in Fukui in central Japan killed more than 3,700 people, but it measured 7.1 on the Richter scale, a bit less severe than Tuesday's quake.
Schoolchildren are drilled about how to respond to earthquakes, and the Government has installed a nationwide system of seismic monitors. Whenever seismographs detect a temblor, computers automatically alert bullet trains to stop, so they do not derail at high speed.
The bullet trains had not yet begun to run at the time of the quake on Tuesday, but at least seven ordinary trains were derailed. Most or all were apparently carrying cargo rather than passengers.
The earthquake was centered below Awaji-shima, an island in the inland sea near Kobe and Osaka, and there was no tsunami. Hundreds of buildings were reported toppled on Awaji-shima, and 52 people died there, but the worst damage was in the much more densely populated areas of Kobe.
The earthquake struck at 5:46 A.M. Tuesday (3:46 P.M. Monday, Eastern time), when most people were in their beds. It jammed many doors, making it difficult for people to escape, and phones were out of order, so it was impossible to call for help or to report fires.
One hospital in Kobe collapsed during the quake. Rescue workers pulled 20 people from the rubble but said 20 more were still missing.
Television broadcasts added to the air of alarm by reporting that some experts believed that the latest quake could trigger others, or that Japan may be entering a new stage of greater seismic activity. A series of earthquakes have occurred in the last month, including one that struck rural areas in northern and central Japan on Dec. 28. That measured 7.5 on the Richter scale but killed only two people.
Robert J. Geller, an earthquake expert who teaches at Tokyo University, said there was no evidence suggesting that Japan should expect more strong quakes soon.
"Earthquakes are essentially a random phenomenon," he said. "When you look at it historically, there appear to be periods of greater and lesser seismic activity, but we're unable at this time to say whether that's real or just by chance."
Japanese newspapers reported this morning that an American woman, whom they identified as Bonnie Wong, a resident of the badly damaged city of Ashiya, was among the dead. The American Embassy also reported that an American had died, but did not identify the victim.
Some 10,000 Americans are reported to be living in the Osaka and Kobe area. Most apparently live in Osaka, where international companies like Matsushita and Sharp are situated, and which suffered much less damage than Kobe did.
President Clinton sent a high-level team to Japan today to offer assistance to the country in recovering from the earthquake. He said United States military forces in Japan would also be available to help "in any appropriate way."
Speaking in Los Angeles on the first anniversary of the quake that devastated that city, Mr. Clinton spoke of the "extraordinary fury" of the temblor in Japan and asked his audience of 20,000 to join in a moment of silence for its victims.
"I know all of you join with me in extending our profound condolences to the families of those in the Osaka-Kobe area of Japan who have suffered such a tremendous loss in the last day," the President said.
"You know what they're going through," he told the Los Angeles audience.
Leaders of Taiwan, France, Germany, Italy and Britain also promised aid, and condolences were sent by leaders of countries all over the world.
Only five of the deaths occurred in Osaka, and the damage there was mostly shattered windows and cracked walls rather than collapsed buildings. The Osaka Stock Exchange remained closed for the day because of the confusion in the city.
In Kyoto, the ancient capital of Japan and a tourist center, residents said that they had felt the quake very strongly but that there was little damage. Still, three Buddhist statues at a temple in Kyoto were knocked over and badly damaged, and some walls were cracked.
One of the hardest-hit areas was Nishinomiya, a city outside Kobe. Buildings were knocked down there, and the elevated Hanshin Expressway connecting Nishinomiya with Kobe was knocked on its side.
Until Tuesday morning, some people in western Japan had felt that they were at less risk of a major earthquake than residents of Tokyo. The quake was the worst in the Kobe area in hundreds of years, seismologists said.
Partly because Kobe was so isolated by the quake -- impossible to reach by air, train, car or ferry -- reports were often incomplete and even contradictory. At one point the authorities said 13,000 people had been injured, but then abruptly lowered the figure to 1,300, saying they had made a mistake.
Television stations broadcast lists of the names of people who had been confirmed killed, and people studied them anxiously since it was often impossible to reach family members in the region.
Many Japanese were particularly surprised by the collapse of the expressway in Kobe and Nishinomiya. Prime Minister Murayama, asked about the failure of such structures, said that the priority was relief efforts but that an investigation would be opened later.
"The Government should conduct an exhaustive probe into why these structures collapsed," the Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper said in an editorial today. "It is vital that the national and local governments re-examine facilities and infrastructure considered quake-resistant throughout the nation."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Kobe, residents fled a burning residential area yesterday with whatever belongings they could carry. (Reuters); A truck lay on its side after plunging from the Hanshin Expressway, between Osaka and Kobe. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Bereaved family members wept over the body of a relative in the Nishinomiya city gymnasium near Kobe. (Reuters) (pg. A12)
 
Diagram: "The Destruction in Kobe" shows areas that were heavily damaged in yesterday's earthquake. (Sources: Asahi Shimbun; Japanese Exchange Trade Organization) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO EARTHQUAKE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; KOBE (JAPAN); TAIWAN; ; FRANCE; GERMANY; ITALY; GREAT BRITAIN; JAPAN (97%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (68%); KINKI, JAPAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FIRES AND FIREMEN; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN; ITALY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-TAIWAN; GERMANY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN; RESCUES ; BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); POWER FAILURES (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); WORLD WAR II (55%); 

PERSON: NOSAKA, KOKEN (MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI (PRIME MIN); KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



452 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 57 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Fearful Of Alien Surge

 BODY:
Countering growing opposition from President Clinton's own party to its $40 billion rescue plan for Mexico, the Administration told leaders of Congress that the number of illegal immigrants crossing the border into Texas and California would increase by about 430,000 this year if the Mexican financial crisis deepened.
Article, page A3.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (86%); IMMIGRATION (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (80%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



453 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Credit Warning for New York
Mayor Giuliani's move to borrow to close a budget gap prompted a bond-rating agency to put the city's credit rating under watch. Page B1.
 
Cease-Fire Possible
 Russia and a secessionist region agreed on the timing for a cease-fire, but as the fighting continued, few people expect it to happen. Page A10.
 
Merrill Lynch Blamed
 The former treasurer of Orange County, Calif., blamed Merrill Lynch for an investment strategy that led to a $2 billion loss. Page D1.
 
U.S. Industry's Strong Pace
 High production levels, and their inflationary impact, revived forecasts of an interest-rate rise. Page D1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (86%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



454 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: QUAKE IN JAPAN: PAYING FOR IT;
Whatever the Repair Bill, Insurance Companies Spread the Cost Around

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
Japanese insurance companies have learned to protect themselves against massive losses from earthquakes and will bear very little of the burden of rebuilding the area devastated by the earthquake near Kobe.
Instead, Japanese homeowners and companies have been left to bear the brunt of property damages from the earthquake themselves, or to rely on help from the Government. 
 Even so, analysts expect that the latest earthquake will result in higher premiums for individuals and businesses around the world.
"The Californian who was looking to buy a home and was already finding it hard to get coverage is likely to find it even harder as a result of the Japanese earthquake," said Sean Mooney, chief economist for the Insurance Information Institute.
After last year's earthquake in Northridge, Calif., where insured losses are now estimated at more than $10 billion and still rising, most insurers in the state stopped accepting new customers and have applied with state regulators to double the price of earthquake insurance. Allstate, the second largest insurer in the state, yesterday raised its own estimated loss to $1.5 billion.
American insurers, with a few exceptions like the American International Group, do not have enough business in Japan to face significant losses from the earthquake there. But they do rely on other companies, called reinsurance companies, to sell policies that cover very large losses from catastrophes like earthquakes.
Such disasters have become much more frequent in the past several years, and each new event pushes reinsurers to raise their prices or cut back on the amount of coverage they sell. Insurance companies that deal directly with individuals or businesses must then either pass on those changes to their customers or accept greater risk of loss.
Although Japanese are avid buyers of insurance, spending far more per person on life insurance than Americans, they have been forced by their geological circumstances to accept the risk of earthquakes.
Harold Talbot, a managing director in charge of Japanese business at Guy Carpenter & Company, a reinsurance broker, noted that the frequency of earthquakes in many highly developed parts of Japan means that there is not enough insurance capacity in the world to fully insure Japanese households and industry. Guy Carpenter is a subsidiary of the Marsh & McLennan Companies, the world's largest insurance broker.
To limit their risk of loss from earthquakes, Takeshi Sanuki, manager of the New York office of Taisei Fire & Marine, noted that companies follow "very tough underwriting standards," meaning that they simply decline to sell insurance for buildings they think are especially vulnerable to earthquakes. Another defense is to charge very high prices.
Although the Japanese Government is the major backer for an insurance industry pool to share losses of up to $18 billion in homeowners insurance, earthquake insurance is not widespread in Japan. In 1990, the latest year for which data was available, fewer than 8 percent of Japanese homes had earthquake insurance.
Because there is no government safety net for earthquake insurance policies for businesses, Japanese insurers carefully limit the amount they will sell. In the risky Tokyo area, earthquake policies are limited to only 15 percent of the amount of fire insurance. In the district that includes Kobe, earthquake coverage is limited to 30 percent of fire insurance.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Insurers put the damage caused by the quake in Japan as high as $20 billion, but the figure is tentative. Kinko Nakazato called for help yesterday from her shattered Kobe apartment, where she was trapped for 20 hours. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (90%); MMC (NYSE) (84%); MHM (LSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (68%); 8685 (TSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (90%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (51%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: KOBE, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (90%); MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (84%); GUY CARPENTER & CO LLC (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (68%); TAISEI FIRE & MARINE INSURANCE CO LTD (51%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOBE (JAPAN); JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); KINKI, JAPAN (79%); KOBE, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; PROPERTY INSURANCE; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; INSURANCE INSURANCE (97%); EARTHQUAKES (91%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); REINSURANCE (90%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (90%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); PROPERTY CRIMES (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



455 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: QUAKE IN JAPAN: THE AMERICANS;
One American Reported Dead Among 20,000 in Quake Area

BYLINE: KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Initial reports of American casualties from the earthquake in Japan put the death toll at one, out of an estimated 20,000 in the affected region, the United States Embassy in Tokyo said today. In most cases American businesses with operations in the Osaka-Kobe region said damage to their operations appeared to be slight.
Shortly after news of the quake reached the United States, the State Department set up telephone lines and a task force yesterday to handle calls about the disaster. 
 The embassy in Tokyo withheld details about the American death pending notification of next of kin. The Yomiuri Shimbun, Japan's largest newspaper, said an American woman named Bonnie Wong, a resident of Ashiya City, had been killed. It was not immediately clear whether the newspaper was referring to the person whose death had been announced by the embassy.
American companies spent a good part of yesterday trying to make contact with their employees, and get an initial reading on damage to plants and equipment.
"We have been in touch with 60 percent to 70 percent of our employees, and found no injuries among them," said Fritz Frommeyer, a spokesman for Eli Lily & Company. Lily employs about 700 people in Japan, 250 in the Kobe area. Few of the company's employees in Japan, or in Kobe, are Americans, Mr. Frommeyer said.
But Lily, which investment bankers familiar with Japan said yesterday has the largest presence in the region of any American company, did not escape unscathed.
The company's headquarters, two floors it leased in a Kobe office building, suffered "fairly extensive damage," Mr. Frommeyer said. And a laboratory and production-distribution center in Seishin, a Kobe suburb, was damaged but is still standing.
The Seishin center was scheduled to begin production operations in March. For now, those plans have been put on hold, Mr. Frommeyer said.
Proctor & Gamble, which also has its Japan headquarters in Kobe as well as a paper manufacturing plant in nearby Akashi, where among other products it makes Pampers diapers, said its installations had suffered limited damage.
"We are not aware of any injuries to our employees," said Terry Loftus, a company spokesman.
A joint venture of Texas Instruments with Kobe Steel, Ltd. located 30 miles north of Kobe, also apparently escaped structural damage and injuries to its 400 employees.
Buddy Price, a Texas Instruments' spokesman, said the plant, which is 25 percent owned by the Dallas-based company, had temporarily shut down pending repairs on production equipment that shifted during the quake.
Major oil companies said operations in the area had also been shut down temporarily.
Cynthia Michener, a Texaco spokeswoman, said an Osaka refinery in which Texaco has an interest had been shut down to assess damage, which was thought to be minor.
At the Exxon Corporation, Tom Cirigliano, a spokesman, said all the company's employees "have been accounted for."
Two refineries in the area in which Exxon has a major interest were "slightly affected," Mr. Cirigliano said, adding that gasoline delivery was disrupted and that a "small number" of gasoline stations owned by Japanese affiliates were damaged.
Caterpillar Inc., the giant construction equipment company, was not so lucky.
Yesterday the Peoria, Ill.-based company reported that a joint venture plant it owns with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and a nearby hydraulic excavator design center had been damaged and temporarily closed. No one was injured, Caterpillar said.
The rapid response to the disaster by Washington and the private sector underscores the economic interdependence of the United States and Japan, links that in this case were threatened by natural forces instead of man-made ones like tariffs and quotas.
 
Hot Lines Are Set Up
 By The Associated Press
 The United States Government has a hot line for Americans who want to inquire about the safety of friends or relatives after the earthquake in Japan. That number is (202) 647-0900. To find out about American military personnel in Japan, friends or relatives can call (703) 697-5737.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 5406 (TSE) (84%); XOM (NYSE) (60%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); TXN (NASDAQ) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331529 OTHER NONFERROUS METAL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT DIE-CASTING) (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3369 NONFERROUS FOUNDRIES, EXCEPT ALUMINUM & COPPER (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (60%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (52%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KOBE STEEL LTD (84%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (60%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); JAPAN HEADQUARTERS (53%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; KOBE (JAPAN); OSAKA (JAPAN); UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); KINKI, JAPAN (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES EARTHQUAKES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PAPER MILLS (67%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%); PAPER MFG (50%); 

PERSON: WONG, BONNIE; GILPIN, KENNETH N FRITZ FROMMEYER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



456 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Eases Crisis, Selling All Bonds Offered

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Mexico's halting economic recovery passed a crucial test of confidence today as foreign and domestic investors bought $400 million worth of a type of Government bond that had prompted nervousness only last week.
In a similar auction last Tuesday, only 20 percent of the bonds the Government offered were sold, sending signals of uncertainty that caused Mexican stocks to plummet. 
 But despite the apparent success of today's bond auction, other concerns about the crippling effect of high interest rates on Mexican banks, and the growing list of possible demands that might be attached to a loan-guarantee package from the United States, held down the stock market, which dropped nearly 1.5 percent.
The value of the peso against the dollar strengthened, however. Mexico's central bank gave the closing rate here at 5.3 to the dollar, compared with 5.53 yesterday, and in late New York trading, the peso was a little stronger yet, at 5.25 to the dollar. The currency's devaluation from a level of 3.46 to the dollar less than a month ago set off the current financial crisis.
Today's bond auction was a do-or-die event for Mexico. The bonds up for sale, called tesobonos, are paid off in pesos but indexed to the dollar-peso exchange rate. About $28 billion worth of such bonds fall due this year, and the peso's devaluation created uncertainty about Mexico's ability to meet those obligations. In the last four auctions, held weekly on Tuesday, the Government was unable to sell all the bonds it offered.
Mexican officials were determined not to make mistakes with today's auction. On Monday night, about two dozen fund managers from the United States and other countries were invited to the executive mansion for dinner with President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon and other high-ranking Government officials.
Mr. Zedillo explained the economic-recovery plan in detail. "People were pretty positively impressed," said an American investor at the dinner.
To insure sufficient demand, the Government initially pared the amount of bonds it would auction to $300 million, compared with $400 million on the block last week. It was reported willing to give virtually whatever interest rate investors demanded to make sure that all the bonds were taken.
Some analysts said they further suspected that Mexico's development bank had taken part in the auction today to make sure that everything offered was sold.
At an auction like today's, investors choose the interest rate at which they are willing to buy bonds. Depending on the demand, the Government then decides how much to sell and at what rate. Today, it settled on rates just shy of 20 percent for bonds with terms of 91 days, six months and a year. Investors had anticipated higher rates, but were satisfied enough to take all $300 million offered as well as $100 million more that was made available when the results looked favorable.
The country's bond problems had been diluted somewhat on Monday, when the Mexican central bank removed $1.06 billion worth of bonds from the market in swaps with Mexican commercial banks.
"All this was taken as a very good signal," said Francisco Blanco, director of analysis at Arka, a brokerage firm here. "But it's still too early to think that this is any kind of lasting trend."
On the stock exchange today, the benchmark index fell 33.52 points, closing at 2,209.49
An explanation was offered by Jaime Campbell of C.B.I. brokerage here. "The market is tired," he said. "The bottom fell out last Wednesday, and then in five days it recuperated about 15 percent. You shouldn't be ashamed of taking a profit of 15 percent in one week."
Many investors remain worried about details of the loan-guarantee package from Washington. The United States has not yet made clear what Mexico will pay for the guarantees. American officials have said it could be as much as 10 percent of the loans.
Many Mexicans have been offended by reports that some members of the United States Congress are seeking further concessions from Mexico like commitments to reduce illegal immigration or to use Mexican oil revenue as collateral.
In an interview today in El Financiero, a business daily here, the central bank's president, Miguel Mancera Aguayo, said he and the country's foreign and finance ministers had traveled to Washington on Sunday "to explain, not to negotiate" Mexico's needs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT; BANKS AND BANKING; CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (94%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US DOLLAR (75%); TRENDS (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); EXCHANGE RATES (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



457 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Crisis Seen Spurring Flow of Aliens

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
With its $40 billion rescue plan for Mexico running into opposition from members of President Clinton's own party, the Administration told leaders of Congress today that the number of illegal immigrants crossing the border into Texas and California would increase by 430,000 this year if the Mexican financial crisis deepened.
That estimate would mean a rise of 30 percent over earlier projections of illegal 1995 border crossings, as Mexican workers are drawn to a dollar that has become 35 percent more valuable relative to the peso since the devaluation of the Mexican currency began just before Christmas. 
 But the numbers did little to quell growing objections to the rescue. The opposition is led by Democrats who were pressured to vote for the North American Free Trade Agreement in 1993 and who now say American taxpayer dollars should not be put at risk to bail out one of the country's economic competitors.
Under the President's plan, announced last week, the United States would offer Mexico loan guarantees of up to $40 billion, meaning that the Treasury would have to lay out money only if Mexico defaulted on any of its huge borrowings.
The Administration has declined to say how much of a fee, akin to an insurance premium, Mexico will be asked to pay the United States in return for the loan guarantees.
But participants in meetings that lawmakers held on Capitol Hill today with Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin and the chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, said that to build support for the program, the Administration had set a steep price: about 8 percent of the amount of the loan guarantees. That means that if Mexico used the full guarantees, it would pay the United States Treasury about $3.2 billion, money the Government would pocket as a profit if the loans were repaid.
Mr. Clinton's plan was initially endorsed by top Republicans, led by the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas. But today Mr. Dole seemed to back away, saying the President should not depend on Republicans to pass legislation authorizing the bailout program unless he could bring along Democrats.
"He needs to work within his party," Mr. Dole said. "We're not going to carry the whole load here and get hung out to dry."
The White House tried to minimize the depth of the opposition and said Mr. Clinton would probably meet with members of Congress on Wednesday to win support. The Administration hopes to bring the authorizing legislation to Congressional votes within a week or so, Administration officials said.
"The President is very encouraged by what he's heard from his Treasury Secretary about the discussions on the deal with members of Congress concerning the loan guarantee package," said Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, who was traveling with Mr. Clinton in California. "They gave a very positive response. It's been very reassuring to the markets and financial experts. Conversations with the Government of Mexico have been very positive, and they understand that we are going to have some concerns that will be raised in the provision of these guarantees. Those discussions are proceeding."
But participants in today's meetings on Capitol Hill provided a less enthusiastic account. By this account, several Democratic lawmakers told Administration officials that they were unconvinced that the bailout would help anyone except wealthy investors who had bought Mexico's short-term Government bonds, which were used to cover the country's growing long-term debt.
"We must not be sending money to Mexico just to prop up a nation with the fastest-growing number of billionaires in the world," said Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the House Democratic whip.
Mr. Bonior has asked the Administration to establish much more stringent conditions for the loan guarantees, including promises by Mexico to buy more American products and an agreement that Mexican wages will be tied to increases in productivity, a step that the Mexican authorities fear would fuel inflation in their rapidly growing country.
The tensions the Administration faces within its own party were evident at one session today when Lawrence Summers, the Under Secretary of the Treasury, was asked why the United States was not demanding that Mexico put up collateral, in the form of shares in the nationally held oil company, Pemex, which is considered the crown jewel of the Mexican economy.
"The Government would fall," a participant in the meeting quoted Mr. Summers as responding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; GOVERNMENT BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS IMMIGRATION (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (87%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); REFUGEES (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CURRENCIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); BONDS (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (51%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



458 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: In Michigan, Uncertainty and Unhappiness Over New Method to Finance the Schools

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SOUTHFIELD, Mich., Jan. 17

 BODY:
For two years, the symbol of the need to change the state's method of financing public education was the rural northern Michigan school district of Kalkaska, which ran out of money in March 1993 and closed until the fall term. Voters in the district had repeatedly refused to raise their property taxes, which financed education.
So it might seem that Doyle Disbrow, the Kalkaska superintendent of schools, would be an enthusiastic backer of Michigan's new education financing plan, which guarantees the state's 570 school districts at least $4,200 a year for each pupil. 
 He is not.
"I would not support it; I will never support it," Mr. Disbrow said, calling the new system underfinanced.
"It hasn't hurt us," he said of the plan, which went into effect last May and is known as Proposal A, "but it didn't help us either."
Kalkaska, a working-class and resort district of 2,100 students, had been spending an average of $3,800 a year per pupil, Mr. Disbrow said, and much of the extra $400 a pupil it now receives goes for additional costs imposed by the plan.
When Michigan residents voted 10 months ago to amend their state Constitution to replace the 100-year-old property tax method of financing public schools with the experimental state-financed system, they drew national attention.
Republicans, including Patricia A. Woodworth, then the Michigan Director of Management and Budget, praised Proposal A as a model for fairer, securer financing of education.
Admirers of Ms. Woodworth cited her role in Proposal A when Gov. George E. Pataki of New York asked her to leave her Michigan's post to become New York State's budget director. But John Truscott, a spokesman for Gov. John Engler, said last week that she had little involvement with the plan. Through a spokeswoman, Ms. Woodworth declined comment.
The constitutional amendment, which received 69 percent approval, permanently reduced property taxes when inflation is taken into account and raised the sales tax to 6 percent from 4 percent. Taxes on tobacco products were also raised to help finance schools.
Some Michigan educators like Mr. Disbrow note that the plan saddles districts with new expenses, including the costs of employees' Social Security and retirement plans, which had previously been paid by the state.
Educators also worry that the state school tax revenue may not be sufficient when the economy is in a slump. And some administrators fear that the state financing of schools will mean a gradual end to local control and lead to a decline to the quality of education in richer districts.
Ruth Beier, an economic research consultant for the Michigan Education Association, a union representing about 90 percent of the state's teachers, said: "The whole idea was not to reform education as much as it was to cut property taxes. The goal was also to achieve some kind of equity, but there is, in general, a huge misunderstanding of how Proposal A works."
Many voters believed that they would no longer have to pay any school property tax, Ms. Beier said, and were startled to learn after Proposal A passed that they would still have to approve some property taxes for their schools to maintain the same spending per pupil. But districts that spent considerably more than the average are now prevented from increasing spending by more than 1.5 percent a year.
Angry voters here in Southfield, one of Detroit's larger suburban districts, voted down a school property tax renewal last spring soon after Proposal A was passed. But voters changed their minds a month later after the district slashed school spending and pleaded with residents.
The Administration of Governor Engler, a Republican, was not sympathetic. "Southfield was what was wrong with the system before," said Bobbie McKennon, a special assistant to State Treasurer Douglas Roberts, a major architect of Proposal A.
Because Southfield has a lot of commercial property, Ms. McKennon said, "residents were unfairly taking advantage of business" and, as a result, homeowners were paying comparatively little for their children's expensive education.
Under Proposal A, the state based its payments to districts on the rate of their previous spending, so that payments range up to $6,500 a pupil. Districts are required to levy a minimal amount of school property tax, which is slightly less than one-third of the former average. The state is paying 79 percent of total public school costs as against 33 percent previously.
Districts are also limited in how much revenue they can collect from commercial property. If a district that spends more than $6,500 a student wants to increase property taxes, it can usually do so only by leveling additional property taxes on homeowners.
As a result, Ms. McKennon said, homeowners in the Southfield district, which currently spends $9,470 a student, may see very little reduction in their property taxes.
In Birmingham, a fashionable Detroit suburb that spends $10,390 per pupil, Robert Lentz, principal of Birmingham Groves High School, said he feared a loss of autonomy.
"The state is becoming much more of a factor in day-to-day operations, and people who are disbursing the money can call the shots," Mr. Lentz said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "THE IMPACT: Paying for Schools in Michigan" shows results of the shift of school financing away from local property taes and increased state sales tax. (Sources: Michigan Department of Treasury)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LANSING, MI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PROPOSAL A (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROPOSAL A (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN; UNITED STATES (99%); MICHIGAN, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LANSING, MI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; SALES TAX PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SALES TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TEACHER UNIONS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (50%); 

PERSON: DOYLE DISBROW (71%); BOBBIE MCKENNON (57%); PATRICIA A WOODWORTH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



459 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Russia Assures Anxious U.S. Of Its Commitment to Reforms

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Russia's Foreign Minister assured Secretary of State Warren Christopher of his country's commitment to democracy and market reform and its determination to negotiate a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Chechnya, but did not say what concrete steps his country intended to take, senior Administration officials said tonight.
The sweeping but vague assurances by Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev came during a three-hour dinner with Mr. Christopher that opened two days of intense discussions to repair a relationship between the two countries that was declining even before Russia's military offensive in the breakaway region of Chechnya. 
 During the private dinner Mr. Christopher stressed that the Chechnya crisis was having a negative impact on the American public and that Russia needed to find a solution now, a senior official said.
"He gave Kozyrev this strong advice: 'Find a way out of this politically so you can have a normal relationship with other countries,' " a senior official paraphrased Mr. Christopher as saying.
Mr. Kozyrev agreed, but then laid out the obstacles. He said, for example, that Russia wants to hold peace talks, but cannot find Chechen leaders willing to negotiate. And although Mr. Kozyrev said that Russia was willing to allow the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe to play a "significant role" in resolving the crisis, he did not say how.
In laying out the Administration's view today, Mr. Christopher struggled to deliver a two-pronged message: praise for Russia's leaders but a criticism of their policies.
It was a difficult exercise, Administration officials admitted, and one that a senior European diplomat portrayed in theological terms. "It's hate the sin but love the sinner," he said.
At a news conference just before dinner with Mr. Kozyrev, Mr. Christopher alluded to several issues that have put the Russian-American relationship on a downward spiral for the past several months: its determination to sell arms to Iran, its eagerness to end the international embargo against Iraq, its refusal to provide information about its chemical weapons program and, most important, its unwillingness to halt attacks on civilians in prosecuting its war in Chechnya.
But Mr. Christopher brushed aside criticism that the United States was too closely tied to Mr. Yeltsin, not only because he is the first elected President in Russia, but also because he is "the most committed democrat in the country who is in a high position."
The assessment of Yeltsin-as-democrat contrasts sharply with an analysis by the Central Intelligence Agency last month, just after the war in Chechnya began.
The analysis concluded that Mr. Yeltsin had "retreated to a small circle of advisers" and laid out four negative scenarios for what it called a "major turning point" for the Yeltsin Government: that Mr. Yeltsin would become a figurehead with hard-liners dictating policy, that he would be deposed by hard-liners who will impose emergency rule and suspend the Constitution, that he would become an "authoritarian" ruler who imposes emergency rule to deal with the Chechen crisis, or that he would dismiss several advisers in an effort to show the world that he is back in charge.
[In Washington, the acting Director of Central Intelligence, William O. Studeman, predicted on Tuesday that the war in Chechnya would bring far-reaching realignments in the Kremlin. "One might perhaps project that the major power brokers may have to be sacrificed," he said.]
The two days of meetings were scheduled at Mr. Kozyrev's suggestion at an all-European summit meeting in Budapest last month, after Mr. Yeltsin infuriated Mr. Clinton by denouncing NATO expansion as anti-Russian and warned of the dangers of a one-superpower world. A few days before, Mr. Kozyrev had stunned NATO by refusing to sign on to a plan for ushering Russia into military cooperation with it.
Mr. Kozyrev told Mr. Christopher that the two of them had to try to get the relationship back on track. A few days later, Russia sent its tanks, planes and artillery into Chechnya, a move that has put the relationship with Washington under its greatest strain since Russia became an independent state.
In Geneva, Mr. Kozyrev and Mr. Christopher have accentuated the positive. Mr. Kozyrev said shortly after arriving in Geneva on Monday that Russia would not allow the "tragedy" in Chechnya to derail relations between Washington and Moscow. "We are not going to talk tough to each other," he said of his meetings with Mr. Christopher.
During their dinner tonight, Mr. Christopher thanked Mr. Kozyrev for Mr. Yeltsin's invitation to Moscow in May for a celebration of the 50th anniversary of V-E Day, the Allied victory over Germany.
Mr. Christopher told him that for the moment, President Clinton could not make a firm commitment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); TRENDS (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (70%); ARMS TRADE (66%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN); CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); SCIOLINO, ELAINE WARREN CHRISTOPHER (95%); ANDREI V KOZYREV (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



460 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 847 words

HEADLINE: A Grand Party as Gov. Bush Is Sworn In

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 17

 BODY:
George Walker Bush was sworn in as Texas's 46th Governor today, vowing to "use every resource at my disposal to make the Federal Government in Washington heed this simple truth: Texans can run Texas."
The 48-year-old Mr. Bush, only the state's second Republican Governor since Reconstruction, strode to the podium under raised swords and the six flags of Texas with his wife, Laura, followed by his twin teen-age daughters, Jenna and Barbara. Later they celebrated with a parade, three inaugural balls, a barbecue and a Mexican-style luncheon on the State Capitol grounds for roughly 9,000 of his closest friends. 
 Former President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, sat beaming in the front row of the podium as their eldest son was sworn in.
Governor Bush's predecessor, Ann W. Richards, the Democrat whom he ousted in November's election, was not present at the swearing-in, an absence that aides to her and Mr. Bush said was customary for departing governors. Mr. Bush praised her in his speech for giving "heart to those who battle adversity and hope to those who wonder if opportunity is limited."
Ms. Richards, who vacated the Governor's mansion last week, was in California today working on future plans that are expected to keep her in the public eye, on the speech circuit and in television commercials. She says she has no intention of running for public office again.
After acknowledging his family, Governor Bush introduced five "special guests," the Mexican Governors of states along or near the Texas border.
"Their presence is a clear sign of the importance of the relationship between Texas and Mexico," Mr. Bush said. "Friends bring out the best in each other. May our friendship bring much good to both of our countries."
Mexico gets about half of all its American imports from Texas. During his campaign, Mr. Bush repeatedly emphasized his state's economic and cultural links to Mexico and said he would oppose any measure like California's Proposition 187 aimed at cracking down on services to illegal immigrants.
Minutes before Mr. Bush was sworn in, Chief Justice Thomas R. Phillips administered the oath to the popularly elected Lieutenant Governor, Bob Bullock, a Democrat who has broad powers under the state's constitution. Mr. Bush and Mr. Bullock will have to negotiate a potentially thorny agenda in the coming weeks that includes everything from a welfare overhaul and school financing to a court-ordered Congressional redistricting plan.
Today's inaugural marked the beginning of a new era of political ascendancy for the Grand Old Party in Texas. For the first time, the Governor and two United States Senators are Republicans.
In his brief speech, Mr. Bush offered no specific promises, although he said he wants to usher in an era of "personal responsibility." And he suggested that changing a welfare system that "diminishes personal responsibility and rewards illegitimacy" would be a top priority.
"For the last 30 years, our culture has steadily replaced personal responsibility with collective guilt," he said. "The new freedom Texas seeks must be matched with renewed personal responsibility. The very future of our society depends on it."
The new Governor also contended that Federal requirements were too burdensome on the states, and he vowed to fight for tort revamping that would bring a halt to "junk lawsuits that clog our courts and threaten our producers."
Mr. Bush, who has resigned his position as managing partner of the Texas Rangers baseball club, has never held elective office before.
"He doesn't have much of a track record, but it looks as if his style is closer to his father than to Newt Gingrich in the sense that he's taken relatively modest positions on a lot of issues," said Bruce Buchanan, a professor of government at the University of Texas at Austin. "This guy is more likely to be a moderate centrist than a firebrand."
The invocation at the noontime swearing-in was delivered by the Rev. Billy Graham. After the service, Mr. Bush held a private luncheon at the Governor's Mansion and then attended an inaugural parade downtown.
Among those in the crowd today, dressed in his trademark 10-gallon hat, was Clayton Williams, who narrowly lost to Ms. Richards four years ago in a memorably raucous campaign that made last November's encounter seem downright genteel by comparison. "I made some mistakes," said Mr. Williams, a West Texas oilman. "I've drilled dry holes before. You make them, you fill them and you go forward."
At the inaugural balls and at a gala Monday night, titled "What Texans Can Dream, Texans Can Do" (a line Mr. Bush used over and over on the campaign trail), country was the dominant music form. Among the entertainers were the Dixie Chicks, the Oak Ridge Boys, the Geezinslaw Brothers, and Johnny D and the Rocket 88's.
Asked on Monday if he had taken dancing lessons to prepare for today's celebrations, Mr. Bush said only: "The last time I danced was when I got married. This will be the last time I dance for probably another 17 years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: George Walker Bush and his wife, Laura, striding to the podium where he was sworn in yesterday as Governor of Texas. Following, beneath the arched swords of the Ross Volunteers, were Lieut. Gov. Bob Bullock, and his wife, Jan, and Mr. Bush's parents, former President George Bush and his wife, Barbara. Mr. Bush is only the second Republican Governor of Texas since Reconstruction. (Associated Press)
 
"Chart: "LEGACIES: Fathers' Footsteps: Other Political Families"
 George W. Bush, the new Governor of Texas, is the first Presidential offspring to be elected governor of a state. In addition to Mr. Bush, there have been one President, two Senators and six members of the House of Representatives whose fathers were President. Chart lists examples. (Source: "Facts About the Presidents," Joseph Nathan Kane.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); 

CITY: MADISON, WI, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; MEXICO; UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (99%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INAUGURATIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (63%); IMMIGRATION (63%); REDISTRICTING (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) GEORGE W BUSH (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



461 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: THE 104TH CONGRESS: LOBBYING;
The 'Contract' Gets New Ally On the Right

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
Muffling for the time being the Christian Coalition's rallying cries on school prayer, abortion and homosexuality, the group's leader said today that the coalition would mount its most ambitious lobbying drive ever for passage of the House Republicans' legislative agenda.
In an address at the Detroit Economic Club, Ralph Reed, the group's executive director, said religious conservatives deserved credit for the Republican successes at the polls last November. And he made it clear that his group expected to be a central player in pressing for the Republicans' "Contract With America." 
 "We will launch the largest single lobbying effort in our history," Mr. Reed said, "beginning tomorrow when all 50 of our state chairmen fly to Washington to personally work for passage of the balanced budget amendment."
Mr. Reed said the coalition would spend more than $1 million on a lobbying campaign through "phone banks, fax networks, satellite television, computerized bulletin boards, talk radio and direct mail." Just as the group distributed literature in the 1994 elections on candidates' positions on issues, Mr. Reed said it would publish more than 60 million pieces of literature in the next two years "informing people of faith" how lawmakers voted on elements of the contract.
His speech today at a club that is a meeting place for Detroit's business establishment was Mr. Reed's latest effort to win broader acceptance for his organization and to expand its purview beyond a short list of social matters.
"Ralph Reed and the Christian Coalition have cast their lot with the Republican Party," said John C. Green, a political science professor at the University of Akron who is an authority on religious conservatives. "The Republican control of Congress makes it more likely that their agendas will be dealt with."
While the coalition did not embrace the contract -- the blueprint on which many House Republican candidates, including the new Speaker, Newt Gingrich, ran in last year's campaign -- the group's shift in tactics to seek greater legitimacy by highlighting economic issues was apparent within months after President Clinton's election. At that time, the coalition mobilized against the Administration's budget and economic proposals, and later opposed Mr. Clinton's health care plan.
In today's speech, Mr. Reed said his group's concerns are "much broader than voluntary school prayer" and include "limiting the size of government, replacing the welfare state with a compassionate society and securing religious freedom for all."
Mr. Reed also made clear that the Christian Coalition would continue to inject itself into the political fray. In the speech, he recalled the Democratic attacks on religious conservatives in the campaign last fall and called on Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, who Mr. Clinton picked last week to head the Democratic National Committee, to "repudiate the religious bigotry employed by your party during the last campaign."
In response, Senator Dodd said that "intolerance of any kind is unacceptable," and that he hoped Mr. Reed's challenge "applies to all political points of view."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Reed

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHRISTIAN COALITION DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (50%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRISTIAN COALITION CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); CHRISTIAN COALITION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); CHURCH & STATE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGION IN SCHOOLS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); DIRECT MAIL MARKETING (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: REED, RALPH; BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



462 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: Affirmative Action Challenge Seems to Perplex High Court

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
As a vehicle for a major Supreme Court pronouncement on the constitutionality of Government-sponsored affirmative action, a case that came before the Court today appeared an unlikely, even a poor candidate by the end of an hourlong argument that left some of the Court's strongest opponents of affirmative action visibly frustrated.
"We may have a case here in which we can't decide an issue we thought we were going to decide," Justice Antonin Scalia said at one point after Solicitor General Drew S. Days 3d, defending the highway construction program at issue on behalf of the Clinton Administration, said the case might not properly be before the Court. 
 Based on the Constitution's guarantee of equal protection, the case is a challenge by a white contractor to a Federal program that offers a financial bonus to general contractors on Federal projects who subcontract part of the work to small companies that have been certified as "disadvantaged business enterprises."
The white-owned construction company, Adarand Constructors, of Colorado Springs, underbid a Hispanic-owned company by $1,700 on a $100,000 Federal highway guardrail project in southwestern Colorado. But Adarand lost the job because the general contractor chose to earn a $10,000 bonus by hiring the "disadvantaged business," the Gonzales Construction Company.
Under the Federal Small Business Act and a 1987 Federal highway law, the category of "disadvantaged business enterprise" is not based exclusively on race and can include white-owned companies. Companies owned by members of racial and ethnic minority groups are presumed to be "socially and economically disadvantaged," although that presumption is open to challenge as applied to any particular company. Adarand did not bring such a challenge but went to Federal court with its constitutional case instead, challenging what it described as an unconstitutional preference on the basis of race.
Two lower Federal courts in Colorado ruled against the company on the basis of Supreme Court precedent. So when the Justices agreed last September to hear Adarand's appeal, the constitutional and practical stakes were obviously substantial, not only for Adarand and the small business contracting program but for the increasingly tenuous underpinning for Government-sponsored affirmative action in general.
Support on the Court for affirmative action, never enthusiastic even when the Court's membership was markedly more liberal, has dwindled to the vanishing point over the last five years. Minority set-aside programs administered by state and local governments must meet stringent tests under a 1989 Supreme Court decision, City of Richmond v. Croson. Federal Government programs have remained subject to a less exacting standard of review, but the Court's willingness to adhere to those precedents is open to substantial question.
But the moment of truth for Federal affirmative action may not yet have arrived. The argument today made clear that the Adarand case has procedural problems and factual idiosyncracies that threaten either to derail it or to produce a decision of less than sweeping significance.
The most obvious problem is the question of whether Adarand had standing to bring its challenge in the first place, since it failed to show in the lower courts that the Gonzales Construction Company had been included in the "disadvantaged business" category because of race or that it did not deserve to be on the list for racially neutral reasons.
Several Justices suggested by their questions that since Adarand is challenging the presumptive equation of race with economic disadvantage, it should be required to show that the presumption worked to Adarand's disadvantage in this case and that Gonzales did not have another valid basis for its inclusion on the special subcontractor list. The Clinton Administration has strongly argued this point in its effort to minimize the potential impact of the case.
Another factor that makes a sweeping ruling less likely is the operation of the law itself, which does not work as a mandatory set-aside or numerical quota. The Small Business Act program differs from the program the Court considered in its most directly relevant precedent, a 1980 decision called Fullilove v. Klutznick, in which the Court upheld a requirement that 10 percent of the money spent on a Federal public works program go to companies owned by members of minority groups.
Under the Small Business Act, by contrast, the general contractors are not required to participate, and race gives only a presumptive rather than an automatic preference.
William Perry Pendley, the Adarand company's lawyer, had apparently made a strategic decision not to ask the Court to overrule the Fullilove decision in this case, Adarand Constructors v. Pena, No. 93-1841. But that left him in the awkward position of arguing that the Court could strike down the Small Business Act program without disturbing the Fullilove precedent.
"But how can you say that?" Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg asked Mr. Pendley. "Fullilove involved a straight-out set-aside, with no flexibility at all," she continued. "Here, it's as flexible as possible."
Mr. Pendley replied that the prime contractor is "economically compelled" as a practical matter to agree to hire a minority subcontractor in order to qualify for the bonus, which can be as much as 2 percent of the total contract. He also argued that the law's provision for challenges to be brought to the designation of a minority-owned company as a disadvantaged business enterprise was "not consistent with the real world" because, without subpoena power or the ability to gather information, small white-owned companies like his client could not make such challenges.
Several Justices, including Sandra Day O'Connor, whose vote may well control the outcome of the case, questioned Solicitor General Days closely about the means for bringing challenges. Mr. Days said the regulations for the program listed 25 reasons for removing a company's eligibility to participate. He said that "hundreds" of companies have been removed. But he could not cite a specific challenge that had been brought by a competing subcontractor.
"What limit is there, if any, to the Government's ability to use race as a presumption in its programs?" Justice Scalia asked Mr. Days. He asked whether the space program, with a "critical need for perfection," could employ a presumption that whites, because they are generally better educated, should be hired, although non-whites would be free to try to prove that they were qualified.
"You're overlooking the remedial purpose" of the contracting program at issue, Mr. Days replied. He said that had a "unique and comprehensive power to legislate to remedy the effects of racial discrimination."
"No question," Justice Scalia said, "but can it do it through race-based presumptions?"
Yes, Mr. Days replied, citing the Fullilove case as a precedent.
There was one light moment during the argument, when Justice David H. Souter asked Mr. Pendley to identify the "flaw" in the statute. Justice Souter is a New Hampshire native who, like his fellow northern New Englanders, drops final "r's" from some words and adds them to others.
Mr. Pendley looked puzzled. "Excuse me, the floor?" he repeated.
No, flaw, Justice Souter said, this time in standard English. "Excuse me, it's my regional accent," he said, grinning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (92%); 

CITY: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS; GONZALES CONSTRUCTION CO CONSTRUCTION CO NO 1 (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADARAND CONSTRUCTORS; GONZALES CONSTRUCTION CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COLORADO, USA (92%); COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BONUSES AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (94%); CONSTRUCTION (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (89%); APPEALS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (88%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (88%); EQUAL PROTECTION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (75%); LAWYERS (75%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (75%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); RACE & RACISM (72%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (67%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); 

PERSON: DAYS, DREW S 3D (SOLICITOR GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ANTONIN SCALIA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



463 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Acts To Stave Off School Cuts

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
Acknowledging for the first time that the city schools cannot handle further funding cuts before the summer, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the city would borrow money to help close its budget gap instead of turning to the Board of Education to find savings this school year.
But the plan prompted a major credit-rating agency to put the city on a negative credit watch, which is one step short of lowering the city's credit rating. The agency, Standard & Poor's, said the city's intention to save $120 million by borrowing to pay off debt owed on Feb. 1 is a fiscal gimmick that simply shifts the cost to future years. 
 If the rating were lowered, that would make it more costly for the city to do business because its bonds, which it issues to borrow money, would be more expensive and more difficult to sell to investors. It would also be a blow to Mr. Giuliani, who has already slashed $2 billion from city spending and has held himself out as more fiscally prudent than his predecessors.
The Mayor's retreat from more Board of Education cuts underscored both the practical difficulties and the political pain of grappling with fiscal problems that have left the city still trying to close a $650 million gap in the fiscal year that ends in June.
Although the Mayor has repeatedly insisted that bureaucratic bloat remains at the Board of Education, his stand has caused him problems with the City Council and brought growing protests from parents.
Sandra Feldman, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, has mounted a campaign to stave off mid-year school budget cuts. Bert Shanas, a spokesman for the teachers union, said Ms. Feldman had spent hours on the telephone with city officials, including Peter J. Powers, the First Deputy Mayor, and Randy L. Levine, the Labor Commissioner.
She even called them from Brussels yesterday morning, where she was attending a conference of an international teachers union.
"The Mayor realized that mid-year cuts at the board would be very destructive to the children and the classrooms," Mr. Powers said at a City Hall news conference, adding that the Mayor's flexibility showed that he meant it when he pledged in his annual address to the Council last week that he was open to other ideas.
"He spoke to a lot of people who believe -- and convinced him -- that it would be destructive at this point in time," Mr. Powers said.
Mr. Powers also acknowledged that eliminating Board of Education workers this late in the fiscal year would bring little practical savings, because it would take weeks to remove them from the payroll and would result in costs for unemployment insurance and cumulative leave time.
At an impromptu news conference earlier in the day, Mr. Giuliani stressed that Schools Chancellor Ramon C. Cortines had agreed to make $120 million in savings in the next fiscal year on top of any other cuts that the city will require then.
Mr. Cortines yesterday praised the Mayor for deferring the cuts. "This is very good news, and I am deeply appreciative of the Mayor's efforts to make it happen," he said.
Other city officials said they saw the Mayor's decision to link the borrowing to relief for the Board of Education as a politically canny way to buy goodwill from the City Council, parents and teachers.
Seeking to prevent the lowering of the city's A minus rating on its general obligation bonds, Mr. Giuliani made his case personally with municipal finance experts from Standard & Poor's in a private meeting on Monday. At the meeting, he spelled out his understanding with Mr. Cortines.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that the administration also scaled back the amount of money it planned to save by refinancing city debt from $170 million to $120 million in order to alleviate some of the rating agency's concerns.
Richard P. Larkin, managing director of Standard & Poor's, said that in response to Mr. Giuliani and his yearlong efforts at reducing city government the rating agency "stopped short of a downgrade" and would reconsider the city's bond rating in April.
But in a notice to investors, the agency said New York City bonds had been placed on a negative credit watch, a move that officials in the City Comptroller's office said might make it slightly more costly for the city to market its bonds in February.
Standard and Poor's called the city's move to issue new debt to pay off older borrowing "fiscally counterproductive." But the bond-rating agency also noted that the administration said the borrowing was a temporary measure to deal with an unexpected tax shortfall and was not a step away from efforts to bring longterm balance to the city budget.
The rating agency said it would review Mr. Giuliani's preliminary budget plan for next year and would also scrutinize Gov. George E. Pataki's state budget proposal to determine whether it granted the city relief from mandated social service, health care and educational expenditures.
"By April 1995, plans which continue to incorporate renewed one-shots and gimmicks, or fail to reflect ongoing budget relief from the state, will result in a lowering of the rating to the 'BBB' category for New York City's general obligation bonds," the agency said.
Mr. Larkin said only three major cities carry a bond rating that low or lower: Detroit, St. Louis and Philadelphia.
At a meeting in Syracuse among Governor Pataki, Mr. Giuliani and other big-city mayors, Mr. Pataki said he supported state legislation proposed by the Mayor that would give the city far greater control over education spending.
Mr. Giuliani's proposed bill would allow the Mayor and the City Council to determine how much of the state's aid to schools would go to individual schools, leaving the remainder to pay for administration at the Board of Education.
The refinancing is only one part of the city's plan to close a $650 million budget gap by the end of June. Mr. Powers said the Giuliani administration will seek approval from the City Council to cut $205 million from city agencies and that the administration plans to save another $45 million by deferring raises for managers.
In addition, he said, the city expects that it will receive a $200 million refund from the Federal government for overpayment of Social Security taxes and $80 million from the state for social service programs.
The remaining savings would be made, he said, through book-keeping adjustments.
In one piece of good news for the city, the Finance Department reported yesterday that the preliminary real estate assessment roll for the next fiscal year showed that the city's real estate market had stabilized after four years of decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S INC MORE BOARD OF EDUCATION (78%); CITY COUNCIL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S INC MORE BOARD OF EDUCATION (78%); CITY COUNCIL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; CREDIT; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BONDS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MITCHELL, ALISON RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



464 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: State Deficit Up Threefold, Officials Say

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 17

 BODY:
The Pataki administration said today that the state deficit for the current fiscal year has grown threefold since last month, to $300 million, because of continuing problems in the banking, insurance and securities industries.
Administration officials said they believed that simple belt-tightening by state agencies, like cutting back travel allowances, could close the gap by the end of the fiscal year on March 31, as is required under state law. But they left open the possibility that more drastic measures, including layoffs, might be taken if the deficit continued to grow. 
 Gov. George E. Pataki said today that the deficit was not large enough to deter him from his goal of cutting state income taxes. "I remain committed to closing this gap honestly and to having a balanced budget next year that cuts spending and cuts taxes," Mr. Pataki said in a statement. "New Yorkers will accept nothing less."
Officials with Wall Street firms that rate New York State's bonds said that a $300 million deficit was smaller than some of the deficits the state had to cope with in the early 1990's and that the deficit did not indicate that the state's fiscal situation was dire. In late 1990, the state faced a $824 million deficit that it closed through layoffs and borrowing.
But the Wall Street officials warned that any efforts by the Pataki administration to close the deficit for the current year by borrowing would jeopardize its efforts to have its bond rating, the lowest in the nation, upgraded.
"It woud be taking a step backward," said Richard J. Marino, a director of Standard & Poor's. "That's what got the state into trouble initially: running a continuous defict and then borrowing to cover it."
Mr. Pataki has already taken several steps toward reducing the deficit. His first act in office was to sign an order freezing all nonessential state hiring. He has also released more than 100 state employees appointed by his predecessor, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. And he has ordered the heads of all state agencies to cut nonessential costs.
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall issued a report today showing that state tax revenues for the first nine months of the fiscal year were actually $428 million lower than expected. But projected spending was also down by $109 million, leaving a shortfall of $319 million.
Mr. McCall said the decline in revenues was most pronounced in personal income, bank and insurance taxes. State officials attributed the decline to rising interest rates, shrinking bonuses on Wall Street, falling profits in the banking industry and lower profits among insurance companies caused by the Midwestern floods and the Los Angeles earthquake.
"This is the second consecutive month where collections were well below expectations," Mr. McCall said. "It indicates negative and possibly very serious economic trends in New York."
Falling tax revenues may also mean that the projected $5 billion shortfall will grow for the next fiscal year, starting April 1. State officials said the current dip in tax revenues could be a temporary problem.
But groups that monitor the state's finances said Mr. Pataki should move quickly to close the current year's deficit by cutting state programs that have produced recurring budget shortfalls.
"This is a serious problem, big enough that it needs major action," said Cynthia B. Green, vice president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit fiscal watchdog group financed by businesses. "It's actually a good opportunity for Governor Pataki to get a running start on next year and demonstrate his fiscal leadership."
Just which programs will be cut is likely to be a matter of debate in the Legislature. Though Mr. Pataki can make some unilateral spending cuts, like delaying contracts or equipment purchases, he cannot slash most services without the Legislature's approval.
Mr. Pataki said he planned to release a detailed plan for closing the $300 million deficit on Feb. 1, when he also must issue his proposed budget for the next fiscal year.
In Syracuse, where he was meeting with the mayors of five cities, Mr. Pataki said the growing deficit would be "very difficult" to close. "We're having to look at cuts in the areas where we didn't want to cut," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LAYOFFS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TRENDS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); BONDS (88%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INSURANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) EDDIE GEORGE (71%); EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



465 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Revolt Against School Spending Reaches the Wealthiest Suburbs

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: IRVINGTON, N.Y., Jan. 15

 BODY:
Martin Halpin and his family left the Bronx two decades ago and moved to this affluent riverfront village to take advantage of one of the most alluring trappings of suburbia: good public schools.
But a few years ago, Mr. Halpin started feeling crushed under the weight of escalating school taxes. His last tax bill climbed to roughly $7,500, and he has had to put off expensive house repairs, like replacing the plumbing in the bathrooms of his modest split-level home. 
 The situation has become so frustrating that Mr. Halpin, like a growing number of residents of wealthy suburbs, recently joined a band of anti-tax protesters. The group here has been fighting budget increases for the Irvington Union Free School District, where the median teacher salary was $67,680 during the previous school year, more than 50 percent greater than New York City teachers were paid.
"I know this isn't going to make me popular," said Mr. Halpin, who worries that his daughter, a high school student, might be affected adversely by his protest. "But the school district is basically pricing itself out of the middle class. It can't go on like this."
Mr. Halpin's about-face illustrates how even the wealthiest suburban communities in the New York metropolitan region and across the country have begun to revolt against school spending -- particularly growing teacher salaries -- after years of supporting public education at almost any expense. In Westchester, one of the wealthiest suburban counties in America, voters rejected 12 out of 34 local school budgets proposed for the 1993-94, the highest rate of rejection in the county in memory, and for this school year, seven were rejected.
In New Jersey, voters rejected 48.4 percent of school budgets last April, the highest rejection rate ever, and in Connecticut, a majority of school districts have won either salary freezes or give-backs from teachers in the last few years.
School administrators have been trying to persuade angry residents that if the local districts are to maintain their quality, they must raise more money through the local property tax to offset state and Federal aid cuts. But the anti-tax fervor has spread rapidly in recent years, even into more prosperous districts that traditionally enjoyed almost unequivocal community support.
In Westchester, the teacher's union in the village of Mamaroneck, where the median salary for teachers was $70,000 last year, reopened its contract and agreed to lower its salary increase amid taxpayer protests. In northern Westchester, three members of a new antitax organization were elected last spring to the school board of the Lakeland School District. And the teachers in the prosperous Long Island village of Sag Harbor have been working without a contract for two years, the longest contractual deadlock ever in the district.
Skirmishes over school spending have broken out across the country in recent years in other affluent suburbs, including Upper Arlington, Ohio, near Columbus; Pittsford, N.Y., outside Rochester; Centerville, a Dayton suburb, and the Denver suburb of Cherry Creek.
"People are starting to say enough is enough," said Eric Hanushek, a professor of economics and public policy at the University of Rochester who recently wrote a book called "Making Schools Work: Improving Performances and Controlling Cost." "Questions about school quality and spending are no longer confined to central city schools."
Many of the antitax protesters simply want to know what they are getting for their money? In addition, local protesters wonder whether suburban teachers deserve to make so much more than their New York City counterparts, who in many cases, teach children with educational disadvantages. The median teacher salary in New York City was $43,014 last year, compared with $62,316 in Westchester, $63,576 in Suffolk County and $61,835 in Nassau County, according to figures from the New York State Department of Education.
"Schools are very important, but it's never been proven that throwing money at education improves it," said Victoria Nikolov, one of two people who was elected to the school board in Irvington with the endorsement of a local antitax group called the Irvington Taxpayers Association. "The problem is we've had school boards that thought no budget was too big."
Nevertheless, school administrators contend that local school budgets have been singled out unfairly, in large part because school taxes are the only taxes subject to voter approval. (City school districts in New York State do not have to submit their budgets to public votes the way districts in villages and towns do.)
The administrators also note that the recent campaigns against school spending are often driven by groups whose members include childless homeowners, many of them elderly people on fixed incomes, who have no immediate stake in the local public schools.
To teachers, the antispending furor has been especially disconcerting. They contend that the current salaries have insured quality education by attracting teachers with talent and experience to suburban schools.
"Teachers are the heart of a good education," said Linda Rosenblatt, a spokeswoman for the New York State United Teachers union. "And I don't think we can afford to lose them to other professions.
"Competitive salaries are what have strengthened many schools in Westchester County, by making them an option for bright and creative people who might have otherwise taken their talents elsewhere."
Consider the case of Joseph T. McLaughlin, a teacher in the Harrison Central School District, which saw its budget for the 1994-95 school year rejected by voters. Mr. McLaughlin defends his annual salary of $80,000 by pointing to his qualifications: He has taught for 25 years, has a master's degree in English and another 60 college credits on top of that. He also spends much of his own time tutoring his students after school without pay, and returning phone calls from concerned parents.
"This is the kind of service people expect and deserve from teachers," said Mr. McLaughlin, who teaches English at Harrison High School. "But we also expect to be compensated for that kind of dedication."
Indeed, teaching is a labor-intensive profession, and suburban teachers are expected to take part in numerous extracurricular activities. As a result, salaries, particularly those of teachers, are the largest expense in any school district. Statewide, 75 percent of school budgets go to salaries, and 40 percent of the budgets go to teacher salaries.
But taxpayer groups have been critical of teachers for taking yearly salary increases at a time when many people in the private sector are being laid off, taking salary cuts or losing their benefits. Some of the protesters have even called for cutting teacher salaries and increasing class sizes.
In short, they have concluded that the role of money in education is largely overrated. "I think there comes a point when you start getting diminishing returns," said Helen Steinman, a member of a grass-roots organization that monitors spending in the prosperous Edgemont School District in Westchester.
William J. Volckman, a financial consultant who lives in the Lakeland School District, typifies the mood of many taxpayers. He moved there with his family about 20 years ago, partly because of the schools.
But he has become increasingly frustrated over teachers' pay in Lakeland. Last year, the median teacher salary climbed to about $61,000, and Mr. Volckman decided that enough was enough.
"What worried me was that educational programs were being cut while salaries kept going up," said Mr. Volckman, who also expressed frustration over his growing property tax bill, which was roughly $10,000 last year.
Eventually, he and several like-minded neighbors met in the living room of one of their homes and formed a group called the Lakeland Taxpayers Coalition. But they didn't stop there.
Last spring, three members of the group, including Mr. Volckman, were elected to the school board, all of them defeating incumbents who had been criticized for not responding to taxpayer concerns.
"We felt it was an overwhelming mandate," said Mr. Volckman, who believes teacher raises should be tied to performance. "We've found that much of the community agrees with us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the home of Victoria Nikolov in Irvington, N.Y., members of a school tax-protest group talk over their next newsletter. From left, they are Constance Porter, Andrew Joppa, Jack Higgins and Ms. Nikolov. (Richard Harbus for The New York Times) (pg. B7)
 
Table: "COMPARE AND CONTRAST: Teacher's Pay" lists low, medium and high salaries for full-time teachers for '93-'94 in selected areas of New York. (Source: New York State Education Department) (pg. B7)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; SUBURBS; FEDERAL AID (US); TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); SUBURBS (91%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); COUNTIES (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); TEACHER UNIONS (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND MARTIN HALPIN (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



466 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: Wall St., So Far, Is Weathering Japan's Disaster

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
In the 1980's, it was Wall Street's worst nightmare: A powerful earthquake hits Japan, damaging high-priced real estate. Japanese insurers and other institutional investors pull their money home to finance the rebuilding. And that, in turn, creates a selling panic in the United States securities markets, which had come to rely heavily on Japanese capital.
Yesterday, Wall Street awakened to what seemed to be exactly this financial "doomsday scenario." A devastating earthquake had hit the industrial region around Kobe and Osaka, causing a tragic loss of life and extensive commercial damage. 
 But for the global financial markets, doomsday did not happen yesterday. Still, because of the uncertain reaction of American mutual funds, the lack of widespread insurance coverage in Japan and the cloudy assessment of the scope of the damage and who will pay to repair it, it is still possible that the quake will send aftershocks into the global markets.
As Tokyo assessed the spreading horror of the quake yesterday, stock and bond markets here and abroad remained stable and calm, reflecting both the declining participation of Japanese investors in the American markets since 1988 and the increasing diversity in the international investment arena.
On the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Nikkei index of 225 stocks lost almost 90 points yesterday. But the Nikkei stablized today, dropping 18.01 points to close at 19,223.31.
In the currency markets, the dollar strengthened modestly against the yen and there were sharp but isolated declines in individual Japanese stocks traded in New York. Otherwise, "if you didn't know there had been an earthquake, you could not have told there was one by looking at the financial markets today," Neal M. Soss of Soss & Cotton, a New York investment management firm, said yesterday.
One reason for that, said David G. Strongin, the international analyst for the Securities Industry Association, is that "the buildup of Japanese capital here in the United States has not been nearly as large as many people had predicted."
Beneath this eerie calm, however, there are financial fault lines that are being watched carefully.
One is the American mutual fund industry. Funds investing in Japan and the Pacific region have expanded enormously in the last five years, and now have assets exceeding $13.6 billion. If the quake or its economic aftershocks cause a panic among fund investors, the "doomsday" sequence might unfold in reverse, with Tokyo suffering from a sudden withdrawal of foreign investment.
"We have yet another example of the risks of investing abroad," said David Resler, chief economist for Nomura Securities in New York. "We learned about the risk of economic instability from Mexico, and about the risk of political instability from Russia. Now, we've learned about the risk of geological instability from Japan."
Another source of uncertainty is the lack of widespread industrial and residential earthquake insurance coverage in Japan. While that defuses the fear that insurance companies will sell foreign securities to cover claims, it also raises questions about how quickly the rebuilding will occur and what impact it will have on corporate balance sheets.
Most analysts predicted that the rebuilding effort in Japan, regardless of who pays for it, would give at least a temporary lift to the economy. "You don't want to be crass at a time of such tragedy," Mr. Soss said, "but the fact is that natural disasters are bullish for the economy. And if there is a global flight to quality, Japan would be one of the markets investors would fly to."
Finally, many longtime Wall Street traders cautioned that the market's reaction yesterday was based on fragmentary information. Most Asian markets had closed before the full magnitude of the disaster was reported, and the situation continued to change during the American trading day. Thus, what seemed like studied calm may have been a "wait and see" attitude.
"The fire is not out yet, and we don't know what the final tally on the damage will be," said Seung Kwak of Scudder, Stevens & Clark, the lead manager of the Japan Fund, the largest American mutual fund investing in Japan, "but clearly there has been a great destruction of wealth."
John Alkire, a principal in Morgan Stanley Asset Management in Tokyo who was raised in the quake-hit region, reported by telephone from Tokyo last night that traders in Japan "are glued to their television sets and radio" trying to assess the damage. "But having said that, this is still not 'the big one,' the one that people have been waiting for and fearing," Mr. Alkire said. "It did not happen, thank God, in Tokyo."
Even as uncertainty lingers, however, it is clear that the role of Japan in the American markets has changed profoundly since the days when the doomsday theories first emerged -- days when Japan was the leading buyer of the Treasury securities that financed the growing Federal budget deficit, and when Japanese investment in the American stock market was substantial.
Today, the financial ties between Japan and the United States are broader and more reciprocal, with funds flowing smoothly in both directions and with Japan investing in many American markets and playing a less dominant role in each.
While net Japanese investment in all American securities totaled roughly $32.5 billion in 1993 and $16.1 billion in the first half of 1994, those figures were inflated by official trades by the Japanese Government, which was trying to support the dollar against the yen. Not since 1987 have Japanese investors been substantial buyers of American stocks.
And the global marketplace itself has become deeper and more experienced in the last 10 years, Mr. Resler said. "Even if you assume that all of the capital required to build back Osaka and Kobe will come out of funds that would otherwise have gone into the global marketplace, the impact on the United States will be minimal," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Dollars Pouring In" shows the rapid growth of American stock mutual funds specializing in Japan.(Source: Lipper Analytical Securities Corporation) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); KINKI, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO STOCK EXCHANGE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); KINKI, JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (93%); OSAKA, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; EARTHQUAKES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES EARTHQUAKES (92%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INSURANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (72%); TRENDS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (62%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (61%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



467 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Max Schnapp, 90, Labor Activist And an Animal Rights Advocate

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Max Schnapp, a labor activist turned advocate of pets and their owners, died on Jan. 10 at Interfaith Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 90 and lived in Brighton Beach.
He had a lengthy illness, his family said. 
 Mr. Schnapp founded and was president of the Pet Owners Protective Association. For many years, he was a highly visible, vociferous presence at hearings and meetings about no-pets clauses in leases, rules on owners' having to clean up after their dogs, and the like.
He was born in Austro-Hungary, where he committed himself to political and social causes as a member of the Socialist Party. He came to the United States in 1923 and worked as a knitting-machine mechanic.
In the 1930's, he led strikes and organized factory workers for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union. He also belonged to the International Workers Order and taught unemployed tenants during the Depression how to organize against evictions and homelessness.
In the early 1950's, Mr. Schnapp said, he found that unions had grown too bureaucratic and corrupt for his taste. He shopped around for another cause and decided on animals.
He joined the Sierra Club to save endangered species. He fought for humane kosher slaughter. Eventually, he became involved in just about every aspect of what he called the "humane movement."
He founded his association -- known as POPA -- in 1970. He lobbied for a law that barred the eviction of elderly tenants with pets from rent-controlled apartments and for an end to the sale of shelter animals for research. He also helped to persuade department stores to drop plans for selling dog-skin coats imported from South Africa.
He is survived by his wife of 46 years, Paulette Asche Schnapp; a daughter, Charlotte Klein of Mamaroneck, N.Y., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. His first wife, Sarah Felsenfeld Schnapp, died in 1936.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PET OWNERS PROTECTIVE ASSOCIATION (72%); SIERRA CLUB (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); PETS (91%); ANIMALS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (89%); EVICTION (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); DOGS (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); RENT CONTROL (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (73%); RELIGION (73%); APPAREL MFG (73%); ANIMAL CONTROL (71%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); RETAILERS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHNAPP, MAX; SAXON, WOLFGANG SARAH FELSENFELD SCHNAPP (90%); MAX SCHNAPP (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



468 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
Finding Help Until Job Search Pays Off

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
The leather satchel is faded, creased and bulging with testaments to a grueling job search: resumes, references and rejection letters. Leafing through its contents, Aida D.'s hands start to shake.
She worked at a savings bank for 14 years, starting as a clerk and eventually becoming the head teller. But in 1987, she lost her job to the recession. She found a new position as a bookkeeper, but it lasted only three years, again because of the poor economy. Since then, Miss D. has juggled temporary jobs and searched doggedly for full-time work. 
 So far, she has failed.
"I have been forced to take whatever I can get, and that means temp jobs, waitressing, no lunch break, minimum wage," said Miss D., who is 45 and lives in Flatbush, Brooklyn. "I am out in the cold, and as hard as I try, I can't do anything about it."
After her unemployment benefits ran out in 1991, Miss D. had to apply for public assistance. She joined the Work Experience Program, in which welfare recipients work off their grants by helping out at public offices. She spent the next three years doing secretarial work at two government agencies and received glowing recommendations. But neither could offer her a permanent job.
"They really liked me, and they had all this work for me to do," she said. "But they didn't have the money to keep me."
Last spring, while she worked as a temporary secretary, Miss D. mailed dozens of resumes. At one point, she went from floor to floor in the World Trade Center, filling out several hundred job applications. She kept a record of each one, and the list fills a thick notebook. But her efforts resulted in a pile of rejection letters, which she keeps alphabetized in her satchel.
"I speak Spanish, I have an education and good experience, but nobody wants to give me a break," she said, her voice cracking. "Maybe I ask too many questions. Maybe I look too old."
With her parents dead and her siblings facing their own financial problems, Miss D. did not know where to find help. She stopped receiving public assistance in 1992 and is determined to stay off. In August, as she was falling behind on her rent and utility bills, she went to Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, which is supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
For 83 years, the fund has enabled Catholic Charities and six other organizations to help poor, sick, elderly and disabled people throughout the city. Catholic Charities gave Miss D. $387 to pay a month of back rent. Although it did not end her problems, the grant eased her worries, and social workers at the agency offered her emotional support.
"They're very wonderful here," she said during a visit to the charity's Brooklyn South Family Center. "I thank God that I came into contact with people who are so willing to help."
She considers herself a survivor, but at the moment, Miss D. is barely hanging on. Her last temporary job, with a real estate agency, ended on Dec. 16. She caught the flu at Christmas, and because she has no health insurance, she had to use savings to pay for an emergency-room visit. Her typewriter broke several weeks ago, and she has resorted to writing cover letters by hand.
"I would be an asset to the business that hires me," they read in delicate script. "Please give me a chance."
 
Previously recorded $3,465,100.00
Recorded yesterday 25,468.69
 
Total $3,490,568.69

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CATHOLIC CHARITIES CATHOLIC CHARITIES (77%); BROOKLYN SOUTH FAMILY CENTER (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATHOLIC CHARITIES CATHOLIC CHARITIES (77%); BROOKLYN SOUTH FAMILY CENTER (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (89%); CHARITIES (89%); RELIGION (88%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (84%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); DISABLED PERSONS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



469 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Ends A $4 Billion Visit to India

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Jan. 17

 BODY:
A delegation of American business leaders concluded a visit to the Indian capital today after signing documents covering new trade and investment deals said to exceed $4 billion.
Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown, leading the largest American business group ever to visit India, said the deals were just the beginning for American companies ready to exploit India's free-market economic changes. He said a further $12 billion in potential deals between Indian and American companies was under negotiation. 
 Since 1991, India has slashed some of the world's highest taxes and tariffs, eased tight restrictions on foreign investment, and begun dismantling controls on business.
The $4 billion in deals underlined by signing ceremonies here in the last two days -- some in the form of completed contracts, others in the formative stage -- covered industries thought likely to make the fastest strides under the new economy. They included areas like petrochemicals, power generation, telecommunications and transportation, as well as fields barely touched by foreign investment so far, like financial services and health care.
Mr. Brown said the delegation had served as a capstone for a new relationship between India and the United States, making a memory of cold-war-era tensions, when India maintained close relations with Moscow. American companies have been in the forefront in exploring the Indian market, outstripping companies from Western Europe and Japan.
Under the Clinton Administration, stepped-up efforts to promote American exports have focused on 10 emerging markets identified by the Commerce Department. India is among those.
The President, in a letter to Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao delivered by Mr. Brown today, said the United States' goal was for its companies to consolidate the leading position they have established.
According to figures released by officials traveling with Mr. Brown, the United States, with its trade with India valued at $7.4 billion in 1993, was New Delhi's biggest trade partner. With $800 million in direct investment, American companies have also been the largest investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ABCC (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (91%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); SECURITIES LAW (66%); PETROCHEMICALS (53%); 

PERSON: BROWN, RONALD H (SEC); BURNS, JOHN F HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



470 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Merrill Tied to Orange County Loss

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 17

 BODY:
The man who managed a $20 billion portfolio for Orange County, Calif., before his risky investment strategy drove the county into bankruptcy, defended himself today as a financial innocent. He blamed his broker, Merrill Lynch & Company, for leading him astray.
"I was an inexperienced investor," declared Robert L. Citron, who served more than two decades as treasurer of Orange County and the man in charge of its investments. It was Mr. Citron's first public appearance since he resigned that post last month. 
 "In retrospect, it is clear that I followed the wrong course," Mr. Citron told a special committee of the California State Senate. "I will carry that burden the rest of my life."
As the battle between Orange County and Merrill heats up in the aftermath of the $2 billion loss that left the county's finances in ruin, Mr. Citron said today that he had relied on advice from "financial professionals," primarily at Merrill, in fashioning an aggressive investment strategy using highly risky securities and borrowed funds. "I followed an investment course that I believed was prudent and suitable," he said.
In response, Merrill denied that it had served as financial adviser to the Orange County investment pool Mr. Citron ran, saying that it "didn't create or implement the strategy."
Paul Critchlow, head of Merrill's media relations department, said Mr. Citron's testimony rings "hollow when he claims he didn't know what he was doing." He said that Mr. Citron "chose to ignore repeated warnings" from Merrill that his huge investment fund -- $7.4 billion in taxpayer money from the county and other local governments supplemented by $13 million in borrowed funds -- was becoming dangerously vulnerable to big losses as interest rates rose.
Mr. Citron also portrayed himself as under pressure from local county officials to produce high investment returns at a time of increasingly tight municipal budgets.
Mr. Citron, who spoke in a calm voice throughout his testimony, singled out two Merrill officials: Michael G. Stamenson, the broker who sold Orange County securities and Charles L. Clough, the firm's chief investment strategist. The investment strategy, Mr. Citron said, was based on advice from Mr. Clough, who he said told him at a breakfast meeting in March that interest rate increases "weren't sustainable." The Federal Reserve, which raised interest rates for the first time in February, subsequently increased rates five more times last year. "I trusted Mr. Clough's judgment," Mr. Citron said.
Economists are notoriously unreliable in forecasting interest rates and nearly all analysts failed to predict the sharp rate increases of last year. Investors lost hundreds of billions of dollars in the bond market crash of 1994, but few investors took the risks that Mr. Citron did. And Mr. Citron, Merrill said, ignored its advice to reduce his borrowing and speculation as interest rates rose.
Mr. Citron, describing what he said were daily telephone conversations with the Merrill broker, said that Mr. Stamenson "repeatedly encouraged the county to engage in greater leverage and to enhance yields by purchasing more derivatives."
Mr. Stamenson, in a prepared copy of his remarks that he delivered later today, described Mr. Citron as "a highly sophisticated, experienced and knowledgeable investor," adding, "I learned a lot from him."
Mr. Stamenson continued: "Neither I, nor anyone else at Merrill Lynch, designed or structured the county's investment strategy or controlled the county's investment. Mr. Citron did."
The Orange County debacle has increasingly come down to a finger-pointing exercise between local officials and Merrill. Just last week, relations soured even further when Orange County filed a $3 billion lawsuit against Merrill, which disclosed that it had been selling off collateral backing investments in the Orange County fund. The bankruptcy court in Santa Ana, Calif., held a hearing on the status of the collateral today, but no ruling was expected.
Mr. Citron contended that Orange County's decision to file for bankruptcy was "premature," saying that the Wall Street investment firms that pulled the rug from under his shaky investments by demanding the collateral they held on the borrowed funds would not have done so had he stayed in office. The Wall Street firms, however, have said they were unable to reach Mr. Citron over the crucial weekend before Orange County filed for bankruptcy on Dec. 5.
Mr. Citron also said he did not pick the county's bond lawyers or underwriters, that he never read the warnings from his opponent for the treasurer's job last July, and that the county's Board of Supervisors never asked him for monthly reports as required by California law.
He defended his investments by saying that not only had bond rating agencies reviewed his portfolio, but the Securities and Exchange Commission had also found nothing amiss in mid-1994.
At the hearing, several state senators and officials expressed incredulity over Mr. Citron's testimony. Matt Fong, the California State Treasurer, said: "Mr. Citron's trying to portray himself as an innocent lamb led to slaughter by investment houses is wrong. He was a knowledgeable, sophisticated investor and he dropped the ball."
George M. Lintz, head of Pacific Matrix Financial Group, one of several advisers to the committee, said: "People didn't want to face the truth. Orange County was hooked on that pool."
To this, Mr. Citron, in a tired voice, responded, "There could be a good deal of validity in that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert L. Citron, left, the former treasurer of Orange County, Calif., consulting with his lawyer, David Weichert, before defending himself at a California Senate hearing on the county's investment losses. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (93%); MER (NYSE) (93%); 8675 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; BANKRUPTCIES INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COUNTIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); BONDS (73%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; CITRON, ROBERT L ROBERT L CITRON (96%); MICHAEL G STAMENSON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



471 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Industry Pace Spurts, Reviving Talk of a Rate Rise

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17

 BODY:
American industry ran at its highest level in 15 years last month as an unexpectedly strong burst of year-end activity pushed capacity utilization to 85.4 percent, the Federal Reserve reported today.
With output of the nation's factories, mines and utilities rising 1 percent, the biggest gain in two years, many analysts said the industrial sector now had such potential for reigniting inflation that the central bank could not avoid further increases in short-term interest rates. 
 Additional monetary tightening has been widely assumed since the preceding rate increase on Nov. 15 but some analysts had come to think that Mexico's economic crisis and then a report on Friday of flat retail sales for the final two months of the year might cause the Fed to stay its hand.
Higher United States interest rates could make the already-battered peso even less attractive relative to the dollar.
"We continue to expect a policy firming" at the next meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee, Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said in a report to clients today. The committee, the policy-making arm of the Fed, is scheduled to meet for two days beginning Jan. 31.
"The Fed will be increasingly concerned about the high levels of capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector and the low rate of unemployment in the labor market," Ms. Schaja said.
For manufacturing alone, output rose 1 percent last month to lift the 1994 gain to 6.7 percent, the Fed's report showed. Mining surged 1.2 percent after two straight declines while the nation's utilities continued to reflect exceptionally warm weather as production fell eight-tenths of 1 percent.
Industrial production expanded at an annual pace of 5.4 percent in the October-December quarter, up from a pace of 4.9 percent in the July-September quarter.
The Fed has raised short-term rates six times since last February. It is known to pay particular attention to the utilization rate, which it calculates itself and which has now surpassed the 85 percent threshold that is often associated with accelerating price pressures.
Paul W. Boltz, a former Fed staff economist who is now a vice president at T. Rowe Price Associates in Baltimore, called today's figures "a matter of serious concern" and said it would be "worrisome" if the Fed did not act.
"The economy has a big head of steam up," Mr. Boltz said. "At least the production side of the economy was booming" as 1994 ended.
Other analysts, though not necessarily contending that a rate rise could be avoided, expressed reservations about the figures, particularly the operating rate.
"I have deep skepticism about the validity of them as predictors of inflation," said David H. Resler, chief economist at Nomura Securities International in New York. He noted that the three most recent occasions in which utilization reached about 85 percent -- in 1980, in the late 1980's and now -- have been times of widely varied inflation: annual rates of about 12 1/2 percent, 4 1/2 percent and 2 1/2 percent, respectively.
Other commonly expressed complaints about the figures are that they do not account for a greater openness of the economy to foreign goods or for rapidly rising productivity in various industries. But the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City has examined those factors and found them wanting.
"The capacity-utilization rate in the manufacturing sector remains a reliable indicator of inflationary pressures," a study by C. Alan Garner concluded in the current Economic Review published by the Kansas City Fed. He found that the utilization rate associated with stable inflation seemed to hold at roughly 82 percent.
The 85.4 percent operating rate last month, which was the highest since October 1979, compared with 84.7 in November and 84.3 in October. The utilization rate for primary-processing industries jumped seven-tenths of a point, to 90 percent.
Jerry Jasinowski, president of the National Association of Manufacturers, said the most significant aspect of the rise in output last month was the fact that it was broadly based to include both business equipment -- up nearly 10 percent for the year -- as well as automobiles and other consumer goods.
At the same time, he found "embryonic signs" of an impending economic slowdown, such as a negligible rise in production of construction materials, which is a possible indication that rate increases have taken a toll on the housing market.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Capacity Utilization" shows total output as a percentage of capacity from July '93-Dec. '94. (Source: Federal Reserve Board); "Industrial Production" shows index of total industrial production from July '93-Dec. '94. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TROW (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); T ROWE PRICE GROUP INC (51%); NOMURA SECURITIES INTERNATIONAL INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); RETAIL SALES (69%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



472 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Are merely good sales good enough? Wall Street's appetite rages on.

BYLINE: By Kenneth N. Gilpin 

 BODY:
IN the hot-new-issues market of 1993, few initial public offerings had as much sizzle as the Gymboree Corporation.
Lately, though, signs of lagging demand at the children's apparel retailer are causing some analysts to question whether the stock is on the verge of a cyclical downturn. 
 Doubts are beginning to be heard because early in January, Gymboree reported sales figures that for the third straight month were lower than expected.
Compared with other retailers, the 5 percent gain was respectable. But it wasn't good enough for investors or analysts, who had been expecting gains of 8 to 10 percent. On Jan. 5, the day the results were announced, the stock plunged $4, to $23 a share, in heavy Nasdaq trading, sharply down from a record high of $31.50 in October.
"When you have a strong company that is already valued as a strong company, with a high price-earnings ratio and all the rest, everything has to go right," said Jean-Michel Valette, a managing director at Hambrecht & Quist in San Francisco. "This is the first time they have had single-digit same-store sales increases for three straight months since they went public."
Indeed, over the last 19 months, investors may have gotten a little spoiled.
When it went public on March 31, 1993, Gymboree shares were tentatively priced between $6.50 and $7.50, adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split last August. But demand was so great that the target price was raised to $10, and the size of the offering increased. By the close of the first day, the stock rose nearly 58 percent, to $15.75 a share.
Though it has been overblown, there has indeed been some basis for the enthusiasm about Gymboree.
This year, analysts expect the company to report revenue of $187 million, more than double the level recorded in 1992, its last year of operation as a private company. Earnings for 1994 are expected to reach $21 million, three times the 1992 level.
Since 1992, the number of Gymboree stores has nearly doubled, to 209. A further 65 are expected to be opened this year.
Analysts said they were not worried about the company's management, products or marketing strategy, all of which are deemed first rate. If Gymboree stumbles, it will be caused by broader forces, they said.
"Consumer spending in apparel has been weak for some time, but has been strong in children's clothing," said Robert Buchanan, a retailing analyst at NatWest Securities. "I am not a genius, and would like to think this is just a few bad innings for this company. But children's clothing sales may be wilting. Since the stock is trading at more than twice anticipated 1995 revenues, there is very little room for error."
Not everyone is cautious.
Returning from a recent visit to Gymboree, Alice A. Ruth, a retailing analyst at Montgomery Securities, which was one of the underwriters of the stock, said, "I am as enthusiastic about this company's prospects as I have ever been," adding that she had no problems with a stock currently trading about 30 times earnings.
Ms. Ruth applauded Gymboree's plans, which include the introduction of a catalogue business, restructuring of franchise operations and a move to expand overseas, probably late in 1996.
Gymboree shares closed yesterday at $24.75, up $1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GYMB (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (96%); NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (96%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (96%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: GYMBOREE CORP GYMBOREE CORP (96%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GYMBOREE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); STOCK SPLITS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N ALICE A RUTH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



473 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Redford and Showtime Plan New Cable Movie Channel

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER 

 BODY:
The actor and director Robert Redford and executives from Showtime Networks Inc. announced yesterday that they were forming a new cable channel devoted to independent films, a broad category that will include films distributed by Hollywood studios as well as some foreign films and many films that have never been widely seen.
The new channel, which will begin operating in the fall, is a 50-50 partnership between Showtime and Mr. Redford. The financial terms of the deal were not disclosed. 
 Mr. Redford said the channel, called the Sundance Film Channel, had been a dream of his for some time. Mr. Redford has long been associated with independent films through the annual Sundance Film Festival in Utah, which is sponsored by his Sundance Institute.
The new channel will be devoted to "quality films," Mr. Redford said.
"There is enough junk coming out all the time," he added. "These will be films of real quality. There is a lot of wonderful product out there that has never really gotten a chance to be seen."
Among the more than 300 titles on Showtime's roster that will be available are "Four Weddings and a Funeral," "Orlando," "Belle Epoque" and "Raise the Red Lantern."
Mr. Redford defined independent films as those in which film makers were able to execute their own visions. That could range from films made with some connection to Hollywood studios to those made independently on shoestring budgets.
In a telephone interview from Los Angeles, Mr. Redford said he would provide the creative control of the channel, assisted by his staff at the Sundance Institute and employees from Showtime. "I'm going to shape the creative aspects of the programming," he said.
In addition to full-length feature movies, the channel plans to offer documentaries, short subjects, animated films and programs about film makers and the movie-making process.
Winston H. Cox, chairman of Showtime, said the Sundance Film Channel would be offered both as a premium cable channel for which subscribers would be charged a monthly fee and in packages with other premium channels.
"I think you could expect a good audience on the Upper West Side of Manhattan to be willing to pay $6.95 a month for a channel like this," Mr. Cox said. "But in other parts of the country it may have to be marketed in different ways."
Mr. Cox said a sampling of the service would initially be provided to viewers of Showtime and the Movie Channel, which are both owned by Showtime Networks.
"We have created an economic model for the channel," Mr. Cox said. "With direct broadcast satellite expanding and the telephone companies coming into cable faster than expected, we believe there will be distribution for the channel. I can't wait to take Mr. Redford on the first sales call." No cable operators have made commitments yet to carry the channel.
The Sundance Film Channel will be the second cable channel devoted to independent films. The Independent Film Channel, started in September by the Bravo Channel, has a similar format to that described by Mr. Redford and Mr. Cox yesterday.
Indeed, Mr. Redford held negotiations with Bravo executives before that channel was started, said Kathleen Dore, general manager of the Independent Film Channel.
"For the most part we talked with Mr. Redford's representatives from Creative Artists Agency," Ms. Dore said, referring to Hollywood's most powerful talent agency. "Mr. Redford wanted creative control. He wanted to program it himself and he insisted that it have the name Sundance. We became somewhat uncomfortable with the level of Hollywood influence. With Mr. Redford and Showtime involved, we think that channel will be very tied to Hollywood."
Showtime is owned by Viacom Inc., which is also the corporate parent of Paramount Pictures.
Mr. Redford said he chose Showtime because it was "a strong organization with global impact."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (92%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHOWTIME NETWORKS INC; SUNDANCE FILM CHANNEL SHOWTIME NETWORKS INC (92%); SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (56%); SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHOWTIME NETWORKS INC; SUNDANCE FILM CHANNEL SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (56%); SUNDANCE INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); UTAH, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; MOTION PICTURES; CABLE TELEVISION; STATIONS AND NETWORKS FILM (92%); CABLE TELEVISION (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); FESTIVALS (74%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (71%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (60%); 

PERSON: REDFORD, ROBERT; CARTER, BILL; COX, WILLIAM H ROBERT REDFORD (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



474 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Jimmy Carter, It Turns Out, Is a Poet, Too

BYLINE: By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
Stoically, with the economy of an engineer or a time-study man, the former President kept signing his new book of poems for customers lining up at Rizzoli's bookstore in the World Financial Center. "JCarter," he wrote with a felt-tip pen, paring off the first name so as to squeeze in more signatures in the time allotted.
For two hours yesterday he signed, never even pausing for a drink of water. "He's the best signer I ever saw," said Mary Beth Roche, the director of publicity for his publisher, Times Books. "He's better than Tip O'Neill, better than Kirk Douglas. He not only signs, he makes eye contact. He says 'hi.' " 
 Mr. Carter did indeed say "hi" and "nice to see you" as he maintained a steady pace of about 20 books a minute. And when he had signed the last copy of "Always a Reckoning," he showed no sign of weariness. "The most I ever signed in a single day was 3,700," he said, heading back to a storeroom where, over a sandwich and coffee, he explained how this book was made.
"I've written poetry off and on ever since I was in high school," he said. "I had always been extremely interested in poetry and I used to regret that I just had an engineering and nuclear physics background."
He went on to say that about five years ago, he began to study poetry in a serious way with two mentors, Jim Whitehead and Miller Williams, both poets and professors at the University of Arkansas. He had met them after he left the White House, when they came to offer him their separate poems about his term as President. He liked them and he had them down to his home in Plains, Ga., to lecture.
One of the 47 mostly short poems in the collection deals with that meeting. It is entitled, "Itinerant Songsters Visit Our Village," and it begins:
When some poets came to Plains one night,
two with guitars, their poems taught
us how to look and maybe laugh
at what we were and felt and thought.
After that, I rushed to write
in fumbling lines why we should care
about a distant starving child.
Mr. Carter explained how, under the tutelage of his guides he began to study poetry systematically. "I had always written as an engineer, as briefly and concisely and clearly as possible," he said, "and I never was interested in anything but the most simple words. With poetry I experience kind of a mind expander as I search for the most appropriate word, study the derivation of words and learn what their original meanings might have been."
"I went public in a very cautious way," he said, explaining how, encouraged by the professors, he submitted his poems to such journals as New England Review, New Orleans Review and North Dakota Review, which accepted them. "I asked them not to take note of the fact that I had been President," he said, "and they agreed."
After he received what he described as a good and constructive response, he thought about a book. He selected the 47 poems because of the range of feelings and themes they reflect. He arrayed them in four sections, headed People, Places, Politics and Private Lives. The book, which sells for $18, is illustrated with drawings made by Sarah Elizabeth Chuldenko, a Carter granddaughter.
Many of the poems are set in Mr. Carter's hometown, and though they deal with modest rather than heroic exploits, they nonetheless evoke the boyhood lives of Presidents as they have been described since Parson Weems first portrayed a Washington who would not lie. For his part, Mr. Carter writes of hunting buddies, trout fishing, killing an old sick dog, the inspiring example of a black neighbor. There are sketches of his mother, a poem about selling peanuts and a piece describing the flight of geese over the Capitol as seen from the roof of the White House.
Mr. Carter said he had found poetry to be a "more deeply self-revelatory experience" than other writing. "There were things that appeared in poems that I would never have said verbally or put in prose," said the man who while running for President once invited assured criticism by candidly admitting: "I've looked on a lot of women with lust. I've committed adultery in my heart many times." That is a good line in poetry but not in politics.
The new book does not have anything more to add on this subject, but there is a poem about human rights, "Hollow Eyes, Bellies, Hearts," written in the White House, which, in a sardonic voice, asks:
Why think of slaves, nameless deaths?
Best be still, as in other days.
Response was bland to Hitler's deeds --
Should we condemn our fathers' ways?
Recently, Mr. Carter has been criticized for meeting with and praising the leader of the Bosnian Serbs. When asked whether this amounted to the appeasement he had deplored in his poem, he replied, "Well, I don't see it that way."
And in another poem, called "I Wanted to Share My Father's World," he writes:
This is a pain I mostly hide,
but ties of blood, or seed endure,
and even now I feel inside
the hunger for his outstretched hand,
a man's embrace to take me in,
the need for just a word of praise.
Yes, he said, that was one of the poems that had even surprised his wife with its openness. "I was was proud of my father," Mr. Carter said. "I knew he loved me, but he was very restrained about showing it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jimmy Carter during impromptu lunch yesterday while signing his book of poems at Rizzoli's in World Financial Center. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: ALWAYS A RECKONING (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL CENTER BANK NA (58%); FINANCIAL CENTER CREDIT UNION (58%); FINANCIAL CENTER CORP (58%); TIMES BOOKS (57%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; POETRY AND POETS POETRY (92%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); PHYSICS (50%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (50%); 

PERSON: CARTER, JIMMY; KAUFMAN, MICHAEL T JIMMY CARTER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



475 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 16; Column 6; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Overcoming In the South Of the 60's

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
Tonight's edition of "Dateline" looks back at some brutal aspects of Mississippi's resistance to the civil rights movement in the 1960's. Stone Phillips talks with a repentant undercover informer for the Sovereignty Commission, a state agency that kept track of civil rights workers. The assertion here is that information was passed by the commission to the Klan-infiltrated police, with dire results.
Mr. Phillips also tells how the commission checked out potential jurors for the benefit of the defense in Byron de la Beckwith's trial in the murder of Medgar Evers, and he names a black businessman and state official as having alerted the commission to the plans of James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner, the three young civil rights workers who were killed in June 1964. 
 The program is not much of a scoop; many of the details have been reported elsewhere. Still, it can't hurt to remind a prime-time network audience, in a week that began with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday, of what the civil rights movement in the South endured and overcame.
 
'Adam Smith'
'From Raj to Riches'
 PBS, tomorrow at 8 P.M.
 (Channel 13 in New York)
 Tomorrow night's offering from "Adam Smith" is the first of a two-part report on the economic boom in India. The programs intersperse picturesque scenes from old India with the rosy views of businessmen and officials of new India's commercial prospects.
Credit is given to the economic reforms of Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao and Finance Minister Manmohan Singh, both interviewed here. Mr. Smith, a k a Jerry Goodman, does not fail to note that political opposition to a free market and multinational connections remains strong and that most Indians remain in deep poverty. But the emphasis is on the fast-growing middle class and the bustling Bombay Stock Exchange. It's an enlightening hour about the sort of subject that doesn't often make it onto the tube.
 
DATELINE
Agent X
 NBC, today at 9 P.M.
 (Channel 4 in New York)
Produced by John Grassie; Stone Phillips, correspondent; edited by Tom Behrens; Laura Rabhan, associate producer; Marc Rosenwasser, senior producer. A production of NBC News. Neal Shapiro, executive producer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: DATELINE (TV PROGRAM); ADAM SMITH (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI; INDIA; INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS; BLACKS (IN US); CIVIL RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DOCUMENTARY FILMS AND PROGRAMS CIVIL RIGHTS (93%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (93%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MURDER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); JURY TRIALS (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (73%); TRENDS (73%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); JURY DUTY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (59%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER ADAM SMITH (86%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (78%); MANMOHAN SINGH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



476 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Composing a Kinship Between Classical and Pop

BYLINE: By BERNARD HOLLAND 

 BODY:
William Bolcom's music, which New York Philharmonic audiences will hear a lot of this week, is a wordless rebuttal to ideas of rank and category. As a ragtime pianist and espouser of American popular song who writes operas and symphonies, Mr. Bolcom works hard to erase the lines between the elite and the vulgar, the intellectual and the visceral, the select and the popular.
Music, he seems to be telling us, has pulled itself apart from both ends of the cultural spectrum: the classical extremity eager to isolate high-mindedness and rise above the everyday; the pop end cornered by a concern for the bottom line and an obsession with rigid species and subspecies of style. Neither Mr. Bolcom's "Commedia" nor his Fifth Symphony, which Leonard Slatkin will conduct tomorrow, Friday and Saturday at Avery Fisher Hall, are new pieces. Both, however, create what the composer calls an "axis": a fulcrum on which the classical and the popular can sway in happy balance. 
 "We got away from this after World War I," he said in a conversation last weekend. "Evenings in the Victorian theater used to be grab bags. They lasted four hours. The cost of a ticket was roughly what people would spend on gas if they had stayed at home, so coming to the theater or the concert hall was an easy, natural thing to do. We have made it less friendly."
Blame economics for some of classical music's shrinking, graying audience, Mr. Bolcom suggests. "Classical concerts, like Broadway shows, have become events by necessity," he said. "They aren't normal activity anymore. The tickets are expensive. Parking is expensive. Dinner afterward is expensive. People are going to these things perhaps two or three times a year, not every week. There used to be 120 theaters around Broadway. Now only a few spectacles survive."
Yet attitudes toward art are entwined with the business end, he thinks. "The emerging bourgeois in the 19th century really started the high-culture movement," he said. "They were rising in the world and they wanted an art to take with them as they went up, something to identify as theirs and to separate them from the classes they were rising above. Before that, Haydn and a lot of other composers used popular songs. Monteverdi is full of dances of the day."
"Commedia" takes off from the stock characters of commedia dell'arte, a comedy style of the people that is now reverenced and dissected among academics. The Fifth Symphony, like so many great works of the 18th century, was written to specification.
"Dennis Russell Davies, the conductor, asked for something to come last on a program and have a loud ending, also something not too long," Mr. Bolcom said. "The Fifth, at 20 minutes, is half the length of my Fourth. It begins with a sonata allegro in the old symphonic way. The Scherzo balances the fox trot against 19th-century dances of death. The last movement plays a grand theme against against machinelike techno-pop."
Mr. Bolcom bridles at being called an eclectic. "I'm not a synthesizer either," he said. "I'm interested in showing how different elements relate. My music tries to make the relationships clear. The more I look to the future in music the more I keep coming back to the past. They come together. Maybe if we can find these axes between old and new, serious and popular, we can keep music afloat."
Mr. Bolcom, who is 56, paddles for all he is worth: performing standards with his wife, the soprano Joan Morris, using nightclub settings; responding to commissions from opera houses like the Chicago Lyric, and teaching as a full professor of composition at the University of Michigan. His own wide and international training centered, not surprisingly, around Darius Milhaud, a subtle purveyor of jazz elements.
"I think the interest in music is out there," Mr. Bolcom said, "but not just one kind of music. We have made concert life hard for listeners, a little foreign to them. After-work rush concerts at low prices work. The Lyric Opera in Chicago does a wonderful job of preparing audiences for unknown music and is over 100 percent sold out. Look at restaurants. They were in trouble a while back, but they changed their ways, became creative. Classical institutions became purified in an artificial way. It's made them ossified."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The composer William Bolcom at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. (Peter Yates)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); THEATER (89%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); WORLD WAR I (52%); 

PERSON: BOLCOM, WILLIAM; HOLLAND, BERNARD LEONARD SLATKIN (56%); AVERY FISHER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



477 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Securities Fall in Price

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
With the exception of the long bond, prices of Treasury securities fell yesterday, dragged down by a strong industrial production report.
The Federal Reserve reported yesterday that industrial production rose a strong 1 percent in December, the biggest gain in two years. The data showed an industrial sector robust enough to withstand a series of increases in short-term interest rates, suggesting that the Fed will be forced to keep raising rates, traders said. 
 But the market trimmed back its losses later in the day. One trader said that one reason the selloff was not heavier was investors who sold short going into Friday's retail sales report and were looking for the first drop in prices to cover their short positions.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 6/32 , to 9628/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, fell to 7.77 percent, from 7.78 on Friday. The Treasury market was closed on Monday in observance of the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
But shorter maturities came under pressure yesterday as the market priced in the next interest rate increases by the Fed. Yields in the short end of the market rose an average 8 basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
Fears that Japanese insurers might sell paper to raise cash to cover losses from the earthquake did worry some investors. But some traders saw the possibility of the opposite effect if investors sold yen-denominated securities.
With regard to the strong production report, Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Securities, said: "Last Friday's weak retail sales and today's strong industrial production confused many market participants.
"But the net result is that the market still expects a Fed tightening move on Feb. 1, but one that is limited to 50 basis points."
Stuart G. Hoffman, chief economist at the PNC Bank Corporation in Pittsburgh, noted that "the weak November and December retail sales data could be the first signs of a consumer spending slowdown, which means manufacturers may have to curtail output in the months ahead to prevent unwanted inventories to pile up."
"I don't think these numbers will dissuade the Fed from raising the Federal funds rate by 50 basis points," Mr. Hoffman said, "but it strongly argues against anything more agresesive than that. There are enough open questions so that anything more than a 50-basis-point interest rate increase will be unwarranted."
With each economic number out shifting the probablity of a rate increase by the Fed, Mr. Hoffman thinks the next important number that will likely attract the greatest market focus will be the preliminary report on the gross domestic product for the first quarter, which is due next week.
"Tomorrow's manufacturing and trade data could be interesting leading into the G.D.P," he said.
The Treasury held its weekly auction of three- and six-month bills yesterday because of the holiday on Monday.
Interest rates were down moderately, as the average rate for a three- month issue dropped 10 basis points, to 5.77 percent, the lowest since the end of December last year, and the six-month was down 23 basis points, to 6.19 percent, its lowest since the end of November last year.
Today the Treasury will announce the size of its two-year and five-year note auctions that will be held next week.
In the municipal bond market, were prices were little changed, with New York City bonds off a bit. The city's decision yesterday to sell refunding bonds to help close its budget deficit by lowering interest rate payments apparently lowered the prices on some of city's $23 billion general obligation debt.
Meanwhile as the city is preparing to sell $500 million in bonds next week to provide $120 million in savings in the fiscal year 1995 budget, Standard & Poor's says it may downgrade the city's A- rating because of the plan.
Following are the results of yesterday's weekly Treasury auction of new three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)
 
Table: "(000 omitted in dollar figures)"

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.541	96.871	Discounted Rate	5.77%	6.19%	Coupon Yield	5.94%	6.48%	High Price	98.541	96.876	Discounted Rate	5.77%	6.18%	Coupon Yield	5.94%	6.47%	Low Price	98.539	96.871	Discounted Rate	5.78%	6.19%	Coupon Yield	5.95%	6.48%	Accepted at low price	6%	36%	Total applied for	$70,942,884	$47,321,886	Accepted	$13,452,915	$13,498,766	Noncompetitive	$1,549,285	$1,692,420	Both issues are dated Jan. 19, 1995. The three-month bills mature on April 20, 1995, and the six-month billsmature on July 20, 1995. 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PNC (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (64%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (64%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); RETAIL SALES (74%); INSURANCE (72%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT STUART G HOFFMAN (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



478 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Energy and Precious Metals Lead Rally in Commodities

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Energy and precious metals led a broad rally in commodities yesterday, with forecasts for colder weather in the United States, buoyant economic data and the earthquake in Japan driving markets.
Higher prices for cotton, sugar, coffee and cocoa helped lift the Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities 2.62 points, to 235.58. 
 The recovery in energy prices continued, based on forecasts that a spell of unseasonably warm weather would end by the weekend on the East Coast and in the Midwest, two areas where heating oil and natural gas are used extensively.
The warm weather has also encouraged motorists to take to the roads, increasing gasoline demand. All this as gale-force winds in the oil-rich North Sea have affected tanker loadings and could cut production of crude oil from offshore wells.
"I think the heating oil bottom reversal yesterday attracted buyers and the gasoline continues to attract speculative buyers," Morris Greenberg of Lehman Brothers said yesterday. "And crude going through $18 was a significant psychological factor," he said. "The technicals look good."
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for February delivery jumped 44 cents, to a 10-week high of $18.32 a barrel.
February heating oil gained 1.32 cents, to 48.67 cents a gallon; February gasoline added 0.92 cent, to 57.80 cents, and February natural gas rose 4.4 cents, to $1.434 for one million British thermal units.
Copper prices bounced back strongly after the Federal Reserve reported that the output of the nation's factories, mines and utilities rose a strong 1 percent in December.
Expectations that Japan's rebuilding from the earthquake would increase demand for copper added to the buying, said Bette Raptoupolos, an analyst with Prudential Securities.
The March copper contract rose 3.2 cents, to $1.3885 a pound, on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
Gold and other precious metals rose. The February gold contract was up $2.30, to $380.60 an ounce, on the Commodity Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; HEATING FUEL; WEATHER; EARTHQUAKES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; COPPER, BRASS AND BRONZE; GOLD FUTURES (91%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); HEATING OIL (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); EARTHQUAKES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); COPPER MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); COFFEE MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); WEATHER (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (77%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); HEATING OIL PRICES (77%); MARINE TANKERS (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (75%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



479 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 685 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: Advertising;
An increase in corporate campaigns points to a continuing recovery for Madison Avenue.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
IN another sign that Madison Avenue is continuing to recover from one of its worst slumps ever, an annual study is reporting a healthy increase in corporate advertising.
The 1994 Corporate Advertising Practices survey by the Association of National Advertisers, the New York-based trade organization of leading marketers, found that corporate ads -- aimed at improving consumer and investor perceptions of a company rather than directly selling its products or services -- "have begun to rebound to historically high levels after a recessionary downturn in the late 1980's." 
 Executives of companies belonging to the association who participated in the survey said they would spend $653.9 million on corporate advertising during 1994, a gain of 14.5 percent from the $570.9 million they said they spent in 1993. The 1993 figure represented an increase of 6.7 percent from the $535.2 million they said they spent in 1992.
And 61 percent of responding members said they had used corporate advertising from 1992 through 1994, compared with 53 percent that reported doing so from 1989 through 1991. From 1988 through 1990, 62.8 percent of respondents said they had used corporate advertising, compared with 70.4 percent from 1987 through 1989.
"The trend is up," James R. Gregory, a consultant hired by the association to analyze the study, said yesterday. "All you have to do is open up any publication to see there's more corporate ads than were running a year or so ago."
Mr. Gregory, who offered a preview of the survey in an interview, is chairman of the Corporate Branding Partnership in Stamford, Conn., a corporate image and brand consulting company, as well as chairman of a Stamford advertising agency, Gregory & Clyburne.
"It's good for advertising in general that corporate advertising is increasing," Mr. Gregory said, "because it's an indicator of the strength of all advertising. Usually, corporate advertising campaigns lead the way over product advertising campaigns."
The resiliency of corporate campaigns is somewhat surprising. The severity of the recession, and the dilatory rate at which consumer product marketers are overcoming its effects, suggested that corporate ads might be relegated to the site reserved for yellow "power ties," extravagant gifts and other trappings of the pre-crash 80's.
Yet the bouncing back of corporate advertising spending levels is not that unexpected to Mr. Gregory, who points to what he considers a fundamental change in the nature of corporate ads during the 90's.
"There are more corporate campaigns now about what I call corporate branding," he said, "than about corporate image."
The distinction, Mr. Gregory explained, is that corporate branding ads are "much more marketing-oriented, much more aggressive, much more savvy" than corporate image ads, which "are viewed as fluff and not really valuable, except for self-gratification."
"That type of corporate advertising is eyewash," he asserted, "and people don't pay attention to it."
The primary reason, Mr. Gregory said, is that "corporate image ads are the chairman of the company and the 100th anniversary of the company; they're past tense." He added, "What people are interested in is the future, the company's vision."
As examples of effective current corporate advertising that promotes corporate branding rather than corporate image, Mr. Gregory cited the opening phase of the global campaign for I.B.M. by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, carrying the theme "There is a difference," and the campaign for the Cigna Corporation by DDB Needham New York, carrying the theme "The business of caring."
Mr. Gregory praised those campaigns for offering "one cohesive message," adding, "You can get a lot of benefit from that, relating to familiarity, reputation, cash flow -- even stock price."
To persuade skeptical chief financial officers and chief executives to approve spending scarce corporate dollars for corporate campaigns, Mr. Gregory said, advertising directors should concentrate on the tangible results that can be achieved by a corporate branding approach.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%); ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; INDUSTRY PROFILES MARKETING & ADVERTISING (95%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); BRANDING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); AWARENESS MARKETING (78%); TRENDS (78%); IMAGE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART JAMES R GREGORY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



480 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
The Dollar Rises on Report Of Growth in U.S. Industry

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar gained against most leading currencies yesterday, bolstered by a report that showed strong growth in American industry.
The report, by the Federal Reserve, said capacity utilization at factories, mines and utilities rose to 85.4 percent in December, the highest since October 1979. 
 The report revived expectations that the Fed would raise short-term interest rates later his month.
"These numbers show that the Fed is going to have to raise rates, and that should help the dollar," said Richard Gilhooly, international bond strategist at Paribas Capital Markets.
Higher interest rates typically strengthen the dollar by making investments in dollar-denominated securities more attractive than those from abroad.
Even so, the dollar failed to hold most of yesterday's gains against the mark and other currencies, largely because many traders think the Fed may refrain from raising rates given Mexico's financial crisis and the slumping Canadian dollar.
In New York trading, the dollar rose to 1.5332 German marks, from 1.5316 marks on Monday, and to 1.2865 Swiss francs from 1.2835 francs. The British pound fell to $1.5667 from $1.5683.
Against the yen, the dollar rebounded from an eight-week low during a brief panic prompted by the earthquake that struck the western part of Japan. The dollar rose as high as 99.29 yen in London trading, before settling at 99.13 yen in New York, up from 98.42 on Monday.
In other trading, the Canadian dollar plunged to 70.25 United States cents, its lowest in nearly nine years, before recovering to 70.44 United States cents, down from 70.95 cents on Monday.
The decline came even as the Bank of Canada raised its key lending rate and the Bank of England intervened to buy Canadian dollars in an attempt to prop up the battered currency.
"It's really not in the Bank of Canada's hands" to halt the dollar's decline, said Josh Mendelsohn, chief economist at the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce. All the bank can do is "smooth" the currency's fall, he said.
Traders said the slump in Canada's currency accelerated after The Globe and Mail newspaper in Toronto quoted Al Friedberg, a Toronto money manager, as saying the Canadian dollar "will sink into a worthless piece of paper" unless the Government cuts spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CM (TSX) (82%); CM (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (82%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (82%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION INDEX CURRENCIES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MINING OUTPUT (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); EARTHQUAKES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



481 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Good Morning, Vietnam

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam

 BODY:
In 1966, at the height of the Vietnam War, Senator George Aiken became famous for suggesting that we simply declare victory and bring American troops home. That victory was phony, but 29 years later we truly have one in Vietnam, if winning is measured by a Vietnam that is economically, politically and strategically pro-Western. Yet despite that victory, Washington is reluctant to open full diplomatic relations with Hanoi and consolidate its tentative move into America's orbit. It's time. It's time we started relating to Vietnam as a country, not a conflict. It's time that we declare victory and go back to Vietnam to reap it.
President Bush should have been the one to open relations. He knew it was the right thing to do, and he had the credibility with veterans' groups to do it. But he didn't. (Wouldn't be prudent.) President Clinton, despite his problems with Vietnam vets, has inched closer to Hanoi, by lifting economic sanctions last year and agreeing to a low-level liaison office this year. For months the State Department has been quietly recommending full normalization, but after the midterm Republican rout the White House said "Forget it." (Wouldn't be prudent.) That is America's loss. 
 Vietnam's 72 million industrious, literate people are building a market economy from the ground up. Because U.S. diplomats and businesses are not here in force as the foundation stones are laid and the legal system is reformed, this means U.S. standards, regulations and laws are not being wired in. Australia already dominates the phone system, British Petroleum has the oil sector and Singapore advises on the legal code.
I was riding in a taxi here the other day and the driver was studying English from BBC tapes. For 30 minutes I had to listen to a repetition of: "I like football. I like Manchester United," the prominent British soccer team. When they think football here they don't think Dallas Cowboys, and when they think telephones they don't think AT&T.
Strategically, the big issue in Asia will be the containment of China, whose military might, and appetite, will grow as China grows. There is no more powerful counterweight to Beijing than Hanoi, whose tiny army bludgeoned China's in their 1979 border war. China is Vietnam's historical enemy. Most of Hanoi's boulevards are named for heroes of the wars against China. The biggest display in the Hanoi Army Museum is not of Vietnam's victory over the U.S. in 1975, but its victory over the Mongols from the north in 1288. A U.S.-Vietnam entente would get China's attention -- and keep it.
As for our M.I.A.'s, every U.S. official dealing with this issue says Vietnamese cooperation has improved (not diminished, as opponents of relations predicted) since we lifted the economic embargo. The reason is not anything the Hanoi Government is doing, but because the Vietnamese people, villagers and veterans, are now coming forward with information about graves and bones that they were holding back as long as America was embargoing them economically. U.S. M.I.A. officials say normal relations and more Americans traveling here would only elicit more grass-roots cooperation, which is the only way the 1,621 remaining M.I.A. cases will be resolved.
It is pathetic that a small, vindictive cult of M.I.A. activists in America -- who broadcast U.F.O. sightings of P.O.W.'s roaming the Vietnamese countryside and demand we withhold normalization to punish Hanoi for a war we never should have fought -- have intimidated Washington into a Vietnam policy that is bad for M.I.A.'s and bad for America.
The Vietnamese, who have 300,000 M.I.A.'s, have let the future bury the past. As Deputy Foreign Minister Le Mai told me: "If we nursed all of our grudges with all the powers that we have fought against, we wouldn't have relations with anyone. The war divided your society; recognizing Vietnam would put this behind you. It would heal your own wounds."
He's right. It's time we too buried the past. Hue today is a cuisine, not a battle; Tet is a New Year's celebration, not an offensive; Haiphong is a harbor, not something to be bombed at Christmas; and Highway 1 is where they run the Hanoi Marathon, not the military artery of an enemy nation. President Clinton didn't start this war, and he didn't fight this war, but with a little bit of courage, he could finally end this war.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%); MANU (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (52%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); VIETNAM (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (68%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

COMPANY: BP PLC (53%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIET NAM (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); VIETNAM (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (68%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%); HANOI, VIETNAM (92%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (68%); BEIJING, CHINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VIETNAM WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARMIES (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); ARMED FORCES (78%); VETERANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); SOCCER (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (63%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BILL CLINTON (56%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



482 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Don't Begrudge Veterans Medical Care

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire says that money spent on America's veterans is "the most wasteful special-interest spending in Washington" (column, Jan. 12). Mr. Safire may begrudge the men and women whose health was impaired by military service, but neither taxpayers nor their representatives share his attitude. 
 The country's responsibility to its veterans hasn't and shouldn't lead to unchecked Government spending. Congress, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the White House and veterans demand tough-minded controls over programs, for a dollar wasted is a dollar unavailable to help a deserving former service member.
Besides providing medical care to veterans, the Department of Veterans Affairs provides education to more than half the country's doctors, conducting medical research and serving as primary backup medical provider to the Defense Department.
Despite an increasing number of veterans and skyrocketing private-sector medical expenses, rises in the medical budget for veterans lag behind the rate of medical inflation.
Only veterans with medical problems directly linked to their military service or elderly, sick, low-income wartime vets are guaranteed treatment in a Veterans Affairs medical facility. Many deserving veterans are fighting for high-priority access, including those injured by Agent Orange exposure, atomic testing, asbestos and Persian Gulf syndrome.
Medical centers aren't always in communities with the greatest need. Some veterans are denied benefits because of interpretations of Federal law, as the Supreme Court agreed in a Dec. 12 ruling that the Government has ignored the simple-English interpretation of Federal law on injuries caused by treatment in Veterans Affairs centers.
In 1991 we proposed a plan to improve health care for veterans to the Veterans Affairs Department, the White House and Congress. There are alternatives to long-term institutional care that can be less expensive and more appropriate for patients.
 
WILLIAM M. DETWEILER
National Commander
The American Legion
Washington, Jan. 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS (94%); WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS (94%); WHITE HOUSE&CONGRESS (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: VETERANS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING VETERANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEN'S HEALTH (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); ASBESTOS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); 

PERSON: DETWEILER, WILLIAM M; SAFIRE, WILLIAM WILLIAM L SAFIRE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



483 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: WNYC Shouldn't Go to a Commercial Buyer

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I served as director (1982-88) and chairman (1984-88) of the WNYC Foundation. Before I became chairman, New York City was suffering a severe financial crisis. Some of Mayor Edward I. Koch's advisers urged him to sell the television station, saying the city could not support it. 
 A group led by George Fox, then chairman, came up with the idea of selling the non-prime-time hours to commercial users to support the station and prime-time programs. When I became chairman it was my job to meet with the Mayor and Mary Perot Nichols, WNYC's president, and convince the Mayor the station should not be sold.
This was not very difficult because Mayor Koch believed that the city should not sell the station. He was concerned, however, that it not be a drain on the city. When we proposed selling the non-prime-time hours, the Mayor agreed.
The first year I negotiated contracts with groups from Japan and Italy, among others. One Japanese program, with voiceover, was a news program like our 6 P.M. news. It gave the Japanese community an opportunity to see what was happening in Japan and American audiences a program showing how the Japanese reported on world news.
Little did we dream that the television station would turn a profit and help support its sister radio stations, as noted in "The WNYC's Are Too Valuable to Sell" (editorial, Jan. 10).
When I moved to California I resigned from the foundation. To my regret I have not been involved in its work. But I agree that it would be a mistake to sell the station to a commercial buyer. I pray that the city accepts the foundation's offer to buy the station at a price the foundation can afford.
 
GERALD F. PHILLIPS
Los Angeles, Jan. 11, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WNYC (RADIO STATION); WNYC (TV STATION); WNYC FOUNDATION WNYC FOUNDATION (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: WNYC (RADIO STATION); WNYC (TV STATION); WNYC FOUNDATION WNYC FOUNDATION (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RADIO; STATIONS AND NETWORKS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MAYORS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); 

PERSON: PHILLIPS, GERALD F EDWARD I KOCH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



484 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: QUAKE IN JAPAN: THE COST;
Through Kobe's Rubble, An Economic Rainbow

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 17

 BODY:
The earthquake that ripped through western Japan today has paralyzed one of the nation's commercial hubs, leaving rubble and smoke and panic. It caused colossal damage to Japan's roads, railways and communications and knocked out of commission a port that accounts for 12 percent of the nation's exports.
The quake was the worst in an urban area of Japan in 70 years, ever since the great Tokyo earthquake of 1923, and it struck in a crucial economic zone that includes the business center of Osaka, Japan's third largest city, as well as Kobe, the sixth largest. 
 For all the sophistication of Japanese telecommunications, for all the earthquake preparedness that is drilled into people since they are school children, both Kobe and Osaka were unreachable by telephone from Tokyo throughout today.
Despite the devastation, experts said today that the in some ways the earthquake could give a boost to an economy struggling to recover from a long recession.
It is not the kind of a boost that any country would hope for, but economists and other experts said that the capital spending to rebuild the port city of Kobe may give a stimulus to Japan's economy, the world's largest after America's.
Kobe, a major industrial center, was today isolated from the rest of the country, with roads and rail and ferry service all disrupted. Even the Tokyo office of Kobe municipal government said it had been unable to communicate with people there.
The steel mills of Kobe were closed today, and so was the Osaka Stock Exchange. Many factories in Kobe were also closed, either to assess the physical damage or to wait until roads improved so that employees could come to work again.
Japanese television quoted the Construction Minister, Koken Nosaka, as saying that it would take two or three years to rebuild Kobe.
Officials in the Economic Planning Agency, a Government agency attached to the Prime Minister's office, said they were preparing a report on the economic consequences of the earthquake, but that it was too soon to know what they would be.
One of the most serious consequences appears to be that shipping in and out of Kobe will be impossible until repairs have been made on the docks and on loading facilities.
"The port in Kobe has been badly damaged, and we don't know when it will be ready again," said Yukiko Isomura, of Mitsui OSK, a shipping company. Miss Isomura said that Mitsui had rerouted two ships to Pusan, South Korea, because other ports in Japan were full or inappropriate for the cargoes.
Several companies based in the Osaka area said, however, that they could find other routes to transport exports and imports, and that their facilities had not been seriously damaged.
Matsushita, which makes electronic products under the Panasonic and other brand names, said it had a five-year-old factory in Kobe that turns out personal computers and other products. The factory was not seriously damaged but was closed for the day because electricity had been cut off.
The head office of Matsushita, in Osaka, had some broken windows but no major damage.
At Sanyo Electric Company, the electronics conglomerate, which is also headquartered in Osaka, the only damage was to a factory on Owajishima, the island at the epicenter of the quake. Even that factory, which makes rechargable batteries and other products, was being brought back on line.
"So far it's been fairly minor," said David Lee, a Sanyo spokesman.
While the overall Tokyo stock market fell slightly today, the stocks of construction companies rose in anticipation of the profits to be made from rebuilding Kobe. Companies that make glass or cement, or that are involved in road-building, also saw gains.
The other immediate beneficiaries of the disaster were the "konbini," as convenience stores are known here, for those in the earthquake region immediately sold out of all their food.
"The damage was huge, and it'll have a major impact on the Japanese economy," said Masaru Takagi, chief economist of Fuji Research Institute in Tokyo. "But it won't affect the recovery phase. Japan's economy will continue to recover."
Robert Alan Feldman, a managing director in the Tokyo office of Salomon Brothers, the investment bank, said that in some ways the reconstruction of Northridge following the earthquake there a year ago had helped the southern Californian economy, and he suggested the same would happen in Japan.
"There definitely is going to be a stimulus," he said. "Ironically, this will probably help the economic recovery, although that doesn't mean that the country is better off."
Mr. Feldman and others, while emphasizing that it is much too early to tell with any precision, said that the total repair bill could end up in the range of $ 10 billion to $ 20 billion.
Robert J. Geller, an American earthquake expert who teaches at Tokyo University, said that many of the estimated 9,700 buildings that collapsed in the earthquake were older ones that in any case should have been replaced.
"Obviously you'd like to rebuild in less catastrophic ways, and there'll be a loss because these facilities are out of commission," Professor Geller said. But he noted that tremendous damage could spur growth instead of retard it.
In the United States, representatives of Japanese companies with manufacturing operations in the Osaka-Kobe area spent much of Tuesday trying to get through to the home office. Those who did said that physical damage to plants was negligible, and that most employees survived unscathed.
"We understand there has been no facility damage," said Nancy Levene, a spokeswoman for the Sharp Electronic Corporation, the American subsidiary of the Sharp Corporation, which is based in Osaka. She added that only 20 percent of the company's employees were able to get to work at Sharp's headquarters, where machines like copiers, calculators and faxes are manufactured.
At the Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, which manufactures Panasonic, Techniques and Quasar electronic equipment, Jim Reilly, a company spokesman, said the company's factories "did not suffer major damage."
Toshiba, which employs about 2,000 workers in two plants, one a joint venture with the International Business Machines Corporation, said in the United States that no damage was reported at either plant. The plants are located in Himeji, a town outside Osaka.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 1995, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday surveying the economic disruption caused by the earthquake in Japan misspelled a brand name of Matsushita, an electronics company that reported little disruption. The brand is Technics, not Techniques.


GRAPHIC: Major earthquakes that have hit Japan this century, with their estimated magnitude on the open-ended Richter scale:
 
1923 -- Kanto Plain, 7.9; 140,000 people killed in Tokyo and Yokohama, most by fires. More than 560,000 homes destroyed.
 
1925 -- Kita Tajima, western Japan, 6.8; 428 people killed.
 
1927 -- Kita Tango, western Japan, 7.3; 2,935 people killed
 
1930 -- Kita Izu, west of Tokyo, 7.3; 272 killed.
 
1933 -- Miyagi prefecture, 8.1; A tsunami, or huge post-earthquake wave, as high as 90 feet, killed 3,064 people on the Pacific coast.
 
1943 -- Tottori, western Japan, 7.2; 1,083 people killed.
 
1944 -- Higashi Nankai, central Japan, 7.9; Quake and tsunami killed 998 people on the Pacific coast of Wakayama prefecture.
 
1945 -- Mikawa, central Japan, 6.8; 1,961 people killed in Aichi prefecture.
 
1946 -- Nankai, off central Japan, 8.0; Widespread damage from central Japan to Kyushu, 1,330 people killed.
 
1948 -- Fukui, central Japan, 7.1; 3,769 people killed.
 
1983 -- Akita prefecture, 7.7; 104 killed by underwater earthquake in Sea of Japan, most by tsunami as high as 15 yards.
 
1993 -- Okushiri Island, 7.8; More than 200 people were killed and more than 300 injured by tremors and a tsunami hit northern Japan.
 
1995 -- Kobe, 7.2; More than 2,000 people killed and mor than 12,000 injured.
Chart: "CHRONOLOGY: Major Quakes in Japan"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); KANTO, JAPAN (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); OSAKA, JAPAN (93%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; KOBE (JAPAN); ; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (92%); CHUBU JAPAN (79%); KANTO, JAPAN (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); OSAKA, JAPAN (93%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (54%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); DISASTER PLANNING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); CITIES (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); FERRIES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (70%); TRENDS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (50%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



485 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Personal Health;
Dysthymia: help for chronic sadness.

BYLINE: By Jane E. Brody 

 BODY:
FOR more than 7 million Americans life is no bowl of cherries, the glass is nearly always half empty, the clouds have no silver lining. They have a little-known and often medically ignored yet treatable emotional disorder called dysthymia.
Dysthymia (pronounced dis-THIGH-mee-a) is a mild but chronic depression that can spread a veil of sadness over people's lives for years, even decades, sometimes seemingly from the cradle to the grave. Others may see the people with dysthymia as pessimistic, self-critical, underachieving and lacking in motivation, spontaneity or a sense of adventure. Sufferers may see themselves as suffering from a lack of energy, dissatisfaction, an overall negativism and a belief that things will never get better. They are less likely than others to get married and more likely to be divorced and unemployed or underemployed, although some become high achievers despite their depressed mood. 
 The sleep and appetite disorders common to major depression are less typical of dysthymia. But some patients are plagued by headaches and other pain and chronic fatigue; their multiple visits to doctors rarely result in an accurate diagnosis. Still, many people with dysthymia have joined the Prozac generation, often at the urging of friends who themselves have found that this or some other antidepressant lifts the cloudy filter from their lives.
 
Origins of Dysthymia
 The word dysthymia was coined in the late 1970's by Dr. Robert Spitzer, a psychiatrist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute in New York, to replace "neurotic depression" or "depressive personality," as the condition used to be called. First included in the psychiatric diagnostic manual in 1980, its definition was revised as more was learned.
A study of five communities conducted by Dr. Myrna M. Weissman and colleagues at the Psychiatric Institute found that at any given time about 3 percent of American adults have dysthymia. Other studies indicate that at least 6 percent of people, possibly many more, experience dysthymia at some time.
For some, the problem seems to have been present almost since birth. As children, they may have been irritable and difficult, had trouble making or keeping friends or fallen short of their potential in school. For others, the negative feelings do not begin until adolescence, young adulthood or midlife. Their low-grade depression may be precipitated by a life crisis, like a divorce, job loss or death of a loved one. Or their problem may begin with an episode of major depression that, with or without treatment, abates but never entirely disappears; a condition classified as "major depressive disorder in partial remission," its symptoms are indistinguishable from classic dysthymia.
People with dysthymia are also prone to intermittent attacks of major depression, a condition called double depression. If anything, it is the major depressive episode, not the chronic mild depression, that prompts someone with dysthymia to seek psychotherapeutic assistance.
"We often see dysthymic features in children or adolescents that are the precursors of major depression," said Dr. David Kupfer, director of research at Western Psychiatric Institute in Pittsburgh. Dysthymia runs in families, he added, and the children of people with major depression are at increased risk of developing the milder disorder.
 
Treating Dysthymia
 "Even if you've been depressed all your life, that's no reason not to seek treatment," said Dr. John C. Markowitz, a research psychiatrist at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in New York.
Dr. Kupfer said: "Within the last few years, it's become increasingly clear that the usual treatments for depression are also very effective in dealing with dysthymia."
Dr. James H. Kocsis at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center has reported that about two-thirds of patients with dysthymia get significantly better with antidepressants. The same drugs used to treat major depression, including tricyclic antidepressants like imipramine (Tofranil), MAO inhibitors like phenelzine (Nardil) and serotonin uptake inhibitors like fluoxetine (Prozac), are effective for dysthymia.
However, many patients do not improve with medication and others resist taking drugs or find their side effects intolerable. For them one or more psychotherapeutic techniques may be very helpful. The two that have been most effective in treating depression are cognitive-behavioral therapy, developed by Dr. Aaron Beck at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, and interpersonal therapy, developed by the late Dr. Gerald L. Klerman at Cornell and now being studied for dysthymia by Dr. Markowitz. Both approaches are relatively brief and focus on reversing the negativistic thoughts and self-defeating behavior characteristic of depression.
Cognitive-behavioral therapy involves several months of weekly discussions with a therapist and written and behavioral homework assignments. Through scheduled activities, training in social competence and a modification of irrationally negative thoughts, depression often lifts. In interpersonal therapy, given weekly for about four to six months, the therapist helps patients recognize links between their moods and what is going on in their lives, particularly things like grief, role disputes at work or at home, role transitions like marriage or job loss, and trouble initiating or sustaining relationships.
In a recent review of psychotherapy for dysthymia, Dr. Markowitz wrote that long-term psychodynamic therapy -- Freudian based talk therapy -- is often prescribed though there is no evidence it helps. "Years of such treatment often provide insight into depression but little relief from it," he said. "Therapies that focus on the past are useful for understanding where problems come from, but they don't necessarily help people overcome them." He recommended that people suffering from depression see a psychiatrist or, if they do not want to take drugs, any mental health professional trained in psychotherapy for depression.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 1995, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A listing of symptoms on the Health page yesterday with an article about dysthymia, a mild but chronic depression, misstated the telephone number for information about a treatment study at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. The number is (212) 821-0772.


GRAPHIC: The current psychiatric manual lists these criteria among those for diagnosing dysthymia in patients who do not have other psychiatric disorders:
 
A depressed mood for most of the day, for more days than not, for at least two years, or for one year in children and adolescents.
 
The presence, along with the depression, of two or more of these conditions: poor appetite or overeating; insomnia or hypersomnia (a tendency to sleep too much); low energy or fatigue; low self-esteen; poor concentration or difficulty making decisions, and feelings of hopelessness.
 
As a result of the above symptoms, experiencing clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational or other important areas of functioning.
 
People in the New York area who meet the criteria for dysthymia may be eligible for participation in a free, confidential treatment study under way at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Interested people should call (212) 821-0722.
 
Drawing.
Chart: "Diagnosing Dysthymia"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PERSONAL HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN); HEALTH PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CORNELL MEDICAL CENTER (65%); NEW YORK STATE PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE (67%); WESTERN PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE (67%); WESTERN PSYCHIATRIC INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; DYSTHYMIA; DEPRESSION (MENTAL) DEPRESSION (97%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (88%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (76%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); CHILDREN (67%); 

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E JOHN C MARKOWITZ (55%); DAVID KUPFER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1995



486 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: QUAKE IN JAPAN: THE ENGINEERING;
Damage Survey Points to Design As a Weakness

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KOBE, Japan, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Kunitomo Sugiura took one look at the 550-yard stretch of the Hanshin Expressway, lying on its side like an overturned banquet table, and saw immediately what was wrong.
In much of the elevated highway, which was heavily damaged on Tuesday in the earthquake here, the roadbed rests on horizontal steel girders. But exactly at the points where the toppled section begins and ends, the girders change from steel to reinforced concrete. 
 Concrete is less expensive than steel, and might have been chosen to cut costs in places where the soil was deemed suitable, said Dr. Sugiura, an associate professor of civil engineering at Kyoto University. But concrete is also heavier, he said, and that extra weight probably contributed to the collapse of the expressway, which has become perhaps the most visible symbol of the power of the earthquake.
A variety of design decisions made long ago, as well as the vagaries of location, accounted for the vast structural damage wrought by the earthquake, which destroyed or damaged at least 20,000 buildings.
The quake seemed to wreak its havoc in an almost arbitrary fashion. In some cases houses that were completely flattened lie next to others that seem not to have been scratched. In some tall office buildings and department stores, one floor seems to have completely disappeared while the floors above and below suffered far less damage.
Many of the houses destroyed seemed to be older ones made of wood frame with stucco walls and traditional tile roofs. But there were wooden houses that stood up well and concrete or steel-framed buildings that crumpled.
One factor is how the vibration characteristics of a building match with the vibration of the ground.
Another factor is the kind of soil. The damage was much greater near the coast, where the ground tends to be softer and earth movements therefore greater, than in the hills farther inland.
It will probably take weeks for scientists to sort things out and learn the lessons there are to be learned. But it is clear that the extent of the damage shocked and dismayed Japan's engineers, who prided themselves on earthquake engineering that is widely considered the best in the world.
"It's the first time I've ever seen such horrible damage," said Dr. Sugiura. "I cannot believe the collapse of the highway."
The professor, who did his Ph.D. research at the National Center for Earthquake Engineering Research at the State University of New York at Buffalo, accompanied a reporter on a several-hour survey of the structural damage in part of Kobe and nearby towns.
Much of the trip, coming in from Osaka, was on Route 43, a dark road that runs under the elevated Hanshin Expressway, the main thoroughfare connecting Osaka and the port city of Kobe.
Along the side streets, people could be seen huddled around bonfires, cooking or chatting. Many people were living in their cars, either because they had lost their homes or because they were afraid to stay in their homes because of the risk of aftershocks.
The car drove past massive round reinforced concrete pillars, at least three yards wide, that hold up the expressway. Like many such highways in Japan, the emphasis was on brute strength, not aesthetic appeal. "I don't think you can see such big columns in the United States, even in California," Dr. Sugiura said. But some of the columns were cracked, with their steel reinforcing bars visible inside the concrete.
The highway seemed to have collapsed in three different ways at the three locations that were examined.
At one place where the highway fell, crushing two trucks as if they had been made of paper, a concrete column holding up the roadway collapsed. But the adjacent columns on either side showed no damage. A river ran near the collapsed column, so Dr. Sugiura speculated that the soil had given way in that one spot.
Just down the road was another spot where the columns remained intact but a section of the roadbed had fallen, leaving a bus dangling precariously over a ledge. In this spot, Dr. Sugiura said, two adjacent columns probably vibrated in opposite directions and pulled far enough apart from each other that the roadbed fell off its supports.
The long section that turned on its side, with the roadbed now resembling a vertical wall, probably ended up that way because the ground shook back and forth perpendicular to highway, Professor Sugiura said. Since there is only a single row of pillars supporting the highway, the structure has less resistance to bending side to side than it would have had if there had been two rows of columns.
In perhaps a tribute to the solidness of the structure, the roadbed did not come apart over the 550-yard span, but rather the structure broke at the base of the columns. It seemed that one section tipping over had dragged the next section with it, and so on, in a giant twisting chain reaction.
Next to the fallen highway, most buildings seemed to have barely been damaged.
Many of the houses most heavily damaged were traditional ones built of a wooden frame and stucco walls, including old two-story apartments, known here as bunka jutaku or culture houses, that were built immediately after World War II.
Dr. Sugiura said the wooden structures were light and should therefore withstand an earthquake, and many did. Japan does not use stones and brick in construction because they are heavier and would not withstand quakes as well, he said.
Downtown Kobe, still mostly without electricity, was dark as night fell. But a few bright neon signs, apparently from buildings with their own generators, eerily cut the night. Some of the gleaming office buildings looked fine, but others were cracked or bent. One metal and glass building about 10 stories high was bent in the middle as if it were bowing to passersby.
A nine-story department store had lost its fifth floor. It is possible that on some floors, to allow for more space, support columns were removed, making those floors weaker than others, Dr. Sugiura said.
One big question is how violently the ground shook, which should be known once data from sensors are analyzed, said Dr. Sugiura. If the ground acceleration was truly great, then it would perhaps be no surprise that roads, trestles and buildings collapsed. But if the movement was not so great, it would mean that Japan's anti-earthquake construction codes might have to be tightened.
The code for buildings was tightened after a big earthquake in northern Japan in the late 1960's, Dr. Sugiura said. The code for bridges and highways was revised in 1990.
Before the 1990 revision, elevated structures were designed to withstand an acceleration equal to 20 percent that of gravity. But sensor data have indicated that in some really big earthquakes, perhaps like the one that leveled Tokyo in 1923, the ground acceleration can be 30 to 40 percent that of gravity.
Under the new code, Dr. Sugiura said, a bridge must be able to withstand a medium-size quake, with an acceleration of 20 to 30 percent that of gravity, without damage. It must be able to survive a very big quake, with ground acceleration up to 40 percent of gravity, without collapsing, although it might sustain damage.
This is a compromise between safety and economics, the professor said. Of course, he said, it is possible to design a structure to withstand even a giant earthquake without damage. "But what's the limit?" he asked. One could always imagine a bigger and bigger earthquake, and construction costs would increase endlessly.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Earthquake damage made travel hazardous and sometimes impossible for cyclists as well as motorists in Kobe yesterday.; Rescue workers found 47 patients trapped in the rubble of the crushed fifth floor of a seven-story hospital yesterday. All were rescued. (Photographs by Associated Press) (pg. A12)
 
Diagram: "Earthquakes and Buildings"
 The earthquake that hit Kobe caused many buildings to collapse of simply fall over. Many of the buildings in Kobe were built to conform to earthquake codes, but no amount of planning can compensate for extremely violent tremors near a city. On eoms residential blocks, houses collapsed while others with the same construction were spared, with no apparent pattern.
 
Soil Types:
Buildings built on rock suffer higher-frequency vibrations during an earthquake. They may not topple, but can become unusable because of structural faults.
Buildings on softer soilbeds need special braces because the building can resonate with the quake and vibrate apart. Most of the buildings in downtown Kobe sit on soft soil.
 
Structural Remedies:
High-rise buildings can be built with an elastic architecture that allows them to flex horizontally when the ground shifts.
Buildings constructed with a flexible or "soft" ground floor allow the upper floors to remain upright while the bottom shifts.
 
How Earthquakes Affect Different Building Types
Two wings at right angles with different motions cause damage at the connection pionts.
A building with different heights tends to break at the joints.
As shockwaves move up the building, they increasein amplitude.
Buildings close to one another can collide because the way they vibrate changes with location and height.
(Source: "Earthquakes," Bruce A. Bolt, W.H. Freeman and Company) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; KOBE (JAPAN); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); OSAKA, JAPAN (90%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); ENGINEERING AND ENGINEERS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; DESIGN ENGINEERING (91%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); RETAILERS (51%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



487 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: REPORT TO PATAKI CALLS FOR 13% CUT IN MEDICAID COSTS

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
A report commissioned by Gov. George E. Pataki calls for cutting state Medicaid costs by 13 percent, sharply reducing payments to hospitals and nursing homes and limiting home services, like housekeeping, feeding and bathing for the elderly.
Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey drafted the proposal as a central part of Mr. Pataki's plan to cut taxes while balancing the state budget. The $1.2 billion in cuts Ms. McCaughey is seeking in her proposal represents about one-quarter of the $5 billion the Governor needs to close a $4 million budget gap and deliver $1 billion in income-tax cuts. 
 Medicaid, the health care program for the poor, disabled and some of the elderly, is one of the fastest-growing parts of the state budget and now represents about a fifth of total state spending. Although the program is sponsored by the Federal Government, states set their own standards for care and eligibility; New York's program is by far the most expansive and generous in the nation.
Ms. McCaughey's proposal would represent a major first step away from that standard, actually reducing the total cost of the program.
Pataki administration officials said that the Governor agrees with the plan's overall shape and, in fact, his aides pushed Ms. McCaughey to cut payments to hospitals and nursing homes, the most politically influential beneficiaries of the program. But he has not signed off on the specific cuts.
"Lieutenant Governor McCaughey is a nationally recognized expert on health care," Mr. Pataki said in a statement. "Her proposals warrant my full attention. Many of her ideas and proposals unquestionably will be made part of our executive budget."
Most changes to the Medicaid program must pass the two houses of the Legislature. Spokesmen for both the Republican-controlled Senate and the Democratic-controlled Assembly said yesterday that it was too early for them to comment on Ms. McCaughey's proposal.
While patient advocates and hospitals said yesterday that the quality of care could suffer, the cuts would also help the budgets of municipalities like New York City. Because the cost of Medicaid is divided among the Federal, state and local governments, a reduction by the state in what hospitals receive for services would have the effect of also cutting city payments for the same services.
The plan, announced at a news conference in Manhattan, would bring total state Medicaid spending to $5.2 billion in the next fiscal year, down from this year's estimated total of $5.9 billion. The $1.2 billion in cuts is the decrease from an estimated total of $6.4 billion in the state's share of the program next year. The total cost of the program is $19 billion.
Cuts to health care providers like hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and pharmacies would total $604 million, about half the total cut. The rest of the savings would come from putting more Medicaid patients in managed-care programs and through cuts in services like transportation to doctors' offices, occupational therapy for adults and a substantial reduction in a program used disproportionately in New York State, called personal care. That program provides nonmedical services like cooking and cleaning.
Patient groups said yesterday that the cuts were too deep to insure good care -- though not as deep, they acknowledged, as in Ms. McCaughey's earlier drafts. But Ms. McCaughey disputed that contention, arguing that more managed care could provide better service because patients would see one doctor on a continuing basis.
"We've tried very hard to identify ways to achieve these savings without taking care away from anyone who needs it," she said.
For hospitals, the program would eliminate the annual increases the state pays to hospitals to cover the cost of inflation and allow the state to pay hospitals at lower rates than private insurance companies pay for regular patients. The rates are the same now.
For nursing homes, the annual inflation rate would also be eliminated, and a cap would be placed on profits, along with a long list of smaller savings.
In an earlier draft, Ms. McCaughey had not included cuts for hospitals and nursing home for fear of hurting already weak hospitals -- indeed, her core advisory group was composed almost entirely of such providers. Yesterday, though, she said she could not make her $1.2 billion target without them.
"My job is to present the Governor with a list of options that will help close the deficit," she said. "I would like to do it in a way that didn't take care away from people who really needed it. So we've spread the burden around."
A Pataki administration official said that her plan had to contain those cuts to be credible in the Legislature, which has rejected many proposals similar to the ones advocated by Ms. McCaughey.
"There had to be fairness," said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "Given the fiscal situation, in order to make the necessary cuts, everyone has to tighten their belts."
The plan proposes making it mandatory that all the state's poor patients, as well as some elderly people, enroll in a managed-care program, for a savings of $76 million, which is nearly a third less than Ms. McCaughey had initially estimated. Managed care, in place in New York since 1991, also means a cut in payments to hospitals, because more money is diverted to health-maintenance organizations, which are permitted to charge less than hospitals for Medicaid services.
Hospital and nursing home executives said the combination of lower rates and managed care is too heavy a burden and could cause layoffs of hospital employees that would ultimately hurt the quality of care.
Kenneth E. Raske, president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, said the cut would be worse than any attempted under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. He said he intends to persuade the new Governor and individual lawmakers to work against it.
"I believe that hospitals are prepared to give up something in context of the fiscal crisis," he said. "But the magnitude, I believe, is so devastating that it is important that many of these cuts be called back."
In what may become one of most contentious elements of the plan, Ms. McCaughey proposed a limit of 100 hours a month on all personal-care services, like bathing or feeding. She would also drop services from anyone who receives only personal care not related to hygiene, like cooking or cleaning. Those savings would represent $87 million.
The proposal seeks to save $58 billion in so-called "optional services," most prominently routine dental care for adults. No services for children were cut, and the plan retained benefits like prescription drugs, artificial limbs and eyeglasses.
Her proposal would also seek to save $42 million in transportation costs.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BREAKDOWN: Cutting New York Medicaid" shows breakdown of Gov. George E. Pataki's proposed reduction on Medicaid. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; MEDICARE; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; HEALTH INSURANCE; NURSING HOMES; AGED ; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) MEDICAID (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); AGING (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MEDICARE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); INCOME TAX (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); PHARMACIES (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCAUGHEY, ELIZABETH P (LT GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



488 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: In Urgent Age of Newt, Byrd Slows the Pace

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Over in the House, Republicans are intent on defying the traditional, ever-so-stately pace of the legislative process and pushing through their "Contract With America." But between the Republicans and their dream of a 100-day revolution stands the Senate.
More specifically, Senate Democrats. And most specifically of all, Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia. 
 Mr. Byrd, who has spent 36 of his 77 years in the Senate, reveres the deliberate gait of the legislative process. He boasts on the Senate floor of never having read the Contract With America, the campaign manifesto written by Speaker Newt Gingrich and other House Republicans, and which drives much of political Washington these days. He says he is not about to see his beloved institution fall victim to the "steamroller" of an upstart House, and rush through sweeping legislation without adequate debate and deliberation.
Since Mr. Byrd has served as majority leader, minority leader and President pro tem of the Senate, not to mention whip and committee chairman, he is steeped in the deep magic of the Senate's rules. Even in the urgent Age of Newt, he knows how to slow things down.
"We should not be cowed like whipped dogs," he said this afternoon in an interview that he occasionally interrupted to give arcane instructions to his staff on the filing of first- and second-degree amendments, marshaling his forces for the latest skirmish on the Senate floor. "We should be senators."
This week, Mr. Byrd was helping to lead the slowdown on a Republican bill to make it more difficult for Congress to pass "unfunded mandates" -- laws and regulations that impose new costs on state and local governments without their consent. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, has scheduled a vote for Thursday to try to shut off debate, complaining that the Senate was in the grip of "Byrdlock."
Mr. Byrd responded with the elaborate civilities of an earlier time, saying he had great personal esteem for Senator Dole and valued him as a worthy adversary -- despite what he called the majority leader's penchant for "these little cutesy phrases." Mr. Byrd said he might end up supporting the unfunded mandate bill, but he wanted to make sure it is fully considered.
All week the Capitol has been buzzing as these two seasoned warriors began to maneuver around each other; it is considered part of the early testing for the battle over a constitutional amendment to require a balanced budget.
"I know the Senator from West Virginia is a master at the game," Mr. Dole observed wryly on the Senate floor the other night. "He knows the balanced budget amendment is somewhere on the horizon."
The amendment, of course, is a top priority for the Republicans, and some Democrats as well; it is anathema to Senator Byrd, who describes it as a gimmick being rammed through without giving the public "any idea of how we are going to enact over one trillion dollars of spending cuts and tax increases over the next seven years."
Mr. Byrd also argues that this amendment and the line item veto, which would allow the President to eliminate specific items from the budget, represent a fundamental shifting of power from the legislative to the executive and judicial branches of the Government.
Asked this afternoon how hard he will oppose the balanced budget amendment, the Senator replied in the gentle cadence of the West Virginia coal fields: "To me there is no 50 percent of the way, or 75 percent. It's 100 percent with me. I have reasons based on weeks, months, years of study."
Few relish the idea of matching wits and rules with Mr. Byrd. Senator Dirk Kempthorne, the 43-year-old Idaho Republican who is managing the unfunded mandate bill on the floor, acknowledged that he was on a "steep learning curve" but added, "I think I'll learn by watching him maneuver."
Mr. Byrd is a product of Depression-era West Virginia, and has watered his political roots with considerable Federal largesse through his role first as chairman and now as ranking member of the Appropriations Committee. He is for all intents and purposes free of electoral concerns. He won re-election last November with 69 percent of the vote -- a fact that he notes when confronted with the Republicans' claim of an electoral mandate for their Contract With America.
"I carried every county in West Virginia," he says. "I didn't get a mandate to roll over and play dead like a whipped dog."
At a time when much of the debate on the floor is packaged for television, Senator Byrd harkens back to an earlier time. To wit: "I have never been very convivial with respect to making the U.S. Senate a second House of Representatives." He muses on the framers of the Constitution, the role of a legislator, the sinfulness of man, the meaning of eternity, the virtues of the King James version of the Bible.
There are an array of rules that an individual senator can invoke to work his will, and Mr. Byrd is said to know more of them than almost anyone. This week, for example, he relied on a little used rule that said committees could meet freely only until the third hour of the Senate's legislative day, after which a senator could stop them by objecting.
He is also noted for his ability to structure amendments, which was at the heart of the battle over the Clinton Administration's economic stimulus package. In that case, Mr. Byrd's tactics helped stiffen opposition that ultimately scuttled the bill.
Mr. Dole vowed today to "try to keep up with Newt and the House Republicans," although asserting, "Senator Byrd feels so strongly about the balanced budget amendment that he'll do anything he can to prevent that coming to the floor."
Mr. Byrd, for his part, seemed unperturbed by the coming struggle. "Time is in the interest of good legislation," he said, coolly.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia in his new office yesterday. Behind him are portraits of all of the Senate's presidents pro tem. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (63%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN; BYRD, ROBERT C (SEN) ROBERT BYRD (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



489 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 22; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up on Revived Sense That Fed Will Raise Rates

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against most leading currencies yesterday on revived expectations that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates at the end of the month.
Comments from a top Fed official and a regional survey of economic conditions by the central bank helped to underscore perceptions of a robust American economy, renewing expectations that the Fed would raise short-term interest rates after its policy-making committee meets on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1, currency dealers said. 
 Late last week, relatively weak retail sales figures were reported, arousing speculation that the Fed might limit or even forgo a rate rise.
Today, though, in an interview, the Federal Reserve's vice chairman, Alan S. Blinder, said the economy had so far shown few signs of slowing down. He added that he might be willing to back another increase in interest rates.
"Basically the comments from Blinder seemed to set the dollar off," said Curtis Perkins, vice president at the Chemical Bank.
The Fed, in a periodic survey of the economy in its 12 bank districts, said strong consumer spending was contributing to a vigorous economic expansion. The report also said inflationary expectations were rising.
Some dealers said the dollar was also aided by speculation that Germany's central bank might allow a short-term interest rate to trade lower this week. But several others said the chance of such a reduction was remote.
Over all, dealers saw the dollar confined to a relatively narrow range, with little to push the currency too far in either direction.
In New York trading late yesterday, the dollar rose to 1.5344 German marks from 1.5332 marks on Tuesday. The dollar advanced to 99.57 Japanese yen, from 99.13 on Tuesday. The British pound edged up to $1.5700 from $1.5667.
In other currency trading, the Canadian dollar continued to weaken. That currency has been under pressure because of investors' concerns over the country's high budget deficit and because interest rates in Canada continue to lag behind rising rates in the United States. The Canadian dollar has fallen 1.3 percent so far in 1995.
It reached an eight-year low of 70.16 United States cents yesterday before recovering to 70.423 cents, down from 70.44 cents on Tuesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM CHEMICAL BANK (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (93%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); RETAIL SALES (70%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (67%); 

PERSON: ALAN S BLINDER (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



490 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Russia at Odds, Despite Talks

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 18

 BODY:
The United States and Russia talked past each other today.
In intense meetings aimed at repairing the deteriorating relationship between their countries, Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev could not agree on how to resolve Russia's war in the rebel region of Chechnya or how to bridge the gaps on other issues. 
 Although both men noted at a news conference afterward that their countries' relationship was reaching "maturity," it was impossible to conceal their differences.
Mr. Kozyrev insisted that Russia's war in Chechnya was "a purely domestic affair," while Mr. Christopher warned that the war was exacting too high a price for Russia both at home and abroad.
"What we don't want to see is a Russia mired in a military quagmire that erodes reform and tends to isolate Russia," Mr. Christopher said in his opening statement to the media. "I reiterated to the Foreign Minister that the conflict must be brought to an end."
Mr. Kozyrev looked visibly uncomfortable as Mr. Christopher delivered his stern message. The Russian official stared down at the table in front of him, fiddling with his pen and shaking his left foot nervously.
By contrast, Mr. Kozyrev dismissed the American criticism of the repression of the Chechen rebellion, where thousands have been killed and tens of thousands wounded or made homeless in more than five weeks of fighting. He said that over the last two decades American presidents have deployed American troops inside the United States a number of times.
"Any democratically elected president, in accordance with the constitution, has the right and sometimes the obligation to give orders of that kind," he said.
Mr. Kozyrev offered no suggestion that President Boris N. Yeltsin, accused by many former supporters of adopting heavy-handed Soviet-style behavior, needed to make peace with the Russian reformers who have deserted him.
Rather, Mr. Kozyrev suggested half seriously that Mr. Yeltsin had no need for them. "I must say, as a kind of joke, but which has some truth in it, that in order to restore the relations with the reformists, the President needs only to come up to the mirror, because he himself is the major reformer," Mr. Kozyrev said.
Mr. Kozyrev also registered concerns that Congress may cut aid to Russia and delay ratification of the second strategic arms reduction accord. And he equated his concerns about Congress with Mr. Christopher's concerns about Chechnya.
During their six-and-a-half-hour meeting, Mr. Christopher raised other issues that have put the Russian-American relationship on a continuing downward spiral for the last several months -- its failure to provide the United States with a detailed accounting of its arms deals to Iran, as Mr. Yeltsin promised Mr. Clinton in Washington last fall; its eagerness to reward Iraq by lifting at least some economic sanctions, and its refusal to provide sufficent information about its chemical weapons stockpiles and manufacturing plants.
But more than once, Mr. Christopher recited positive pledges that Mr. Kozyrev had made to him in private -- a commitment to continue economic reform and democratization in Russia, a willingness to send relief and refugee aid to Chechnya and a determination to work for a peaceful settlement of the war and for democratic elections.
In addition, Mr. Christopher was unwilling to issue threats that the Administration would be loath to carry out. Although Mr. Kozyrev offered no concrete formula either in public or private for ending the fighting in Chechnya, Mr. Christopher assured him that the Administration would oppose any effort by the new Republican-dominated Congress to cut American aid to Russia.
On the contrary, the United States intends to ask Congress for "substantial" amounts of new aid for Russia in its budget requests, a senior aide to Mr. Christopher said.
In another conciliatory gesture, Mr. Christopher today began a formal dialogue with Russia on how it could someday be linked with NATO.
Last month in Brussels, Mr. Kozyrev stunned both Mr. Christopher and other NATO foreign ministers when he refused to sign documents to formalize Russia's participation in a plan for ushering Russia into military cooperation with NATO. Although Mr. Christopher urged Mr. Kozyrev to sign the documents as soon as possible, he declined to say when he would do so.
The positive gestures are part of the Administration's strategy throughout the Chechnya crisis -- to use every opportunity to back both Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Kozyrev as reformers and democrats.
In an apparent effort at diplomatic damage control after the news conference, three senior aides to Mr. Christopher told reporters that Mr. Kozyrev's demeanor in private was more conciliatory than his public performance. One senior official even called the talks the "most productive" encounter ever between Mr. Christopher and his Russian counterpart.
Another said, "They weren't bad at all."
Indeed, Mr. Kozyrev injected a few positive comments into his critical ones.
Russia "will not permit" the emergence of a "cold peace" between Russia and the West, he said. His remarks apparently were intended as a corrective to Mr. Yeltsin's assault on the United States and its NATO allies at a European summit meeting in Budapest last month, in which he declared that the expansion of NATO was anti-Russian and that the West was "in danger of plunging into a cold peace."
Mr. Kozyrev also publicly expressed concern about "the lengthy nature" of the Chechen war as well as human rights violations in the breakaway republic. And he pledged, albeit in vague terms, that Russia is determined to find a political solution for Chechnya that would both keep it inside the Russian federation but allow its people to elect its own representatives.
But it is not at all certain that Mr. Kozyrev is able shape his country's foreign policy or the outcome of the Chechnya crisis. When asked by Mr. Christopher if he was sure that the recent Russian proposal for a cease-fire would go into effect, one senior American official said, Mr. Kozyrev bluntly replied that he was not.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); TRENDS (66%); POLITICS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); KOZYREV, ANDREI V (MIN) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



491 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: Survey by Fed Reports A 'Vibrant' Economy

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Growth of the economy "remained vibrant" into early January, with divergences narrowing among various parts of the country, a periodic survey of conditions in the 12 Federal Reserve districts showed today.
But the robust expansion, which is widely thought to have approached an annual rate of 5 percent in the final quarter of 1994, has begun to generate evidence of spreading inflation, the report said. 
 "Labor markets continued to strengthen," leading in some areas to upward pressure on wages, the Fed found in its so-called beige book survey that is conducted in preparation for meetings of its Federal Open Market Committee, the central bank's rate-setting group. "Price increases seemed somewhat more widespread than were reported in early December."
But there were other indications today that economic growth could be slowing. The Commerce Department said business inventories rose for an eighth month in November, suggesting that companies built up stocks in anticipation of strong holiday sales that did not materialize.
Still, the Fed's report, though dismissed by some economists as anecdotal, spurred expectations that the bank would again raise short-term interest rates, probably at its two-day meeting that begins on Jan. 31.
Adding to this belief today was the expression of inflation concern by Alan S. Blinder, the Fed's vice chairman. "I think a fair reading of the evidence is that whatever the danger was two months ago, it looks bigger now," Mr. Blinder said in an interview with Reuters.
In the survey published today, compiled by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago from information collected from business and other outside sources before Jan. 10, some districts showed rather strikingly that price pressures had spread beyond commodities and goods at relatively early stages of production.
The Minneapolis Fed, for example, cited tight job conditions, "higher wage increases than were common in recent years" and increasing shortages of some raw materials and semifinished items despite what have become common price rises.
Yet inquiries from the Cleveland Fed found "few indications of any broad-based wage pressures" and price pressures still largely confined to industrial commodities. Kansas City reported that pressure had eased in the market for skilled factory and construction workers.
In summarizing the overall findings, the Fed described retail sales as having increased at a "moderate pace" during the holiday shopping season, with "weather effects and other factors" restricting gains and masking "stronger underlying momentum in spending growth."
A Commerce Department tally last week, based on a small sample of outlets, showed retail sales essentially flat in December.
Mexico's economic crisis was cited by the Dallas and San Francisco district banks as quickly causing a drop in sales to Mexican shoppers now limited by a sharply devalued peso. Stores along the border were said by the Dallas bank to expect no pickup for at least three months.
"Manufacturers continued to provide some of the strongest reports within the districts, although the overall growth rate may have slowed modestly," the beige book declared.
Higher mortgage rates have curtailed house building in most regions, the survey found, but much of the slack has been taken up by commercial buildings and apartments.
In the New York district, recent developments indicate "some improvement" over all, with holiday sales meeting or slightly exceeding expectations and activity in office leasing vigorous enough to reduce vacancy rates in areas including downtown and midtown Manhattan.
The Commerce Department's report said business inventories rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in November, totaling a seasonally adjusted $919.8 billion in November. Analysts had expected the gain but said leaner stockpiles might be ahead.
The department also reported that all business sales, about a third of which are retail, rose 1 percent in November after advancing three-tenths of 1 percent in October. The inventory-to-sales ratio remained at 1.40 -- barely up from its low of 1.39 in August. It would take 1.4 months to exhaust stockpiles at the November sales rate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (68%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (68%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); DEVALUATION (62%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR ALAN S BLINDER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



492 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: DIARY;
Developments in Congress

 BODY:
HOUSE: It was easily the most chaotic day since lawmakers convened two weeks ago. First there was a clash on the floor as Democrats pressed their attack on Speaker Newt Gingrich's book deal and Republicans sprang to his defense. On a party-line roll-call of 217 to 178, the House voted to strike from the record comments made by Representative Carrie P. Meek, a Florida Democrat who asked -- in a part of her text that Republicans prevented her from delivering -- "Who does this Speaker really work for? Is it the American people or his New York publishing house?" Then the Mexican financial crisis threatened to become a flash point. Republican leaders said they would demand that Democrats produce substantial votes for the $40 billion rescue measure the Clinton Administration is drafting. Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, said he wanted more than half the Democratic caucus to support the measure. "It's their President," he said. 
 SENATE: By dawn's early light, members of the Senate Judiciary Committee gathered to take up the balanced-budget amendment to sidestep the parliamentary footwork of Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia. On Tuesday, Mr. Byrd tied the committee in knots by invoking an obscure Senate rule that allows any senator to block a committee from meeting more than two hours after the Senate has convened for the day. Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who heads the committee, thanked panel members for showing up this morning at 8:30. The committee went on to approve the amendment -- intended to balance the Federal budget by 2002 -- by a vote of 15 to 3 and sent it to the full Senate for action. Constitutional amendments require a two-thirds vote of each house and ratification by 38 state legislatures.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESS (US) UTAH REPUBLICAN (69%); SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATION (79%); CAUCUSES (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PUBLISHING (72%); STRIKES (71%); APPROVALS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (72%); ORRIN HATCH (58%); ROBERT BYRD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



493 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Top Prospect for C.I.A. Post Is Said to Have Doubts About Job

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
Deputy Defense Secretary John M. Deutch, once regarded as the front-runner to become Director of Central Intelligence, has expressed serious reservations about taking the job, leaving the White House to widen its search.
Associates said today that Mr. Deutch was reluctant to give up his policy position at the Pentagon. They also said he had concluded that because of academic sensitivities about the Central Intelligence Agency his serving as its chief could prevent his becoming president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was provost. 
 White House officials had described Mr. Deutch as an ideal candidate to succeed the former director, R. James Woolsey, who abruptly resigned last month. But aides to President Clinton said that while Mr. Deutch's decision had complicated their search the President would not try to persuade him to reconsider.
At the same time, officials said it now appeared unlikely that Erskine B. Bowles, the consensus choice to succeed Robert E. Rubin as head of the National Economic Council, would be installed in that post. The officials said that Mr. Bowles had done so well as deputy White House chief of staff for operations that Leon E. Panetta, the chief of staff, did not want to lose him. The officials said the job of coordinating Administration economic policy might instead go to Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
In addition to the economic and intelligence vacancies, two other top posts, White House political director and Cabinet liaison, remain unfilled, underscoring the difficulty Mr. Clinton has had in choosing people for important Administration positions.
In saying today that a decision on a new intelligence chief would probably not be made until next week, Administration officials noted that William J. Crowe Jr., a retired admiral who had also been mentioned as a candidate, had indicated that he would prefer to remain Ambassador to Britain.
Among the candidates still being considered, the officials said, is Senator William S. Cohen, the Maine Republican who is a former vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee. But Mr. Cohen has said he has no plans to leave the Senate.
Others mentioned are Jamie Gorelick, the Deputy Attorney General; Adm. William A. Owens, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Samuel R. Berger, deputy national security adviser.
The officials cautioned that information about the search was being tightly held. Some said they suspected that only Mr. Clinton, Mr. Panetta, Vice President Al Gore and Anthony Lake, the national security adviser, knew precisely who was under consideration.
Mr. Deutch was highly regarded because he had showed himself an effective manager at the Pentagon, worked well with Congress and already knew a great deal about the intelligence agencies' operations. He and Mr. Woolsey have reviewed major intelligence issues, including photo reconnaissance and electronic eavesdropping, which together consume perhaps a third of the nation's $28 billion intelligence budget.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deputy Defense Secretary John M. Deutch, who associates say has withdrawn from consideration as Director of Central Intelligence. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (51%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (71%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (70%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (51%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ESPIONAGE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); BUDGETS (72%); ARMED FORCES (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; DEUTCH, JOHN M (DEPUTY SEC) BILL CLINTON (78%); ERSKINE BOWLES (72%); LEON E PANETTA (58%); AL GORE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



494 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: Woman in the News: Elizabeth Peterken McCaughey;
Taking On a Challenge

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
When she wanted to sidestep a question during the campaign, Betsy McCaughey would often smile and say, "I'm an expert in policy, not politics."
Now, as New York's Lieutenant Governor, Ms. McCaughey, a constitutional scholar with no previous experience in government, has taken on her first test as a policy maker with one of the state's knottiest and most expensive problems: revamping the $19 billion Medicaid system, which provides health care for the poor, disabled and elderly. 
 In turning to Ms. McCaughey (pronounced muh-COY) to succeed where others have failed, Gov. George E. Pataki chose a person who rose to prominence, and earned her spot on his ticket, because of articles she wrote just a year ago meticulously criticizing President Clinton's health care plan.
Yesterday, she released a Medicaid cost-cutting proposal that subjects her to the same sort of detailed scrutiny as she strives to change to one of the nation's largest government-run health care programs -- a system protected by litigious patient groups as well as powerful special interests like the hospitals and nursing homes that donate generously to Republicans, including Mr. Pataki.
By seeking more than half of the $1.2 billion she wants to cut from those very hospitals and nursing homes, Ms. McCaughey has already shifted course from her initial intention to spare them -- suggesting a grasp of political and economic reality and a willingness to bend when it became clear the administration wanted to spread the pain evenly between patients and providers.
The real power behind her role remains in question: her work may well be ignored as the Legislature and the Governor hammer out a deal. But at the very least, Mr. Pataki has brought greater prominence to his Lieutenant Governor than many of her predecessors have had. (Ms. McCaughey herself was kept to the sidelines in the campaign.)
For Ms. McCaughey, 46, the role represents her first chance to create the better health care system she has written about for the last year -- in articles for The New Republic and The Wall Street Journal that were praised for their earnestness and persuasive use of detail, and criticized for what some called shoddy scholarship and a conservative bent.
By proposing to force nursing homes and hospitals to share the cost-cutting burden, she underlined what she has already said: that she does not want to balance the Medicaid budget on the backs of the poor. Though she now lives on Park Avenue in Manhattan and sends her three daughters to private schools, she said that commitment to the poor stretches back to childhood.
"I did not grow up as a wealthy person," she said in an interview late last year. "My dad was a factory worker. And my brother was a serious asthmatic as a child. I remember my parents sitting at the kitchen table wondering if they could afford to take my brother to the hospital. So I'm firmly committed to Medicaid as part of the social safety net."
Elizabeth Peterken McCaughey, who prefers to be called Betsy, was born with her twin brother William in Pittsburgh on Oct. 10, 1948. Her father, Albert Peterken, a maintenance man in a fingernail-clipper factory, moved his wife, Ramona, and their children around the Northeast before settling in Westport, Conn., when Elizabeth was 6.
In 11th grade, she won a scholarship to Mary Burnham School for Girls in Northampton, Mass., and then another scholarship to Vassar College. There, she said, she largely ignored Vietnam War protests, spending her time reading in the library. She was the first member of her family to graduate from college.
She received a master's degree from Vassar in 1972, then moved to New York City with her husband, Thomas K. McCaughey, a Yale student she met at college. Separated since 1992, they were divorced early last year. They have three daughters -- Amanda, 15, Caroline, 13, and Diana, 10 -- who live with their mother. Last month, she announced her engagement to Wilbur L. Ross Jr., an investment banker who was a fund-raiser for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo.
In 1976, she was awarded a doctorate in constitutional history by Columbia University, and she has taught there and at Vassar. Until a few years ago, she was registered to vote as an independent. "I always assumed her to be a middle-of-the road Democrat," said Henry Graff, the Presidential studies expert who taught her at Columbia.
Ms. McCaughey began to be noticed in political circles last February after her articles on the Clinton health care plan struck a chord, provoking a White House response.
A few weeks before the Republican State Convention in May, Mr. Pataki, who had read her articles, met with her for the first time, but she says he did not recruit her as a running mate until the night before her designation by the convention.
She attacked her task of Medicaid cost-cutting with what has become a familiar pattern: collecting and digesting scores of documents from which she spits out factoids at random. This was how she tackled the Clinton health care plan. This was also the way, as she tells the story, that she rose from her working-class roots. Study, she once said, "was my one big chance in life."
However, some critics of her health care articles, which argued that the Clinton health care bill would limit choices for medical care, say she deftly dissected the bill's language but showed little understanding of how that language would translate into real programs.
"It was the kind of reasoning, if you could find a loophole you wrote half a page about it and ignored the context," said John Rother, the legislative director for the American Association of Retired People, which supported health care reform but did not endorse the Clinton plan.
But John R. Zagame, executive director of the New York Association of Counties, which has lobbied to lighten Medicaid costs on localities, said she has to her advantage that "she has not been tainted by the cynicism and sense of helplessness people in Albany have about Medicaid -- that you cannot change it."
Ms. McCaughey's urgency about Medicaid flows over every detail-laden sentence she speaks. "It is the most interesting intellectual problem," she said. "It is the intersection of economics, ethics, science, medicine, public policy and politics."
Already, she has begun the transition from scholar to politician. "Academics are soloists," she said during the campaign, "and successful candidates are team players."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey detailing a report yesterday on changes in Medicaid at a news conference. Gov. George E. Pataki turned to Ms. McCaughey to take on the challenge of revamping the $19 billion Medicaid system, a task at which others have previously failed. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TITLE: WOMAN IN THE NEWS (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%); MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MEDICAID (90%); POLITICS (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; MCCAUGHEY, ELIZABETH C (LT GOV) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



495 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: Orange County Sells Risky Securities and Cuts Its Loss

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Jan. 18

 BODY:
Officials of Orange County, Calif., announced today the sale of all risky securities in the county's ill-fated investment pool, leaving it with a loss of $1.69 billion rather than the $2.02 billion predicted earlier.
"The hemorrhaging has stopped," said Thomas W. Hayes, the former California state treasurer who was hired by the county to sell the portfolio. "The pool now has short-term liquid securities and is safe. The pool will continue as an investment entity." 
 In a rare bit of good news, county officials said that gains from the sale of securities in the investment fund, along with accounting adjustments, had led to the revised number. This means that, on average, the local governments and others that invested in the fund are now expected to lose 22.3 percent of their money, not 27.2 percent, as initially expected.
Heavy borrowing by the Orange County investment pool to finance a risky bet on falling interest rates led to the bankruptcy, on Dec. 6, of one of the nation's most affluent counties. On filing for bankruptcy, Mr. Hayes, aided by Salomon Brothers, began to dispose of the portfolio. They traded risky securities for safer ones, while trying to make an accurate accounting of all the money in the fund.
The task was necessary so that all investors in the fund -- including Orange County itself and 186 other local government entities -- would have an accurate sense of how much money they lost. The selling also stopped the fund from losing even more money from a change in interest rates.
The reorganization of the portfolio was completed ahead of the 90-day timetable.
Currently, there is $5.88 billion left in the pool, some $5.13 billion in marketable securities and $540 million in cash. Of the $20 billion once held by the investment pool, about $13 billion was borrowed. The amount of cash put into the investment fund by Orange County and 186 municipalities in the area is now estimated at $7.57 billion -- not the $7.42 billion initially cited by officials.
Mr. Hayes said that part of the improvement over initial loss estimates came after Arthur Andersen accountants, piecing together fund documents, found some securities and investments that had not previously been accounted for. These included $310 million in cash, $150 million more in pool investments, along with $92 million in previously unidentified securities.
In addition, gains from the sale of securities in the pool exceeded initial estimates by $36 million. It was not disclosed how much profit and fee income Salomon Brothers received for selling the wide variety of risky securities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SBW (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (52%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SRL (52%); ARTHUR ANDERSEN SPA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; BANKRUPTCIES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (87%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE THOMAS W HAYES (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



496 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: With Opposition Rising, Clinton Pleads for Mexico Rescue Package

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 18

 BODY:
With Democrats and freshman Republicans alike in open revolt over the Administration's plan for a financial rescue package for Mexico, President Clinton made an unusual, direct appeal today to keep that country afloat.
Making his case to a group of business leaders, Mr. Clinton warned that Mexico's economic problems were "plainly also a danger to the economic future of the United States." 
 Mr. Clinton's warnings came as he and senior members of the Administration tried to calm angry voices in Congress and to underscore their argument that stabilizing the United States' most-populous neighbor is a matter of national security, not economics.
But many Democrats and several freshman Republicans angrily responded that American taxpayers were being asked to bail out fiscally inept Mexican leaders and large American investors who had poured money into Mexican stocks and bonds, rather than helping the near-bankrupt District of Columbia or bankrupt Orange County, Calif.
For the first time, Mr. Clinton said today that he was also acting out of fear that Mexico's fiscal crisis could spread to other economies on which the United States is increasingly dependent.
"If we fail to act," the President said in the Cash Room of the Treasury, where a group of business executives had been hastily gathered, "the crisis of confidence in Mexico's economy could spread to other emerging countries in Latin America and Asia, the kind of markets that buy our goods and services today and that will buy far more of them in the future."
That Mr. Clinton felt compelled to make a public case for a package he has already negotiated with Congressional leaders seemed to underscore how much trouble the White House fears it may be facing. The confrontation is the most serious challenge yet to the guiding thought behind Mr. Clinton's foreign and domestic economic policy: That free trade and the exports it generates are the main fuel for new jobs and prosperity in the United States.
As an economic aide to Mr. Clinton said today, "What the White House is learning is that economic interdependence goes two ways, down as well as up."
Mr. Clinton's advisers said they believed that the $40 billion loan guarantee package would prevail on Capitol Hill, although perhaps with a long list of extraordinarily strict conditions that may cause the Mexican Government to bridle.
"It will be more contentious than we thought," said Representative Bill Richardson, Democrat of New Mexico, as he emerged from a meeting with Vice President Al Gore. "We could defeat this legislation."
One senior Administration official said he hoped to have the rescue package passed in the House and Senate by the end of this week, the kind of swift action that the Treasury Department contends is needed to keep the markets calm. But that time frame now seems unlikely, and today the Mexican stock market began to decline again as investors grew nervous that the United States help promised last week might not be forthcoming.
Mexico's hope is to use the loan guarantees for psychological advantage, assuring investors without actually using the American guarantees and paying the hefty fees Washington would charge to cover the risk taken by taxpayers. That fee, essentially an insurance premium, could total more than $3 billion.
Mr. Gore argued today that the United States could reap a significant profit on the deal with Mexico. Both he and Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin are trying to head off an effort by conservatives in Congress to append conditions to the loan guarantee, including requiring Mexico to try to stop illegal aliens from nearing the United States border and requiring Mexico to turn over part of its state-owned companies as collateral.
Mexico is so weakened economically by its current devaluation crisis that it can do little to oppose such demands. But Mexican officials say some political demands are not negotiable.
An official in the office of President Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon who insisted on anonymity said: "Are you going to see Mexican soldiers policing the border? No. Will you see D.E.A. agents freely patrolling the streets? No."
At the heart of Mr. Clinton's national security argument is the fear that a devalued peso will make the United States more attractive than ever to illegal aliens from Mexico. The White House projected on Tuesday that if Mexico's financial problems worsened, 430,000 more illegal aliens would enter Texas and California this year, a 30 percent increase over the number who usually sneak across the border.
So far, the evidence is scarce. Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service along the border said today that there had not been any unusual increase in illegal crossings since the value of the peso began to fall just before Christmas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ORANGE COUNTY REGISTER (56%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); BONDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); TRENDS (60%); NATIONAL SECURITY (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); LAURA RICHARDSON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



497 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Are Mostly Flat on Fed Data

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
In unusually heavy trading, the stock market closed mixed but essentially unchanged yesterday as new data from the Federal Reserve indicated that inflation might still be lingering in the economy.
The prospect of favorable corporate earnings this month is helping to support what would otherwise be a market depressed by inflation fears, analysts said. 
 Reports of strong operating earnings from the Intel Corporation and other technology companies helped lift the Nasdaq index a bit yesterday, as other widely held technology companies like Apple Computer are set to report today. Computer industry stocks were the only group whose shares gained more than 20 percent last year.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.68 points, to 3,928.98, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.34 point, to 469.71. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 0.24 point, to 772.38.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was higher than normal, with 345.2 million shares changing hands, about 8 percent above this year's daily average of 320 million shares and 19 percent above last year's daily average of 290 million shares.
Even with yesterday's slowdown, all three leading stock indexes are nearing their 1994 highs. The Dow is just 1 percent away from its peak of 3,978.36 on Jan. 31, 1994, while the S.& P. 500 is 2.5 percent shy of its high of 482 points on Feb. 2. The Nasdaq is the farthest away, about 4 percent less than its high of 803.93 on March 18.
Traders seemed to brace yesterday for the inflation-is-still-here data from the Federal Reserve's staff. Stock prices dropped sharply before noon, when the Fed briefing book, known as the beige book, was released.
Based on economic data collected earlier this month from the Fed's 12 district banks, the Fed's staff concluded that price increases "seemed somewhat more widespread than were reported in early December."
Using this and other data, Fed governors may well raise interest rates again. The stock market rallied on Friday and Monday, in part because traders were betting the Fed would moderate or even forgo a rate increase at its Jan. 31-Feb. 1 policy meeting.
Against this market-depressing tide, Intel reported on Tuesday that it had seen an increase of more than 40 percent in operating income before taking into account a large charge for replacement of its flawed Pentium computer chips.
"The market focused on the operating number," said Tim Grazioso, managing director in charge of Nasdaq trading at Cantor Fitzgerald & Company. "So Intel pretty much raised the entire Nasdaq group."
Erika Klauer, semiconductor analyst at Salomon Brothers, said Intel management was upbeat with analysts about 1995 trends, with expectations of perhaps 30 percent growth, to 64 million computer chips, and more than a third of that number the lucrative Pentium chip. Accordingly, Ms. Klauer, who has a buy recommendation on the stock, sees Intel's share price rising this year to between $85 and $90.
Yesterday, Intel rose 2 3/8, to 69 3/8, and was the second-most-active stock of the day, with nearly 12 million shares changing hands. The most active stock was RJR Nabisco, with nearly 12.1 million shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. It slipped 1/8, to 5 5/8.
The earthquake in Japan depressed some American stocks. Procter & Gamble said that two of its six plants in Japan were damaged. P.& G. shares dropped 1 3/8, to 61 7/8.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.28 point, to 255.97, with advancing stocks lagging behind declining issues by 1,061 to 1,171. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 0.88 point, to 439.97.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) INTEL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (50%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); INFLATION (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPUTER CHIPS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY ERIKA KLAUER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



498 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
BANKAMERICA CORP. (BAC,N)

BYLINE: Reuters 

 BODY:
The BankAmerica Corporation said yesterday that its earnings rose in the fourth quarter and full year based on stronger interest income and reduced credit losses.
The nation's second-largest banking company said net income in the quarter ended Dec. 31 advanced 19.2 percent, to $591 million, or $1.41 a share, from $496 million, or $1.21 a share, in the comparable period a year earlier. 
 Net interest income increased by $147 million in the quarter, the bank, which is based in San Francisco, said.
Net credit losses in the quarter fell 83 percent, to $36 million, partly due to recoveries on foreign loans in Poland and Ecuador, it said.
Noninterest income fell in the quarter, in part because of lower trading income.
"Increasing earnings per share were our most important financial objective for the year," the company's chairman, Richard Rosenberg, said in a statement.
"We believe we are well positioned to benefit from an improving California economy and continuing growth in most of our other domestic and offshore markets," he added.
For the year, net earnings grew 11.4 percent, to $2.18 billion, or $5.36 a share, from $1.95 billion, or $4.79 a share.
BankAmerica shares fell 87.5 cents, to $41.625, in trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.(Reuters)

GRAPHIC: Table: "BANKAMERICA CORP. (BAC,N)" 

Qtr. to Dec 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Net inc.	591,000,000	496,000,000	+19.2	Per shr.	1.41	1.21		Yr net	2,176,000,000	1,954,000,000	+11.4	Per shr.	5.36	4.79		Sh. out.	359,793,000	357,680,000	 	
 
Yesterday's closing price:
 
$41.625
Down 87.5

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (96%); BAC (LSE) (96%); 8648 (TSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (87%); POLAND (54%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANKAMERICA CORP BANK OF AMERICA CORP (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKAMERICA CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%); POLAND (54%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); FOREIGN LENDING (69%); 

PERSON: RICHARD M ROSENBERG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



499 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 21; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Decline For 2d Consecutive Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities declined yesterday for the second consecutive day as expectations increased that the Federal Reserve would soon raise short-term interest rates.
While many analysts and traders have for some time expected the Fed to raise rates for the seventh time since February, the size and the timing of the Fed's next move have been debated. Market participants' opinions change from day to day on each new economic report. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 3/32 , to 9628/32 , for a yield of 7.77 percent, unchanged from Tuesday. Rates on shorter maturities like bills were slightly mixed, with a three-month bill down 2 basis points, to 5.70 percent, and a six-month issue unchanged at 6.15 percent. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
James Hale, a fixed-income analyst for MMS International in San Francisco, a market research and analysis firm, said most of the selling yesterday was in the shorter maturities.
The pressure on prices increased in the late afternoon when the Fed released its periodic survey of conditions in its 12 districts. The report, known as the beige book, said that the economy was vibrant and that price pressures had become more widespread since the last report.
"This almost guarantees that the Fed will tighten credit" after its policy-making committee meets, beginning Jan. 31, Mr. Hale said. Many traders and analysts expect the increase to be 50 basis points, while others predict an increase as large as 75 basis points. Some say the Fed will not act at all.
In early trading, prices of Treasury securities sagged on comments by the vice chairman of the Fed, Alan S. Blinder. Mr. Blinder said in an interview with Reuters that the danger of the economy bubbling over had risen since the last interest rate increase. He played down Mexico as a monetary-policy factor, saying that while Fed officials could not ignore the crisis, they must not sacrifice their chief goal of keeping inflation under control.
Data on November business inventories yesterday had little impact on the Treasury cash market. The Commerce Department reported that inventories rose seven-tenths of 1 percent in November.
The bond market has also largely ignored rising commodity prices. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities rose 1.07 points yesterday, to 236.65, its highest point in three weeks. And crude oil prices have risen by more than $2 a barrel in the last month and a half, Mr. Hale of MMS International said. "While the Treasury market has not been closely following the C.R.B. index, traders should be aware of these rising inflation indicators," he said.
Traders will face a supply of new paper next week. The Treasury announced yesterday that it planned to sell $17.25 billion in new two-year notes on Tuesday and $11 billion in five-year notes on Wednesday.
In when-issued trading late yesterday the new two-year notes were being offered at a price to yield 7.52 percent, and the five-year notes at a price to yield 7.73 percent.
In other trading, the Federal National Mortgage Association, also known as Fannie Mae, priced its first global callable debenture issue.
Underwriters led by Lehman Brothers and Merrill Lynch, priced the $1 billion 10-year callable debenture at par to yield 8.50 percent, or about 80 basis points more than a Treasury note with a comparable maturity.
Rated triple-A by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's, about 65 percent of the issue was sold in the United States with the rest overseas.
In the municipal bond market, prices were up on expectations that fewer bonds would be issued this year. The average yield to maturity in the Bond Buyer index of actively traded 40 municipal issues fell 3 basis points, to 6.75 percent.
The Los Angeles Harbor Department sold $200 million of double-A rated revenue bonds through Bear, Stearns. The series A portion of the financing was priced to yield from a maximum 6.55 percent, with serial bonds yielding from 5 percent in 1996 to 6.35 percent in 2012. For series B, the maximum yield was 6.722 percent, with serials from 5.50 percent in 1999 to 6.60 percent in 2014 and 2015. Underwriters noted that for some investors, interest on the series B bonds might be subject to the Federal alternative minimum tax.
In the corporate market, the AT&T Corporation sold $300 million of 8.35 percent debentures due in 2025 at a price of 98.227 to yield 8.514 percent through Salomon Brothers. Priced to yield about 31 basis points more than the 30-year Treasury, the issue is rated Aa3 by Moody's, AA by S.& P. and AA+ by Duff & Phelps.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since October 1994. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); INFLATION (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); INVENTORIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (72%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT JAMES HALE (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



500 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section C; Page 22; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
A Call to Deregulate Rules and Regulations

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:
THE DEATH OF COMMON SENSE
How Law Is Suffocating America
By Philip K. Howard
202 pages. Random House. $18.
Americans may well take pride in living under what Aristotle called "government by laws, not men," but the situation has lately become ridiculous, writes Philip K. Howard in his exasperated book, "The Death of Common Sense: How Law Is Suffocating America." 
 Because of a campaign in the last three decades to substitute statutes for human judgment, Mr. Howard asserts, all sorts of unintended consequences have occurred. For instance, in 1991 New York City tested a system of coin-operated sidewalk toilets that seemed to work perfectly. But the city was unable to install the system, Mr. Howard writes, because "wheelchairs couldn't fit inside" the toilets, and "New York's anti-discrimination law provides that it is illegal to 'withhold or deny' from the disabled any access to 'public accommodation.' "
And, for instance, most of those charming old farmhouse bed and breakfasts in upstate New York are operated illegally because "most cannot comply with fire codes specifying enclosed fire stairs and other requirements for 'multi-story transient lodging' " that were written with motels in mind. By law, such bed and breakfasts will either have to be rebuilt at a prohibitive expense or face going out of business.
Stories like these abound in "The Death of Common Sense," stories of inflexible rules, of pointless but costly regulations, of bureaucratic paralysis and of conflicting demands for equality. In fact, the repetition of horror stories seems to be the organizing principle of Mr. Howard's tract.
Yet from his many stories he draws lessons of how such a presumed impasse was arrived at. America's desire for a perfect system of laws, he writes, "comes directly out of the Enlightenment," when "the philosophy of rationalism" held "that a natural order in government could be found similar to the order that Isaac Newton thought he had found in nature."
With the New Deal, he continues, "statutes began to dominate the legal landscape, providing job relief, welfare programs and Social Security; agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission were created as part of a broad plan to regulate the economy." Individuals were still important "because they had authority," he adds. "Perhaps the greatest testimony to their accomplishments is that we still remember their names: Ickes, Tugwell, Hopkins, Landis, Corcoran, Cohen, Douglas, Berle, to name a few."
But in the 1950's, he continues, "the abuses of McCarthyism and civil rights violations in the South had led . . . to a heightened distrust of government officials" that developed "overpowering momentum during the counterculture revolution" in the 1960's. Mr. Howard singles out two people for promoting a greater reliance on law: to a minor extent Theodore J. Lowi, who in his book "The End of Liberalism: Policy and the Crisis of Public Authority" (1969), in Mr. Howard's words, "saw greater specificity as the antidote for special interest groups."
And to a major degree he blames Charles A. Reich, the Yale professor who wrote "The Greening of America," for two influential articles that appeared in the Yale Law Journal, "The New Property" (1964) and "Individual Rights and Social Welfare: The Emerging Legal Issues" (1965). These writings redefined individual rights as property requiring the respect of government. "Government should gain no power," Mr. Reich asserted, "by reason of its role as a dispenser of wealth." (124)
In Mr. Howard's view, this was a confusion of power with freedom, and altered what was once considered "rights against law," or in James Madison's words "rights against all government encroachments," to what Isaiah Berlin has defined as the right to anything. More succinctly put, rights were changed from a shield to a sword.
An effect of this change, in the author's view, has been the opposite of what was intended. With so many rights competing, no one has any rights. With too many laws on the books, there is no law. With so many weapons to fight hatred, everyone fights one another and hatred increases. "If there is no flexibility for the regulator, there is no flexibility for us," he points out. "Creating rules without flexibility is just a version of central planning." (180) Or metaphorically, "We fight off rules like branches hitting us in the face, losing any sense of where we are supposed to be going and bleeding from illogical dictates that serve no one's purpose."
How do we get out of these woods? Mr. Howard, a public-affairs advocate and founding partner of the New York law firm of Howard, Darby & Levin in Manhattan, offers no specific program. Only in his endless horror stories is he detailed.
But he makes clear that he believes in an escape from suffocating rules and a return to initiative. Civil servants should be given guidelines, but to get things done they must seize the day. As he perorates: "One basic change in approach will get us going: we should stop looking to law to provide the final answer. Law should articulate goals, award subsidies, allocate presumptions and provide mechanisms for resolving disagreements, but law should almost never provide the final answer. Life is too complex. Our public goals are too complex. . . . Law can't think, and so law must be entrusted to humans and they must take responsibility for their interpretation of it."
In short, what Mr. Howard is trying to do with this thoughtful little book is drive us all sane.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip K. Howard (Charles Nesbit/Random House)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BED & BREAKFAST INNS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); LITERATURE (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (66%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; HOWARD, PHILIP K PHILIP K HOWARD (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



501 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 23; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 191 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Ogilvy to Begin New York (love) Affair

BYLINE: By James Bennet 

 BODY:
The New York State Department of Economic Development said yesterday that it had selected Ogilvy & Mather New York to handle its travel and tourism account, also known as the "I (love) New York" campaign. Billings, subject to legislative review, were estimated at $8 million to $10 million for the state's fiscal year, which runs from April 1 to March 31.
The assignment came after a mandated review in which McCann-Erickson New York, the agency on the account from August 1991 through July 1994, decided not to participate; McCann New York's decision came after the department asked another agency, Anderson & Lembke in New York, to produce two television commercials for the campaign. 
 The review was to have been decided last fall but was delayed for the gubernatorial election; the selection of Ogilvy New York and its subsidiary, O.& M. Dataconsult in Buffalo, was made by Charles A. Gargano, whom Gov. George E. Pataki named commissioner of the department. The other finalists were Bozell New York, Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising in New York and Wells Rich Greene BDDP in New York, which handled the account from 1977 to 1991.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (NYS) NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (58%); WELLS BDDP INC (55%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (55%); NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: OGILVY & MATHER; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (NYS) NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



502 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Needs Help, Not Extortion

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration faces surprising and shortsighted opposition in Congress to its bold plan to rescue the Mexican peso. Critics, both Democrat and Republican, say the plan will leave American taxpayers dangerously exposed if Mexico defaults on its bonds. They want Mexican concessions for American loan guarantees, including sale of the state-owned petroleum monopoly. They would also force adoption of labor reforms that Mexico steadfastly rejected during negotiations over Nafta, the free-trade accord with the U.S. and Canada.
The opponents are wrong. The Clinton plan is ingeniously designed to stabilize the Mexican economy without costing U.S. taxpayers any money. By stabilizing the peso, it would protect U.S. exports and prevent a temporary influx of imports and illegal immigrants. The plan would also stop financial turmoil from spreading elsewhere in Latin America. 
 The peso has plummeted over 30 percent in a month and could collapse if investors, fearing further depreciation or default, dump Mexican bonds and cash in their pesos for dollars. If that happens, import prices in Mexico would soar and possibly bury its fragile market reforms in a torrent of inflation.
The Administration's plan would guarantee up to $40 billion of loans to Mexico -- assuring investors that Mexico would redeem the bonds as promised. As a condition for the guarantees, Mexico would adopt strict monetary and fiscal controls -- to keep inflation and its trade deficit under control -- and pledge to pay back lenders, if needed, with future oil revenues. That safeguards U.S. taxpayers; Washington should actually make money because Mexico will pay fees for the loan guarantees.
The majority leader, Bob Dole, and Speaker Newt Gingrich back the Administration. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York and other opponents of Nafta support guarantees because they recognize that preventing the collapse of a neighbor and major economic partner is important regardless of the merits of open trade or the current Mexican administration.
There is no good case for imposing extraneous conditions on Mexico. President Ernesto Zedillo is under fierce, often unfair attack for weak leadership. With or without loan guarantees, the Mexican economy will be hit hard by the fall of the peso and will need a full-strength President to keep a firm lid on wages and prices -- discipline that is needed to control the growing trade deficit and to stabilize the economy. Why force him to swallow painful political concessions dictated by Washington that would leave him weakened?
Mr. Zedillo might have been tempted to deal with internal opposition the way his party has traditionally maintained control: with political repression and extensive vote fraud. But this week he steered in the opposite direction -- entering an agreement with all major political parties to adopt rules for fair elections and cooperation. Now that Mr. Zedillo has promised to lock in market and democratic reforms, the U.S. has even more reason to help .
The Administration has negotiated reasonable conditions that provide maximum protection for U.S. taxpayers. This is no time for Congress to extort political concessions or raise false alarms about the cost of loan guarantees.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); IMPORT PRICES (74%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); TRENDS (71%); ELECTION FRAUD (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (54%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



503 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 
The enforcement staff for the S.E.C. plans to recommend civil complaints against a number of former top executives with Prudential Securities, including George L. Ball, the former chairman, people with knowledge of the inquiry said. [Page D1.]
 
The parent of American Airlines posted its first profit from operations in five years, but still had a loss for the quarter. [D4.] 

Coram Healthcare is in talks to acquire Caremark International for less than $ 400 million, people close to the talks said. [D4.]
 
Hospitality Franchise will help finance a merger of two small gambling companies with a $ 100 million note. [D4.]
 
Low-fat foods are pushing the envelope: Oscar Mayer has a fat-free line of frankfurters, bologna, chicken and turkey breast. [D4.]
 
Digital Equipment ended a string of quarterly losses, reporting a second-quarter profit that surprised analysts. [D5.]
 
Dickstein Partners offered $ 40 million for Marietta, a supplier of the miniature soaps and shampoos found in hotels. [D5.]
 
Ameritech and U S West showed gains before charges. [D5.]
 
A strike shut down an AC Delco auto parts plant. The strike could disrupt production by the Big Three auto makers. [A16.]
A possible obstacle to Viacom's expected sale of cable systems was shrugged off by Wall Street. [D6.]
 
The Economy
 
National banks will be allowed to sell annuities under a ruling by the Supreme Court. [D1.]Banks are expected to move rapidly to increase their growing share of annuity sales; insurance company agents stand to lose the most from the changes. [D1.]
 
A Federal Reserve survey found vibrant growth through much of the country. Inflationary pressures were also seen. [D2.]
 
Members of frequent-flier plans can sue airlines over retroactive changes in benefits that diminish the value of miles already accumulated, the Supreme Court ruled. [A18.]
 
Orange County announced the sale of all risky securities, leaving the Southern California county with a loss of $ 1.69 billion. [D2.]
 
International
 
The Cornelius Vanderbilt of the new Brazil? Saying there are fortunes to be made building roads, bridges and utilities in Latin America, a rich Brazilian entrepreneur is constructing a private $ 2.5 billion railroad into his country's western region. [D1.]
 
President Clinton pleaded for the Mexican rescue package. [A21.]
 
Markets
 
Stocks ended flat. The S.& P. 500 index slipped 0.34 point. [D12.]
 
Treasury prices sagged. [D21.]
 
The dollar rose. [D22.] Gasoline prices jumped. [D22.]
 
Today's Columns
 
The effects of the Kobe earthquake are likely to be seen at first in the credit markets and in Japan's industrial production. But more important for the Japanese economy may be that the damage is largely uninsured. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
 
Must a shift to a market economy be brutal and wrenching? Three economists argue for a gradual transition to free markets based on the experience of Far East nations. But such strategies would not work in Eastern Europe, where shock therapy may still be the best alternative. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
 
Honda tries to brighten the distinctly unhip image of the mini-van with the colorful cartoon figures of Keith Haring in a new campaign for the Honda Odyssey. Advertising. [D23.]

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 1995, Friday

 CORRECTION:
An entry in the Business Digest referring to the article misstated the scope of the discussions. Coram is negotiating to buy Caremark's home health business, not the entire company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); VIACOM INC (55%); S E C (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: S E C (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MERGERS (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (77%); INSURANCE (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); STRIKES (76%); POULTRY (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); INFLATION (70%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); ANNUITIES (65%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); GAMING (55%); POLLS & SURVEYS (51%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1995



504 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: For '96, Clinton Looks to Ickes, Another Survivor

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Harold M. Ickes has survived some of the bitterest Democratic Party wars of the last quarter-century, but he recently passed a new sort of milestone. With 54 weeks of service, he is now the longest serving deputy chief of staff in the Clinton White House, which has had five of them.
Not that he has had an easy time of it. The three main tasks of his tenure -- legislative stewardship of the President's health care plan, damage control on the Whitewater inquiry and strategy for the midterm elections -- all came unglued, if through no particular fault of his own. 
 But as President Clinton gears up for what is sure to be a difficult re-election campaign, no one is more central than Mr. Ickes (pronounced ICK-eez), the canny and controversial New York labor lawyer who helped him get elected in the first place. He led Mr. Clinton's New York primary campaign, was floor manager of the Democratic Convention and became deputy director of his transition team and now seems all but certain to play a crucial role in 1996, whoever winds up as formal chairman of the re-election campaign.
Mr. Ickes is literally a son of the New Deal -- his father, Harold L. Ickes, "the Old Curmudgeon," was Franklin Delano Roosevelt's Interior Secretary -- and his past mastery of party rules, platform procedure and ballot-access arcana is seen as strong insurance against any threat to Mr. Clinton's renomination.
But those same liberal credentials also make Mr. Ickes a lightning rod for Democratic critics who accuse him of leading Mr. Clinton astray just when the President must win back centrists. And Mr. Ickes' reputation for sharp dealing has led others, especially Republicans, to accuse him of eliding the niceties of etiquette. He dismisses both notions with characteristic plain-spokenness.
"There are people who have political axes to grind, with either me or the President, so they will find any twig they can to hang something on," he said the other day. "If you check around, I think you will find very few people in the White House who think I'm prosecuting a liberal agenda. My job is to give Bill Clinton my judgment of what is best for him and the country."
In a shifting cast of Clinton advisers, Mr. Ickes remains a constant, a longtime friend of both the President and his wife, Hillary, trusted to a rare degree equally by both. Two decades ago, before his marriage to Laura Handman, a fellow lawyer, he lived with Mrs. Clinton's old friend Susan Thomases, the Clinton campaign scheduler. Ms. Thomases says the first couple relies on him because "he has an incredible capacity for work and a wonderful capacity to segregate anything he might want to do from what the President wants and needs to do."
His influence has been clear in a range of recent Presidential actions, from the selection of Senator Christopher J. Dodd as general chairman of the Democratic Party and Don Fowler, a veteran South Carolina party leader as day-to-day chairman, to Mr. Clinton's proposal for a "Middle Class Bill of Rights" of tax breaks. An insomniac, Mr. Ickes is often up by 4:30 A.M., arriving in his cramped office in the West Wing before most anyone else and often leaving at 10 P.M.
Together with Erskine Bowles, the other deputy chief of staff, who handles operations, Mr. Ickes is at the center of the efforts of the President's chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, to impose greater discipline -- and shorter and smaller meetings -- in the face of the inevitable chaos of White House life.
"He's a real lawyer," said George Stephanopoulos, the senior Presidential adviser. "He's meticulous in terms of following through, of pressing points until you've reached consensus or the point of disagreement."
In one sign of the passions Mr. Ickes can provoke, Representative Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey, a contender for the Democratic committee chairmanship who lost out to Mr. Dodd, called a reporter to offer unsolicited criticism.
"Harold is a person of rather decided views, who feels passionately about things and pursues them aggressively," said Mr. Torricelli, who tangled bitterly with Mr. Ickes in 1980, when as head of the Democratic Convention's rules committee he supported Jimmy Carter and Mr. Ickes worked for Senator Edward M. Kennedy. "There are people who are best suited to give you private advice, and others best suited to represent you in public, and Harold is definitely the former.
"No matter what Harold's ideology might be, or whatever vendettas he feels from previous campaigns," Mr. Torricelli added, "his principal agenda should be to broaden the reach of the Clinton White House, and that remains to be done."
Mr. Ickes says that is what he is trying to do. He notes that despite his deep opposition to the death penalty, for example, he never tried to alter Mr. Clinton's support for the Federal crime bill that imposed it for about five dozen new offenses last year. "In a lifetime of politics, you build up a few enemies, if you've done anything of consequence," he said.
In fact, Mr. Ickes took his White House job a year later than originally planned because of a Federal inquiry into whether his law firm acted improperly in representing a mob-connected restaurant workers' union; the inquiry ended with no finding of wrongdoing.
Last year, Mr. Ickes raised eyebrows by joining other senior White House aides in talking to a top Treasury official about the status of a Federal investigation into the failed Arkansas savings and loan at the heart of the Whitewater inquiry. Republicans on the Senate Banking Committee have asked the Whitewater special prosecutor, Kenneth W. Starr, to review Mr. Ickes's testimony to Congress on the subject last summer for possible inconsistencies.
Before joining Mr. Clinton, a friend from their days protesting the Vietnam War, Mr. Ickes was a fox terrier in the service of losing liberal Presidential contenders, from Eugene J. McCarthy to the Rev. Jesse Jackson. It was almost solely on his say-so that some liberal New York politicians, who otherwise looked askance at a pro-death penalty governor from a small state like Arkansas, agreed to back Mr. Clinton in 1992.
But his friends say caricatures of him as a wild-eyed ideologue are vastly overdrawn.
"He's a very practical guy," said Representative Thomas J. Manton of Queens, a moderate Democrat who is also the party's county leader there. "In the primary, he was able to put together an interesting amalgam of left-of-center Democrats with those of us who consider ourselves more mainstream. I think that's his strength."
Mr. Clinton's challenge is to win back the swing voters who helped elect him, without so demoralizing what is left of the Democratic base vote of liberals, labor and minorities that they fail to turn out -- a task Mr. Ickes acknowledges is "very tough" for any Democrat these days, much less a wounded incumbent.
"I've always considered him neither right nor left, but a progressive who wants to do the right thing for the country," Mr. Ickes said of the President. "Now I think his focus on the economy is absolutely crucial, because without a strong economy, liberalism -- or progressivism, or however you define it -- is very hard to sustain."
Asked why he had stayed on in the face of so many vicissitudes, Mr. Ickes said: "Probably my insanity. And presumably, they have confidence in me. They know, and I have always told them, that the minute they cease to have confidence in me, they should tell me, and I'll go."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harold M. Ickes, the canny deputy chief of staff who has survived many bitter political battles, seems certain to play a major role in Bill Clinton's own survival hopes as the President looks ahead at a race for re-election. (David Scull/The New York Times) (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); LAWYERS (70%); LIBERALISM (69%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (69%); MARRIAGE (63%); 

PERSON: ICKES, HAROLD M; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



505 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-13
 
RUSSIANS CLAIM VICTORY
After weeks of bombing, Russian troops smashed the symbol of Chechen resistance and hoisted a Russian flag over the collapsed hulk of the presidential palace in the heart rebel region's capital. A1
 
JAPAN DEATH TOLL PASSES 4,000
The death toll from the huge earthquake that devastated Kobe passed 4,000 as 275,000 homeless people huddled in public buildings and other shelters, their shock giving way to discontent and even despair. A1
 
QUAKE'S IMAGES HAUNT TOKYO
With Japan transfixed by the horrifying images of toppled buildings and raging fires in Kobe, the almost universal question in Tokyo is: What if it had happened here? A12
 
PROTEST IN SOUTHERN MEXICO
Supporters of Mexico's governing party shut down offices and transportation in the state of Tabasco to protest an agreement to hold new state elections. A3
 
Israel plans to limit building by settlers on the West Bank. A2
 
Peru's President takes his wife's hunger strike in stride. A3
 
Nobel laureate Elie Wiesel says he will attend Auschwitz rites. A5
 
Rome Journal: Strife breaks out over 200,000 stray cats. A4
 
National A14-26
 
NAFTA WARS, THE SEQUEL
The President's program to rescue Mexico's economy has reopened trade-agreement battles in a more isolationist Congress. A1
 
CLINTON LOOKS TO SURVIVOR
Harold Ickes, the longest-serving deputy chief of staff in the Clinton White House, will be central to the next Presidential campaign. A1
 
DEMOCRATS PLAY DEFENSE
The Senate's new minority in the blocked the Republicans on one of the first major procedural votes of the new Congress. A1
 
BOOK DEALS AT 20 PACES
Speaker Newt Gingrich defended his book deal by attacking Vice President Al Gore's book on the environment. A24
 
HEARINGS ON PBS CUTS
A House Appropriations subcommittee began hearings on whether to continue the Federal subsidy for public broadcasting. A22
 
A VOW TO RALLY DEMOCRATS
Senator Christopher Dodd, the new Democratic Party leader, vowed that the Democrats would recover from the Nov. 8 elections. A22
 
MARRIED BUT NOT IMMUNE
Puerto Rican women have one of the United States' highest rates of heterosexual H.I.V. transmission and pose a tough challenge. A14
 
N.A.A.C.P. SPLIT GOES TO COURT
Officials with the civil rights group asked a Federal court for an independent audit of the organization's finances in a move intended to weaken the board chairman. A16
 
Law A27
 
People v. Simpson: Johnnie L. Cochran Jr., for the defense.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
COUNCIL BACKS POLICE MONITOR
Defying Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, the City Council voted yesterday to create an independent agency to monitor the police and guard against corruption. A1
 
CAR DEALER'S CHANGING FORTUNES
Though he admitted bilking General Motors out of $436 million and faces hundreds of angry creditors, John McNamara has not spent a day in prison and continues to live comfortably on Long Island. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Weekend C1-30
 
An excursion to lower Manhattan. C1
The Winter Antiques Show goes back to its roots. C1
For Children C25
Theater: On Stage, and Off C2
Film: "Murder in the First." C3
"Germany Year 90 Nine Zero." C8
"S.F.W." C8
"Strawberry and Chocolate." C14
"Bad Company." C21
Dance: At play with the past. C1
Restaurants C22
Photography: Bikers and prisoners. C24
Art: The Brazilian avant-garde. C28
Art in Review C28
An unsung museum. C27
Books: Irving Berlin biography, by his daughter. C30
Television: Home Video D18
 
Sports B9-16
 
Baseball: Orioles owner refuses to field a replacement team. B9
Basketball: This time, Starks leads Knicks over Rockets. B9
Columns: Araton on coaching burnout. B9
Hockey: Messier talks down to the wire. B9
Track: Women pole vaulters. B9
 
Obituaries B7-8
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A28-29
 
Editorials
 
The ugly side of a tax cut.
Cataclysm in Kobe.
Gingrich's halfway measures.
Karl E. Meyer: Prussia.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: "We are on course."
A. M. Rosenthal: The nuclear smugglers.
Ronald I. McKinnon: Flood of dollars, sunken pesos.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle B7
 
Crossword C30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (79%); PERU (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); CITY GOVERNMENT (84%); BOMBINGS (78%); EARTHQUAKES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (76%); MAYORS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CATS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); CORRUPTION (69%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (65%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (65%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); CITIES (62%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (56%); NOBEL PRIZES (52%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (57%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



506 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P.'s North Korea Strategy: Attack Accord, but Don't Kill It

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Republicans in Congress showed their hand today on how they plan to deal with the Administration's agreement to defuse a nuclear crisis with North Korea: attack the agreement without seeking to overturn it.
In the first hearing on the agreement before this Congress, Republicans sought to put the Administration on the defensive by repeatedly attacking the accord for giving away too much to North Korea. 
 At the same time Republican lawmakers, at a hearing of the Senate Energy Committee, stopped short of seeking to scuttle the agreement for fear their party might get blamed if such a move fueled new tensions.
And next week the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will open an examination of the Administration's foreign policy with two days of hearings on the nuclear agreement.
But today, Senator John McCain of Arizona, whom the Republicans have designated as their spokesman on North Korea, was called as the first witness, and he bitterly denounced the agreement for giving the North several years before international inspectors can visit two waste sites believed to hold evidence that it has separated plutonium for use in nuclear weapons.
In the three-month-old agreement, North Korea promised to freeze its nuclear weapons program and dismantle its existing reactors and larger ones under construction. In exchange, the United States pledged to lead an international effort to provide the North with $4 billion worth of new light-water reactors. The waste fuel from the light-water reactors would be far harder to turn into weapons-grade plutonium than the fuel produced by the existing reactors.
Charles B. Curtis, Under Secretary of Energy, defended the agreement by noting that it got North Korea to promise to freeze and later dismantle its nuclear weapons programs as well as its reprocessing program.
Under the agreement, the North would not be given the nuclear components of the first light-water reactor until inspections were carried out. That is not expected to happen for five years.
Mr. Curtis urged the lawmakers to make available $10 million to help store 8,000 spent fuel rods in North Korea and stop their corrosion. The rods are corroding rapidly, he said, and this could make it harder to detect improper diversion of fuel.
Senator McCain faulted the agreement for promising the North $4 billion in new reactors as well as $500 million in fuel oil over the next 10 years. Such outside aid, he said, could prop up North Korea's Communist Government by aiding its economy.
But Mr. McCain, who is a leading Republican voice on national security, said it would be unwise for his party to seek to kill the accord.
"What the Administration has done is put us into a box that is very difficult for us to get out of," he said, "because if we refuse now to fund portions of this agreement, then of course we can be held responsible for the whole thing coming apart."
Senator Frank Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who is chairman of the Energy Committee, also attacked the agreement across the board. But he, too, warned against overturning it. "I do not believe that we should renege on this agreement," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ALASKA REPUBLICAN (68%); SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE ENERGY COMMITTEE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INSPECTIONS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DISARMAMENT (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JOHN MCCAIN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



507 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Companies
 More Bankers Trust clients have had problems with derivatives than the handful of cases that have been made public so far. The company disclosed the problems as it reported fourth-quarter earnings, which fell 63.8 percent from a year earlier. [Page D1.] 
 Ford is cutting production of Windstar mini-vans, raising fears among analysts that the new-vehicle market is softening. [D1.]
 Many Macintosh users are unhappy with a version of Word, Microsoft's word-processing program. The uproar is threatening Microsoft's control in word processing, suggesting to some that the giant softwear company may have become too big to focus on the details of a specific product. [D1.]
 General Electric's earnings fell 48 percent, reflecting a charge of $917 million to dispose of its Kidder, Peabody unit. [D2.]
 A stock offering of the foods unit of RJR Nabisco was priced. Shares in the $1.1 billion offering begin trading today. [D4.]
 Apple Computer posted far-better-than-expected earnings for its first quarter, buoyed by strong holiday season sales. [D4.]
 Bear Stearns said quarterly earnings fell 76 percent as trading and underwriting revenues declined. [D4.]
 Bristol-Myers Squibb set aside an additional $750 million to settle injury claims by women who had silicone breast implants. [D4.]
 Three former I.B.M. employees were charged with stealing more than $20 million worth of mainframe computer parts. [D4.]
 Tele-Communications plans to complete its tender offer for QVC by Feb. 6, possibly forcing a showdown with the F.T.C. [D6.]
 SBC Communications showed strong gains, while the Pacific Telesis Group reported lower quarterly profit. [D17.]
 Several General Motors assembly lines have been shut down by a strike at an auto-parts plant in Flint, Mich. [A14.]
 
International
 Seeking approval for a Mexican rescue package, President Clinton has been forced to confront the ugly truth that economic interdependence is a two-edged sword. News Analysis. [A1.]
 Mexican stocks weakened, and the peso declined as investors worried that a rescue plan proposed by the Clinto Administration might become trapped in Washington political crossfire. [D2.]
 
The Economy
 The United States trade deficit widened by 4.3 percent in November, surprising many economists. Imports rose 2.5 percent. [D2.]
 A proposal to make the loser of a securities fraud lawsuit pay the winner's expenses was at the center of a clash between Democrats and Republicans at a House hearing. [D2.]
 
Markets
 Stocks declined, dragged down by a falling dollar, as the Government reported that the U.S. trade deficit was widening. [D1.]
 Treasury prices were weaker. [D15.]
 The dollar tumbled against the German mark. [D16.]
 Copper and lumber prices jumped as traders predicted strong Japanese demand for rebuilding from the earthquake. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
 Coca-Cola has found that many small shops can sell better than a handful of agency giants. In a shift from the way most corporate giants have sold themselves, the company is emphasizing creative ability and entrepreneurial drive over efficiency and economy. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
 Stocks of fertilizer producers are attracting attention as demand for fertilizer continues to be strong, especially overseas. Terra Industries, IMC Global and Potash are among the stocks gaining a following on Wall Street. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: T (NYSE) (82%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); BMY (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (53%); KO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (56%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (82%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%); KRAFT NABISCO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); PACIFIC TELESIS GROUP INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); COCA-COLA CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (92%); GERMANY (71%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (78%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); MINIVANS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (75%); TENDER OFFERS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (72%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); PERSONAL INJURY (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (67%); APPROVALS (67%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); COPPER MARKETS (64%); LITIGATION (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (60%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (50%); GERMAN MARK (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



508 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: New Democratic Chief Declares That Party Will Recoup

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Despite the "death sentence" handed to the Democrats in the Nov. 8 election, Senator Christopher J. Dodd, the incoming leader of the Democratic National Committee, vowed today that his party would rise again and take on the Republicans.
"The wake is over," he declared.
But Mr. Dodd, a Senator from Connecticut, lamented that Republicans were far more skilled at pressing their agenda and communicating with voters. 
 "We're literally operating in the dark ages, out of shoe boxes, when our counterparts, our political competition, has Apple computers," he said at a breakfast with reporters.
In his most detailed remarks since President Clinton named him general chairman of the party last week, Mr. Dodd said, "This is the most challenging moment for the Democratic Party in my lifetime."
Hours later, at the opening of the Republican National Committee's winter meeting here, it was clear how tough the challenge Mr. Dodd faces will be. His soon-to-be sparring partner, Haley Barbour, chairman of the Republican National Committee, sought to turn the tables on Democrats by accusing the new minority party in Congress of following "a strategy of delay and character assassination."
It is a point that Mr. Barbour no doubt planned to repeat on his party's satellite television program, "Rising Tide," the type of communications that Mr. Dodd suggested his party might want to emulate.
Mr. Dodd spoke almost admiringly of his Republican counterparts and even invoked the late Lee Atwater, the tough-minded Republican chairman who helped engineer President George Bush's victory in 1988. "You've got to tear a chapter out of Lee Atwater's book," Mr. Dodd said, explaining that it could take as long as eight years to rebuild the Democratic Party's field and fund-raising operations.
The incoming party leader offered no such praise for his Democratic predecessors, and instead issued a stern warning to the party.
"What happened on Nov. 8 was profound," he said. "It was not a speed bump. It wasn't some minor mid-course correction. People sent a very strong message that they were angry with how they saw Democrats leading. I think it's important to establish that. And my concern is that there are those who still don't want to come to terms with that fact."
Mr. Dodd asserted that the Democrats had "drifted away from central issues that people cared about," like economic and personal security.
But at another point Mr. Dodd suggested that the repudiation of Democrats was touched off not by a shift on issues but by a failure to communicate President Clinton's accomplishments.
"Part of that result was due to the fact that we did a miserable job as a party in letting people know exactly what had been done," Mr. Dodd said.
For his part, Mr. Barbour depicted Mr. Dodd, who was elected to a third Senate term in 1992, as a liberal who would try to pull the party to the left.
In the first step at regrouping, the Democrats will meet here on Saturday for the official vote on Mr. Dodd as general chairman. The party will also vote on the President's choice of Donald L. Fowler, a former state party chairman from South Carolina, as the chairman. He is expected to concentrate on daily operations while Mr. Dodd serves as the spokesman and chief fund raiser.
While several state Democratic chairmen said last week that they had qualms about the unusual arrangement, Mr. Dodd said the "team effort" would succeed.
"It's awkward, obviously," he said, "but nonetheless I think it's very manageable and doable."
While the Democrats talk about staging a comeback, the Republicans meeting across town will probably, in the words of Mr. Barbour, be "very jubilant."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (57%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC PARTY APPLE INC (57%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS POLITICAL PARTIES (96%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (51%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (51%); 

PERSON: DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); BERKE, RICHARD L CHRISTOPHER DODD (91%); BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HALEY BARBOUR (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



509 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Deluge Leaves California's Wineries Wary but Hopeful

BYLINE: By BILL STAGGS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: OAKVILLE, Calif., Jan. 16

 BODY:
Napa Valley's vineyards, producers of some of California's most prized and pricey wines, came through last week's flooding scarred but intact, with some experts even seeing a positive side to the state's latest natural disaster.
The sight of flooded vineyards had sent shivers through the $1.5 billion California wine industry, which has been staggered by years of recession, a decline in wine consumption and a plant louse called phylloxera that has threatened the health of the vines. 
 But after getting into the fields as the waters subsided, vineyard consultants and other agricultural experts found that while terraced vineyards suffered hundreds of thousands of dollars in damage, major anxiety about flood damage might have been unwarranted. And though they still fret over potential problems from waterborne diseases, these experts know that the vines are now dormant and essentially unaffected by a good soaking.
"So much water in late winter or spring would be a different story," said Paul Skinner, a vineyard consultant. He said "the not-so-obvious effects," like fungus and insects, concerned him, but he also noted that some of the best vintages had come after a winter of heavy rain.
Kim Marcus, news editor of The Wine Spectator magazine, which reports on the wine industry and rates wines, said the droughts that had hit the state were far more worrisome than an excess of water.
"The vines are dormant now anyway, and after several dry years the reservoirs are in sore need of replenishing," he said. "It might just be that there's as much good as bad in this."
While the physical threat from water seems under control, winery tasting rooms and restaurants are suffering.
"The effect of the publicity, not the floods, has been devastating," said Cindy Pawlcyn, executive chef of Mustards Grill in Oakville. "People have canceled their trips. We're doing a third of our normal business. And the people coming in are mostly locals."
Some of the most serious damage to the vineyards appears to be on hillside property along the Napa River on the eastern edge of the northern Napa Valley, home to labels like Groth, Stag's Leap and Caymus, which produce well-regarded cabernet sauvignons. At the same time, California's other premier wine-grape area, Sonoma County, seems to have escaped any serious effects.
Johnny White, manager of vineyards operations for Pina Vineyard Management east of Oakville, said the damage to properties he oversees in the Napa Valley came from the sheer volume of water.
"We had so much water running down the hills so fast that there was nothing we could do until the storm passed," Mr. White said, looking out over some of the 450 acres of mostly cabernet sauvignon vines in his care, many of them on the properties of absentee landlords.
On a bouncing uphill ride in his muddied, four-wheel-drive pickup truck shortly after the worst of the storms last week, Mr. White pointed to slope after slope with newly formed gullies cutting across neat terraces. From a perch more than 800 feet above the valley floor, he also called attention to newly planted vineyards crisscrossed with trenches cut by raging waters.
Mr. White said runoff on the slopes ripped out rock-lined ditches and clogged drains, forcing the torrents to find alternate routes down the hillsides.
What frustrated him most was that his terraced vineyards, like all those carved out here since the late 1980's, were carefully engineered, and their designs had to conform with conservation regulations of the Napa County planning department.
"This is going to be expensive to repair," he said.
A few miles north along the Silverado Trail, which snakes along the eastern edge of the valley, a slash of red-brown dirt against bright green grass showed the kind of havoc the rains brought.
Here crews from Beringer Vineyards, one of the valley's oldest and largest producers, had spent the last six months preparing a hillside site for replanting after it had sat idle for years. They had cut new terraces, lined a creek with fist-sized stones to keep soil from running off the property and planted cover crops.
Their efforts were not enough.
"Water moving downhill underneath just blew out the terraces," said Bob Steinhauer, vice president of vineyard operations for Beringer. "Everything we did there was totally engineered and approved by the erosion control people. What we didn't know was that there were major fissures in the rock and subsoil below."
Al Buckland, president of the Napa Valley Grape Growers Association, put the damage to vineyards at $500,000 to $1 million. He said most of the costs would be from repairing stream banks, clearing debris, rebuilding drainage systems and repairing trellises and drip irrigation systems.
While farmers and experts generally agreed on physical damage in the vineyards, they were less certain about pathogens that might have been transported in the tumult of soil and water.
Mr. Skinner said the damage to the infrastructure was obvious, but he expressed concern about "unseen" dangers.
He said the phylloxera thought to have spread in a 1986 flood was now so pandemic that further movement was not a worry. But he added that he was concerned about diseases like the fan leaf virus, which can debilitate vines over years, and the oak root fungus, which can kill vines outright.
Mr. Skinner advised against panic, though, saying that the spread of those vine diseases was speculative at this point.
"I can't say that there's a connection, but 1986 was a wonderful vintage following a similar flood in February of that year," he said. "I just don't think you can say that there is any direct effect of winter rains on the quality of a vintage."
The Wine Spectator's ratings of California wines score the 1986 Napa chardonnays at 91 on a scale of 100, and the cabernets at 95.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Floods in California last week left this trench in a vineyard along the Silverado Trail in Napa County. (Darcy Padilla for The New York Times)
 
Map shows the location of Oakville, California.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); 

CITY: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; NAPA VALLEY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WEATHER; FLOODS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; WINES WINE (91%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINERIES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (76%); DROUGHT (75%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); 

PERSON: STAGGS, BILL MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



510 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1430 words

HEADLINE: A Korean Coming of Age;
Pan-Asian Superstore in Queens Defies Stereotypes

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
When Syng Man Rhee opened a vast ethnic supermarket in Fairfax, Va., four years ago, 30 greengrocers from miles around closed their doors within 18 months, yielding to the giant whose prices and variety they could not beat.
Now, Mr. Rhee has opened a huge pan-Asian superstore in downtown Flushing, bulging with bok choy and cuttlefish, and hundreds of immigrant merchants here fear that his Korea Town Plaza will force them out of business, too. 
 The brouhaha over Korea Town Plaza, which occupies a 100,000-square-foot former post office in a neighborhood whose Asian population rivals that of Manhattan's Chinatown, marks a moment of reckoning for the Korean community as it comes of age as an immigrant group. Does the success of an individual, many wonder, conflict with the success of the community?
Korean merchants have become synonymous with small business in New York City. They have flourished, despite struggles, partly because they have often pooled their efforts and finances. Now, though, Mr. Rhee is daring to think big and American. And, while some of his compatriots applaud him, others act as if his grand enterprise is an affront to the communal ambitions of Korean immigrants.
"I'm not sure one can criticize this man, because it's the pure principle of capitalism that he applied," said Grace Lyu-Volckhausen, a board member of the Flushing Y.M.C.A. who is an active member of the Korean-American community. "But life is not just making money. The Korean community is very close knit, and you see people getting hurt. Maybe soon there will no longer be a neighborhood that's supportive."
When Korea Town opened its doors on Dec. 3, it was an event. About 3,000 cars crammed with eager shoppers clogged the narrow access roads leading to the store, following the signs that can be seen from a tangle of roadways running past the building. Then they flooded the warehouse, at 39th Avenue and College Point Boulevard.
Inside, the store, about the size of two football fields, is a dramatic departure from the small groceries to which most shoppers are accustomed. The products, including cooking utensils, flatware and gas stoves, are sold at 20 percent to 70 percent discounts. The store sells specialty items from Korea, Japan, China, the Philippines, Thailand and all of East Asia.
The gleaming white shelves brim with glistening plastic bulk packages of paprika, fennel, curry, Japanese buckwheat noodles, dried seaweed, dried straw mushrooms and jars of black bean sauce, soy sauce and sesame oil.
The fruit and vegetable stands hold stacks of choy sum, lotus, taro roots and daikon radishes. Bright pink salmon steaks lie alongside cuttlefish, shrimp and strips of flounder. Live crabs clamber in buckets lined up along the floor.
"Nobody has delivered this type of store to the Asian community," said Mr. Rhee, whose company is based in Maryland and has outlets in China, Korea, Japan and Los Angeles. "Most Asian-owned stores are small. Now, we have a bigger and better store. I don't think I will take business away from smaller stores. I do think everyone here is overreacting."
Shoppers say that Korea Town not only creates jobs but also represents the fulfillment of the community's potential, demonstrating both the business prowess of a single company and the purchasing power of Asian immigrants.
In fact, the small, vibrant commercial district in Little Taipei already attracts shoppers from throughout the metropolitan region, and its grocery stores generate $36 million a year in revenues, according to the Korean-American Small Business Service Center of New York.
Mr. Rhee said he is simply tapping into this consumer strength, pointing out that small-business owners already coexist with two other Asian supermarkets -- Han Yan on Northern Boulevard, and Han Arum on Union Street -- although, he admits, those markets do not begin to rival Korea Town in size.
"The community is very excited because you can buy large quantities and different varieties of food," said Jinn Zohar, who drove to the store from Albertson, L.I., to shop. "It's not a big problem to travel, because I come to Flushing to shop all the time. It's only a 20-minute drive." But for 18 months, the Korean-American Small Business Service Center has waged an incessant, vitriolic campaign against Korea Town on behalf of its 1,500 members. Its target: zoning violations.
The battle lines were first drawn in 1993, when Rhee Brothers announced plans to convert the former post office building at 131-09 39th Avenue into a retail food sales operation. The Buildings Department rejected the company's request for a permit last January because of the sheer size of the proposal. The area's zoning laws prohibit retail establishments of more than 10,000 square feet. Approval was granted in April after the construction plans were revised to meet the zoning requirements for a wholesale market.
But when Korea Town opened, it essentially operated as a giant supermarket, open to all shoppers. Many small business owners were angry.
"If he does not comply with the laws, I'm going to keep yelling," said Sung Soo Kim, president of the Small Business Service Center. "It's a real big shame."
Mr. Rhee created some of the same bitterness in Fairfax, Va., with the opening of Lotte Plaza, a 20,000-square-foot market in a mixed residential and commercial neighborhood.
"It's a very successful business and a big contributor to our sales tax base," said Earl A. Berner, economic development coordinator for Fairfax. "When they first came to the city for permits, some merchants were beside themselves. One woman came in here and cried on my desk, telling me we couldn't allow them to open because she would be forced to close. Today, her company is still open even though she had to make some adjustments."
Myung Kang, 40, said she and her husband were forced to change their stock when the store opened just doors away from their business in Fairfax. Once a greengrocery, the store now sells prepared foods and serves as a catering business, Dong-a-Asian. Thirty stores in surrounding areas simply went out of business, as Mr. Rhee's store began attracting shoppers from 50 miles away.
"I hope the people in New York have better luck," Mrs. Kang said. "He was too big for us to fight. And don't think we didn't try."
In Queens, the small merchants won a partial victory. Ten days ago, New York City's Department of Buildings issued the business a notice of violation and ordered the company to create separate wholesale and retail sections. This will effectively close off a large part of the store to consumers.
Tensions between superstores and small businesses are hardly unique to the Korean community as sprawling, suburban-style stores become increasingly common in New York City, encouraged by the Giuliani administration. The administration has recently proposed that areas long restricted to industrial enterprise be opened to more expansive uses, including enormous retail stores.
Richard Lipsky, the director of Neighborhood Small Business Association in Bellerose, who is fighting the proposal, is using the Korea Town Plaza conflict to that end.
"The catastrophe in Flushing sends a clear message that when you rezone the city to allow these stores to come in, you will get tenants who will alienate the community," Mr. Lipsky said.
In the last decade, Koreans have opened stores of every description in practically every neighborhood in New York City. They first specialized in wig importing, said Pyong Gap Min, an associate professor at Queens College who studies Korean businesses. When the wig business fell off in the 1970's, they moved into wholesale apparel, dry cleaning and the green groceries ubiquitous throughout the city.
Today, there are more than 10,000 Korean-owned stores in the city and the Korean population is 71,225, according to 1990 Census information. Many Koreans, even those with high levels of education or professional training, have started their lives here with small businesses that can flourish despite their owners' limited English. Their children, however, are becoming doctors, lawyers, investment bankers and other professionals, forcing their parents to close their businesses as they grow older.
Ki Young Lee, editor of The Korea Times, a New York City newspaper, said Mr. Rhee may represent the future Korean entrepreneur.
"The children who do not close their parents' business after they retire will make them bigger and bigger," Mr. Lee said. "It is only a natural progression."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many immigrant Korean merchants fear that the new Korea Town Plaza, which sells cooking utensils, flatware and gas stoves, as well as many kinds of Asian foods, will force them out of business. Jinn Zohar, who shopped at the store recently with her 4-year-old daughter, Daphna, said the liked its variety. (Photographs by Chang Lee/The New York Times)
 
Map of Queens showing location of Korea Town superstore. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (65%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: KOREA TOWN PLAZA (NYC) PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: KOREA TOWN PLAZA (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FLUSHING (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%); THAILAND (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (65%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; KOREAN-AMERICANS; SUPERMARKETS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SMALL BUSINESS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); 

PERSON: HOLLOWAY, LYNETTE; RHEE, SYNG MAN

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



511 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Stocks, Following the Dollar, Fall on U.S. Trade Outlook

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market followed the dollar, which tumbled against the German mark, as the Government reported that the United States economy was headed toward the biggest annual trade deficit in seven years.
A big trade deficit leads to a glut of unwanted dollars in the international currency markets, thus depressing prices for both stocks and bonds, which are priced in dollars. 
 "It was a day when people were getting out of the U.S. market as a whole," said David De Rosa, a director of foreign exchange trading at Swiss Bank, referring to dollars, bonds and stocks. The dollar in particular was vulnerable, falling to a 10-week low against the mark and slipping against other leading currencies. [D16.]
The Commerce Department reported yesterday that the trade deficit rose 4.3 percent, to $10.5 billion, in November. [D2.] The trade figures add to a growing list of economic data, including December's industrial production and factory use, that is expected to prompt the Federal Reserve to raise short-term interest rates a seventh time since February at its policy meeting on Jan. 31 to Feb. 1.
Only last Friday, the financial markets rallied, encouraged by the "economy is slowing" message of weak December retail sales and the possibility of no tightening by the Fed. "But the sentiment has changed," said Alex Scarsini, director of foreign exchange trading at Barclays Bank. "People are definitely looking for higher rates."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 46.77 points yesterday, to 3,882.21, its steepest one-day decline since Dec. 8, when it fell 49.79 points. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.76 points, to 466.95. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 3.83 points, to 768.55.
The Dow fell steadily throughout the day, and plummeted more than 50 points by 3:33 P.M., setting off the New York Stock Exchange's "circuit breaker" rules, which are designed to slow high-speed, computer-guided trading.
The Dow has lost about half the 94 points it gained for the month, and the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 7.82 percent from 7.77 percent, taking back about a third of the fall in interest rates for the month.
In the Commerce Department report, the United States trade deficit appeared headed toward a full-year deficit of $152.5 billion, exceeding the record of $152.1 billion in 1987.
The trade figures, which were close to Wall Street's expectations, were simply the first in a series of assaults on the dollar, analysts say. The German mark had been strengthening for weeks against several leading currencies, including those of France and Italy, and only recently began strengthening against the dollar.
In addition, in afternoon trading the dollar fell below 1.52 marks to the dollar -- known as a technical support level -- prompting even more frenzied sales of the dollar, as traders who had made wrong bets scrambled to cut their losses.
The dollar later settled at 1.5160 German marks, down from 1.5344 on Wednesday. It slipped to 99.10yen from 99.57 yen.
The outlook for interest rates led traders to punish even Caterpillar Inc., which yesterday reported fourth-quarter net income of $1.38 a share, beating Wall Street's estimates by 19 cents. If rates rise and the economy slows, Caterpillar, a maker of heavy equipment, is sure to be hurt. Caterpillar fell 3 7/8, to 54 3/4.
By contrast, Intel improved as the computer industry continued to show strength, despite Intel's large quarterly charge for problems with its Pentium chip. Intel, the most active stock of the day, with 9.2 million shares traded, rose 15/16 , to 7011/16 .
Apple Computer, which reported that first-quarter net income had quadrupled, rose 1/4, to 45 7/8.
Compuware, a developer of specialized software, rose 3 1/2, to 42 3/4, after an analyst for the Founders Growth Fund recommended the stock in a stock-picking contest in The Wall Street Journal.
But Fair, Isaac & Company, another developer of specialized software, dropped 5 7/8, to 45 3/4, after it reported first-quarter earnings that were below Wall Street's expectations.
The volume on the New York Stock Exchange was slightly below normal, with about 314.1 million shares changing hands, below the daily average of 318 million shares this year.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BARC (LSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CURRENCY; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES ; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BONDS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); RETAIL SALES (68%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (51%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



512 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: Suspect in Subway Bombing Is Indicted in Earlier Blast

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT 

 BODY:
The man accused of the firebombing last month that injured more than 40 subway riders and terrified hundreds of others was indicted yesterday in that case and charged formally for the first time in an earlier blast that burned two teen-agers.
Edward Leary, a 49-year-old unemployed computer technician from Scotch Plains, N.J., was named in a 39-count indictment by a Manhattan grand jury announced by District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau. The charges are attempted murder, assault, weapons possession and attempted grand larceny. 
 The indictment of Mr. Leary had been expected. Perhaps most significant was the prosecutors' assertion that Mr. Leary was responsible not only for the Dec. 21 firebombing that stunned the city but also for a Dec. 15 subway fire that injured the teen-agers.
Mr. Morgenthau said last night that similarities in the explosive devices -- each fire was linked to a glass jar filled with a flammable liquid, with two wires leading to a battery and a crude timer -- had convinced investigators that Mr. Leary was responsible for both fires.
The indictment announced yesterday supersedes an earlier, sketchy indictment that had been issued in late December to meet a technical requirement that an accused felon be indicted within 144 hours of arrest -- 6 days -- or be released on his own recognizance.
Mr. Leary, who is still hospitalized with the burns he suffered in the Dec. 21 blast, is to be arraigned in State Supreme Court on Feb. 23, Mr. Morgenthau said.
Attempted murder, the most serious charge in the indictment, carries a maximum penalty of 8 1/3 to 25 years in prison. First-degree assault is punishable by 15 years.
Mr. Leary was arrested on the afternoon of Dec. 21 in Brooklyn, where the authorities suspected he fled after his firebomb went off prematurely in his hands. It critically burned him and caused chaos on a crowded train that had just pulled into the Fulton Street station in the financial district.
Mr. Leary almost immediately became the suspect as well in the Dec. 15 incident, in which a teen-age girl's backpack suddenly caught fire on a subway train in Harlem, injuring her and badly burning a 13-year-old boy, whose clothes had caught fire.
Investigators believe that the Harlem fire, like the Dec. 21 blast, was set off when an incendiary device went off prematurely. The boy, Arnell Austin, was hospitalized with third-degree burns over 25 percent of his legs. Kamron Warren, 16, the girl whose backpack was set afire, apparently by a device under her seat, was less seriously injured.
The police concluded after questioning the two teen-agers that they had had nothing to do with the device in the Harlem case. The remains of that device were compared by police bomb experts and the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms with remnants of the firebomb used on Dec. 21.
Investigators have said that evidence found in Mr. Leary's home -- including notes, diagrams and materials they say could have been used to make firebombs -- suggested that he hoped to reap money through extortion after terrorizing the city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; BOMBS AND BOMB PLOTS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SUBWAYS; ASSAULTS INDICTMENTS (91%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); BURN INJURIES (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FELONIES (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (78%); MURDER (78%); ARRESTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); ARSON (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); FIREARMS (75%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (74%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); 

PERSON: STOUT, DAVID; LEARY, EDWARD; MORGENTHAU, ROBERT M (DIST ATTY) EDWARD LEARY (94%); ROBERT M MORGENTHAU (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



513 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: Reopening Old Battles

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19

 BODY:
A month ago the White House was celebrating the first anniversary of what it called one of its greatest legislative and foreign policy successes: the hard-fought passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which President Clinton argued would create tens of thousands of high-paying jobs for American workers producing exports for a vibrant Mexican economy.
Now, battling the new Congress over a plan to rescue Mexico from an economic disaster of that country's own making, Mr. Clinton has been forced to confront the ugly truth that economic interdependence is a two-edged sword. If the Mexican financial system is allowed to collapse, he said earlier this week in a speech with carefully calibrated warnings, the American economy may be taken down with it. 
 And to the horror of many in the White House, what began as a straightforward financial bailout is reopening the trade-agreement battle, this time in a more hostile and more isolationist Congress. Many members in both parties see this as a chance to win concessions from Mexico they could not get in 1993, and a few view it as a prime opportunity to undo the entire accord.
One by one, the trade agreement's opponents have re-emerged in recent days. They argue that the United States would be compounding its first error -- free trade with a country that undercuts American businesses by keeping its wages artificially low and that floods Texas and California with illegal immigrants -- by using taxpayer dollars to rescue Mexico's economy from the ineptitude of its own leaders. The result, they say with an I-told-you-so glance, will be a bailout of rich Mexican and rich American investors who gambled on a miraculous ascent for Mexico and lost.
The truth is more complicated, of course: Mexico would probably be in this fix even if the trade accord was never invented, and while the rich who bought Mexican bonds would be bailed out, so would many decidedly middle-class Americans who have learned in the past year through a panoply of international mutual funds that an emerging market is frequently not a rising one.
But on Capitol Hill, where liberal Democrats who did not like what the trade agreement did to labor are again teaming up with conservative Republicans, the only relevant political fact is that the cornerstone of Mr. Clinton's international economic strategy has gone bad for the first time. That creates an opportunity to embarrass him badly.
Efforts by everyone from Vice President Al Gore to the Republican leaders to separate partisan emotion from economics have so far failed to generate the votes needed to pass the $40 billion in loan guarantees, which would cost American taxpayers only if Mexico defaulted.
"It's weird," one of Mr. Clinton's closest economic advisers said when asked to compare the debate over the trade accord in 1993 with the arguments over the loan guarantees today. "The issues are different, the arguments are different, but the reverberations are very similar."
The risk is that a battle in Congress, which now looks inevitable, may be all it takes to further rattle investors who have already pulled billions of dollars out of Mexico, leaving the Government there without the cash to pay off its short-term borrowings. That, in turn, could send the peso into a further downward spiral -- it has already declined 35 percent in a month -- and could raise the specter of a return to inflation and social unrest. Along the way, it could create enough chaos to wash out many of the benefits reaped from the reforms Mexico enacted in return for the free-trade agreement.
Mr. Clinton, trying to walk the fine line between raising the alarm and creating a panic, warned, "If we fail to act, the crisis of confidence in Mexico's economy could spread to other emerging countries in Latin America and in Asia, the kinds of markets that buy our goods and services today and that will buy far more of them in the future."
Mr. Clinton's problem is that while the trade agreement was sold with a positive message -- more trade equals more jobs -- the Mexican rescue is being sold with a negative and potentially dire one. Until this month, he could describe free trade in Latin America or Asia as a win-win deal, in which more open markets led to more sales of American exports. Now, he is like the banker who has discovered that a big client is on the verge of bankruptcy. He has no choice but to lend him a bit more because the danger of losing everything is too terrible to contemplate.
"In for a dime," said one senator who opposed the agreement but favors the bailout, "in for 40 billion."
While Mr. Clinton's argument about helping Americans by helping others is fundamentally sound, it also plays into the hands of opponents of the trade accord. They argued a year ago that while economic integration with rapidly developing nations may offer new opportunities for export, it also subjects the American economy to a raft of risks, many out of Washington's control.
In the North American Free Trade Agreement debate, Mr. Clinton overcame those objections, stitching together an unusual alliance of Republicans, historically the party of free trade, and Democrats whose arms he could twist. It is unclear whether he can do that again.
Some Democrats who reluctantly voted for the trade accord say they cannot put $40 billion of taxpayer money at risk to save it. And many freshmen Republicans are openly splitting with the party's traditional line. Eleven sent a letter yesterday to Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia, reminding him that bailing out foreign powers is not part of the House Republicans' "Contract With America."
"These freshmen are economic nationalists," said Patrick J. Buchanan, the conservative commentator and former Presidential candidate who seems positively gleeful that his predictions of disaster with Mexico are coming true (though in far different form than he predicted). "They don't burn incense at the alter of free trade."
Mr. Buchanan today called Mr. Gingrich and the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, "reflexive patriots" for backing the principle of a Mexican bailout at a meeting at the White House a week ago. Others, trying to win concessions from Mexico that they lost when the original accord was debated, are demanding that Mexico agree to everything from ending its trade relations with Cuba to increasing wages as productivity rises. That has a nice popular ring because it would help Mexican workers, who would create a big market for American goods if they rose into the middle class, but it would probably touch off inflation as well, the last thing Mexico can now risk.
So once again, Mr. Clinton will be forced to turn to his opponents for help. Today, he got some from his biggest one-time rival, former President George Bush. Mr. Bush, now a resident of Houston, where illegal immigration could skyrocket if the peso drops further, urged: "The measure proposed by the Administration should be considered in the Congress on its financial merits. The Congress should not attach extraneous political considerations to this legislation."
Mr. Bush concluded with a reference to Ross Perot: "There is no 'sucking sound' of jobs moving out of the United States."
Mr. Clinton's problem over the next week, of course, is to find a way to explain to Americans that their bigger fear should be a sucking sound of another kind, one of money pouring out of Mexico and leaving the United States' biggest neighbor down and out.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; TEXAS; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (97%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS ; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ANNIVERSARIES (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CURRENCIES (77%); REFUGEES (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); TRENDS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); CONSERVATISM (65%); MUTUAL FUNDS (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) ; SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



514 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Ford's Move Raises Fears Of Slowdown

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 19

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company said today that it would not make any of its Windstar mini-vans next week, citing a drop in dealers' orders.
The production cutback for the Windstar, which is less than a year old and has been one of Ford's most popular products, fanned fears among auto industry analysts that the market for new vehicles may be softening as interest rates climb. 
 Ford's move followed a cutback in the production of its small cars, and a decision by the Chrysler Corporation to postpone plans to increase the production of its small cars.
But Ford said it had seen no slowing of sales for the mini-van, or in the market generally. The auto maker attributed the drop in orders to the effect of rising interest rates on dealers, not buyers.
Higher interest rates raise the cost to dealers of carrying large inventories, because they pay interest on the vehicles, which they buy wholesale from the auto makers.
Wall Street analysts disputed Ford's view, noting that inventory figures suggested that dealers were already carrying more mini-vans and small cars than they could sell. That, the analysts said, explains the reason Ford has also offered incentives of $500 to customers who will lease Windstars.
"This has been such a strong market for so long, and suddenly we've hit a wall," said Jack Kirnan, auto analyst for Salomon Brothers in New York. "There's clearly been a slowing."
Mr. Kirnan cited as evidence the high inventories of small cars, mini-vans and luxury cars. According to Ward's Automotive Reports, Ford dealers had 98 days of inventory of Windstars at the end of December, compared with 89 days at the end of November.
Similarly, Dodge dealers had 98 days of Caravan mini-vans at the end of December, compared with 88 days the previous month. Chrysler has been offering rebates on its mini-vans for months as it prepares to introduce a redesigned mini-van later this year.
Mr. Kirnan said the inventories were excessive, even though stocks generally accumulated during the winter, when buyers tended to stay away from showrooms.
The news of Ford's cutback on the Windstar came after trading had closed on the New York Stock Exchange. Throughout the day, the stocks of the Big Three auto makers were heavily traded on fears that the Federal Reserve would be inclined to raise short-term interest rates this month.
On the New York Stock Exchange, shares of Ford fell 75 cents, to $27.50; shares of Chrysler fell 87.5 cents, to $49.25, and shares of the General Motors Corporation rose 25 cents, to $40.25.
Ford previously announced a one-week cut in production of the Ford Escort and Mercury Tracer models. This week Chrysler postponed plans to add a third shift of workers at its plant in Belvidere, Ill., where Neon subcompacts are made.
Ford said orders for mini-vans dropped in December, after the Fed's last increase in interest rates in November. Sales of the mini-vans in December were as strong as those in November, Ford said.
But the seasonally adjusted pace of industrywide sales for light trucks, which includes mini-van sales, slowed last month from November's level.
Dealers are now paying an interest rate of about 9.5 percent to finance their stocks. If they pay $15,000 wholesale for a car, that means they can expect interest charges of $240, assuming the car sits on the lot for two months, said Joel Pitcoff, market analysis manager for Ford. That is $85 more than they would have paid a year ago, he said.
Further, Mr. Pitcoff said, dealers, like others who watch the Fed, are anticipating more increases in rates.
The one-week cut in Windstar production will eliminate 6,000 Windstars. The 3,300 workers who make the mini-vans at the Ford plant in Oakville, Ontario, will stay home. Under the terms of their labor contract, the workers will draw 95 percent of their net pay.
The cutback in the production of small cars amounts to 9,400 cars: 5,900 Escorts that would have been made at an assembly plant in Wayne, Mich., and 3,500 Escorts and Tracers that would have been made at a plant in Hermosillo, Mexico.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (60%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; VANS; PRODUCTION; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RENTING AND LEASING; SALES MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (85%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INVENTORIES (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (74%); LUXURY GOODS (71%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES DAVID FORD (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



515 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Fed Move To Increase Rates Seen

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Comments from three Federal Reserve governors yesterday convinced traders and analysts that the Fed would raise interest rates after its policy meeting at the end of the month.
While another increase in short-term interest rates has been anticipated, weaker-than-expected retail sales figures last Friday raised questions in the minds of many market participants about the size and the timing of the next Fed move. 
 But the vice chairman of the Fed, Alan S. Blinder, suggested yesterday that the Fed would increase interest rates in two weeks. In an interview with Bloomberg Business News, Mr. Blinder said, "The risks of overheating are greater than the risk of recession."
The comments echoed ones made by Mr. Blinder on Wednesday, which helped send Treasury prices lower.
Yesterday, the price of the 30-year bond declined 17/32 , to 9610/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, rose to 7.82 percent, from 7.77 percent on Wednesday. Shorter bills' rates were only slightly mixed.
Treasury prices were weighed down by a weak dollar and a report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia showing inflation accelerating this month.
Theodore Ake, a senior vice president and government trading manager at Kemper Securities Inc. in Chicago, said, "The one factor having the most impact on the long end of the market was the dollar's weakeness, as it broke through a couple of key technical levels." The dollar tumbled to a three-month low against the German mark.
Traders said the market sank in afternoon trading as the higher-than-expected price components of the Philadelphia Fed index raised the prospect of further interest rate increases beyond the Fed's next monetary policy meeting on Jan. 31.
The Philadelphia Fed index, a survey of regional business activity, dropped to 10.4 in January from 26.5, but the prices index rebounded to 55 from 44.1 and prices received also rose to 24.4 from 19.0. Economists said this was in line with general market perceptions of a slight moderation in economic growth. But continued price pressures at the intermediate goods level are threatening to spill into final goods, they said.
Market analysts said the prices paid index rose to 55.0, its highest level in six years. The combination of a moderating pace of growth and pickup in price pressures, they added, reinforced market perceptions that the Fed will tighten on Feb. 1 and also that the economy will slow as the year progresses.
And to raise investor concern up a notch or two yesterday, were comments by few Fed officials that left the market bracing itself for another round of rate increases by the Fed. "The market is anticipating the central bank to raise interest rates a least once over the next few months," Mr. Ake said.
A Fed governor, John P. LaWare, said yesterday that while he did reassure bond investors that economic growth was slow, it was difficult to say whether the Fed was near the end of a cycle of raising rates.
One trader said that it was not encouraging when a Fed governor says he is surprised by the strength of the fourth-quarter gross domestic product. Mr. LaWare was in New York to deliver a speech on the banking industry to economists and financial journalists.
And in an interview with Dow Jones's Capital Markets Report yesterday, traders said another Fed governor, Susan M. Phillips, did not sound surpemely confident that the fight to keep inflation was finished. She said that it is "at least feasible" that inflation remained contained, but that it would be difficult to keep consumer prices below 3 percent.
In the municipal market, prices were stagnant for a second consecutive day after rising for weeks. Traders report that investors are running into sticker shock, with demand tempered by the higher prices.
Hawaii yesterday priced $268 million of its general obligation bonds through Merrill Lynch. The double-A rated issue was priced to yield from 5.25 percent for a bond due 1998 to 6.30 percent in 2015.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (74%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (74%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RETAIL SALES (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); GERMAN MARK (64%); 

PERSON: BLINDER, ALAN S; LAWARE, JOHN P; PHILLIPS, SUSAN M; HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN S BLINDER (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



516 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Widened in November

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
Despite continued vigorous export growth, the nation's trade deficit widened in November, the Government reported yesterday, and is well on the way to reaching record levels for all of 1994.
During the month, the deficit on goods and services rose by 4.3 percent from October, the Commerce Department said, to $10.53 billion from a revised $10.10 billion. 
Since consensus forecasts had been projecting a drop in the deficit, the report came as a surprise and probably contributed to a sharp decline in the dollar against the German mark. Before the release of the figures, economists had been forecasting that the November deficit would shrink to around $9.6 billion.
The dollar's decline last year against currencies like the mark and the Japanese yen may help ease the trade deficit in 1995, analysts said. But economic growth in the United States last year, and the resulting demand for imports, superseded any dampening effect that high-priced goods may have had on consumers.
"This is symptomatic of a country that is growing faster than its trading partners," said Paul Mastroddi, a managing director at J. P. Morgan & Company.
In a separate report that nevertheless suggests the economy remains strong, the Labor Department said yesterday that the number of Americans filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits dropped by a sharp 31,000 last week, to 323,000, the lowest figure in three weeks.
Analysts said the numbers might well reflect continued vigorous job growth. But they cautioned against reading too much into the number, since the period included the holiday marking the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Jobless claims are often extremely erratic during holiday periods.
In November, imports of goods and services rose by 2.5 percent, to a record $71.69 billion. The increase reflected a higher bill for foreign oil and more imports of autos. It is the seventh straight month that imports have hit a new high.
Exports registered strong growth as well, though not as much as imports. Helped by a big jump in the sale of commercial aircraft, exports rose 2.2 percent, to a record $61.16 billion.
The November numbers put the deficit on track to exceed the record $152.1 billion trade shortfall set in 1987.
Although persistent trade deficits require either inflows of foreign capital to finance them or a steadily depreciating currency to bring them back into balance, analysts said that in a $6 trillion economy the shortfall was not that worrisome.
"A $150 billion deficit is a drop in the bucket," said Edward Yardeni, chief economist at C. J. Lawrence. "If we don't want a trade deficit, then let's have a recession."
Still, the November figures show the continuation of some disturbing trends.
Despite continued dollar weakness against the Japanese yen, America's trade deficit with Japan was $6.19 billion in November. That number is nearly 7 percent lower than October's deficit, but is still the third- highest deficit on record for any country. Through November, the trade gap with Japan is running at an annual rate of $65.6 billion, far ahead of the 1993 record of $59.1 billion.
The effect of the drop in the dollar against the yen should begin to narrow that deficit somewhat this year analysts said, assuming growth in the United States slows and that Japan, whose economy has been stagnant for much of the last three years, can quickly overcome the effects of this week's devastating earthquake and begin growing again.
"I think Japanese growth will begin to kick in during the second half of the year," said C. Michael Aho, senior international economist at Prudential Securities.
In addition to the Japanese, the United States also ran substantial November deficits with China and Mexico.
The deficit with China was $2.89 billion in November, putting the deficit for the year at a record annual rate of $30 billion.
The size of the Mexican deficit -- $378 million -- was not as much of a worry as was the fact that it was four times higher than the October figure, and the strong likelihood that because of the 35 percent decline in the value of the peso it will widen much further in 1995.
"The Mexican situation will clearly hurt us in 1995 and perhaps in 1996," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington research organization. "But despite the earthquake, I think Japan will cut the other way. There, I think the rebuilding program will stimulate the economy by two to three percentage points higher than what it might have been."
Given the combined effects of an expected slowing in the American economy, the dollar's decline and continued good growth abroad, Mr. Bergsten said he expected the trade deficit to narrow by $20 billion to $25 billion this year.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Balance of Trade" shows amount of imports and exports from June '93-Nov. '94. (Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); GERMAN MARK (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



517 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
CATERPILLAR INC. (CAT,N)

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Caterpillar Inc. said yesterday that its fourth-quarter earnings more than doubled on strong domestic and foreign demand, exceeding analysts' expectations.
Investors, though, are apparently worried about the impact of rising inventories and higher interest rates on future profits. The company's shares fell $3.875, closing at $54.75, on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 Caterpillar, the heavy-equipment maker based in Peoria, Ill., reported net income of $279 million, or $1.38 a share, compared with $119 million, or 58 cents a share, in the corresponding period a year earlier.
The latest earnings exceeded a mean estimate of $1.19 a share by 19 analysts polled by Zacks Investment Research.
Sales jumped 24 percent, to $3.9 billion, driven by a 28 percent increase in exports to almost $2 billion.
Caterpillar said United States dealer inventories "rose significantly" and "were slightly above normal relative to current selling rates" at year-end. The company also warned that domestic demand could slow if the Federal Reserve increased interest rates again.
"Higher interest rates, lower housing starts and a lower pace of replacement demand are likely to result in a U.S. industry near 1994 levels," the company said.

GRAPHIC: Table: "CATERPILLAR INC. (CAT,N)"

Qtr. to Dec 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	3,928,000,000	3,168,000,000	+24.0	Net inc.	279,000,000	b119,000,000	+135	Sh. earn	1.38	.58	 	Yr rev.	14,328,000,000	11,615,000,000	+23.4	Net inc.	955,000,000	b652,000,000	+46.5	Sh. earn	4.70	3.21	 	
 
b-After an extraordinary charge of $29 million, or 15 cents a share, on loss from early extinguishment of debt, in the quarter and year.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$54.75
Down $3.875

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (96%); CATR (PAR) (96%); CAT (SWX) (96%); CAT (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (96%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); 

CITY: PEORIA, IL, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC CATERPILLAR INC (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CATERPILLAR INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); PEORIA, IL, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



518 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 412 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls Against Mark In Wake of Wider Trade Gap

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar fell sharply against the German mark yesterday after a report showed that the United States trade deficit was still widening
The trade gap in goods and services increased 4.3 percent, to $10.531 billion, in November, as merchandise imports set a record high for the seventh consecutive month. The deficit means foreign exporters have a wealth of dollars to sell for their own currencies when they bring revenue home. 
 Steady in Asian and European trading, the dollar lost 1.5 percent of its value against the mark in a little more than three hours as traders unloaded the currency.
"The trade numbers reminded people that we have to find $10 billion a month to come in here," said Richard Koss, manager of currency sales at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in New York.
The dollar's fall against the mark was accelerated by technical factors, dealers said. The mark was also bolstered by an announcement by the Bundesbank that it was leaving short-term interest rates unchanged, as expected. The German central bank has kept interest rates steady since the summer.
The dollar fell to 1.5112 marks yesterday, its lowest level since Nov. 9, before recovering in New York trading to 1.5160 marks, down from 1.5344 marks on Wednesday. The dollar also fell to 1.2725 Swiss francs, from 1.2910 francs on Wednesday. The British pound rose to $1.5868 from $1.5700.
The dollar did not fall as far against the yen because many traders were still concerned that the devastating earthquake in Japan would disrupt commerce in the country.
"You couldn't convince me to buy the yen now, and the earthquake is a major factor," said Jack Griffin, currency sales manager at Fuji Bank in New York. He and other market participants said they were concerned that the earthquake would hurt Japan's economy, at least in coming weeks.
In New York trading, the dollar fell to 99.10 yen, from 99.57 yen on Wednesday.
Still, the dollar received some support from growing expectations that the Federal Reserve would raise short-term interest rates after its policy-making committee meets at the end of the month.
In other currency trading, the Canadian dollar continued to slide, falling to 70.14 United States cents, its lowest level in almost nine years. The Canadian dollar later recovered to 70.22 United States cents, down from 70.423 cents on Wednesday.
The Canadian dollar has fallen more than 2 percent against the United States dollar in the last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CM (TSX) (83%); CM (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BRITISH POUND (71%); EARTHQUAKES (69%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



519 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: The Ugly Side of a Tax Cut

 BODY:
Lieut. Gov. Betsy McCaughey of New York has tried to give a responsible answer to an irresponsible question. Gov. George Pataki asked her to propose ways to cut $1.2 billion from the state Medicaid -- the program that provides health coverage to the poor. The target was not, however, dictated by a desire to improve Medicaid, but rather by the need to pay for Mr. Pataki's tax cuts.
Ms. McCaughey answered the best way she could. But lopping off 20 percent of the programs would be ugly. Some New York City hospitals, already driven to the edge by state regulations, would close. The New York City region would be hit hard because it would give up the largest share of Medicaid reimbursements for the sake of honoring Mr. Pataki's tax cuts. And the proposals would reduce the quality of care for the poor. 
 The plan would cut more than $1 billion out of the $6.4 billion state share of Medicaid. Because the state pays about one-third of the costs, total Medicaid spending would fall by about $3.5 billion. The reductions would hit almost everyone -- including hospitals, physicians, nursing homes and home-bound care. To her credit, Ms. McCaughey carefully targeted the economies to spare pain. Children were exempted. And many of the specific cuts -- for example, in private-duty nursing and clinical psychology -- can be justified because they would cause relatively little grief and help New York State trim coverage that is now fabulously expensive.
But the entire package would do harm. Hospitals hit with budget cuts would have to take the only recourse possible -- eliminating services. The plan arbitrarily caps home-care services, but removes money to make room in nursing homes or hospitals to pick up the slack.
Several proposals could backfire. The plan would, for example, eliminate annual fee hikes for hospitals that offset inflation, and soften the blow by permitting the hospitals to charge private patients more than Medicaid patients. But a dual pricing structure would give hospitals strong incentive to cater to private patients and slight the poor. The poor could also be harmed by the proposal to steer Medicaid patients into health maintenance organizations. H.M.O.'s can provide quality care cheaply, but the plan in effect sets their premiums so low that such care might become impossible.
If Ms. McCaughey had simply tried to strip Medicaid of waste, she might have started by shedding non-emergency benefits and steering patients into managed care. But then the plan would need to let competition, not an arbitrarily imposed cost cap, wring out the excess while preserving quality; and she would not have met Mr. Pataki's need to pay for his tax cut. Ms. McCaughey's proposals are frightening. Under Mr. Pataki's political orders, they could not be otherwise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE CANAL CORP (85%); NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (85%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (85%); MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICAID; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES MEDICAID (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); NURSING HOMES (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (61%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); MCCAUGHEY, ELIZABETH C (LT GOV) EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



520 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: Cataclysm in Kobe

 BODY:
Could a Kobe-scale disaster happen here? By the latest count more than 4,000 people are dead, 21,000 injured and 275,000 homeless. More than 30,000 buildings have been damaged or destroyed and property losses are about $50 billion. Indeed it could. Earthquakes, which strike without warning, can inflict enormous destruction anywhere.
Each full point on the logarithmic Richter scale represents a tenfold increase in energy released. Last year's Los Angeles quake measured 6.8. The Kobe quake, at 7.2, was more than twice as powerful. Seismologists say that a 7.5-magnitude quake, many times more powerful than Japan's, is a realistic possibility for the Los Angeles area. 
 An earthquake's destructiveness depends not just on the energy it releases but on other factors like the type and depth of the earth's movement, the direction of the shock wave and the type of rock or soil it passes through. More controllable are reinforcement and flexibility standards for buildings, roads and bridges in earthquake zones.
Such structures can be made earthquake-resistant, but never fully earthquake-proof. Past a certain threshold highway overpasses will buckle, bridges will crack, buildings tumble, underground utility lines burst and explode.
Japan's current construction standards are comparable to those used in earthquake-prone areas of the U.S. But these apply only to buildings built after 1971. It is still too early to determine how well Kobe's newer buildings withstood Tuesday's shock. But any lessons learned there will need to be applied here as well.
Kobe is the main port of the Kansai, one of Japan's two main urban industrial regions. It is closely linked to the nearby metropolis of Osaka and the architectural treasures of Kyoto and Nara. All felt the quake, but the destruction was concentrated in Kobe, a city of 1.4 million.
What happens economically when one of the world's top industrial powers has its No. 2 port shattered? No one really knows. Forecasters say the destruction could be more than balanced by the stimulus of new construction. Japan is emerging from a long recession and could use a boost. The likely rise in domestic demand should reduce Japan's internationally unpopular trade surpluses.
Japan has most of the resources it needs to recover from this disaster. But the offers of help from around the globe, including the U.S., are important. They express the compassion that unites us all in our vulnerability to such cataclysms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: OSAKA, JAPAN (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; KOBE (JAPAN); JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); KINKI, JAPAN (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (71%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; EDITORIALS EARTHQUAKES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (67%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



521 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 208 words

HEADLINE: Why Russia Worries About NATO Expansion;
Its Time Has Passed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Fred C. Ikle presents a strong case against expanding the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Op-Ed, Jan. 11). But his arguments for maintaining the alliance warrant scrutiny. 
 The United States joined NATO in 1949 to strengthen Western Europe against internal disorder and to lessen its fear of an independent West Germany. However, NATO, like the Warsaw Pact, ended by increasing tension and fueling the arms race, as it developed into a mammoth military structure to deter Soviet attack.
That attack, we now realize, was never likely. The Soviets had neither the intention nor the capability of taking over the West by force. As it turns out, NATO and the Warsaw Pact were about image and bluff.
During the cold war the United States spent $5 trillion to defend Western Europe. Today we are still spending about $112 billion a year.
The European NATO members, with 400 million people and a combined gross national product greater than that of the United States, can afford to defend themselves, since there is no enemy in sight. If NATO is to be maintained, a budget-conscious American public must know why.
 
JUDITH PAPACHRISTOU
Professor of History
Sarah Lawrence College
Bronxville, N.Y., Jan. 12, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) WESTERN EUROPE (71%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); WESTERN EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMS RACE (78%); COLD WAR (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); HISTORY (68%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: PAPACHRISTOU, JUDITH

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



522 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Dispute on Loan Guarantees Hurts Mexican Stocks

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 19

 BODY:
Mexican financial markets deteriorated today for a third straight day as investors worried about a huge package of American loan guarantees that has been caught in a political crossfire in the United States.
The Mexican stock exchange lost 4.83 percent, closing at 2,051.9. In the last three days since the United States Congress started wrangling in earnest over the loan-guarantee package for Mexico, the stock market here has lost 191 points, about 8.5 percent of its value. Since the peso was devalued a month ago, the stock index has lost more than one-third of its value in dollar terms. 
 The peso weakened about 4 percent today, ending at 5.52 to the dollar here and 5.505 in late New York trading. In the last month, the peso has lost 37 percent of its value against the dollar.
Uncertainty in Mexico was further increased by revived reports that the American Federal Reserve would increase interest rates at the end of the month and thereby drain more investor money from Mexico.
Finance Minister Guillermo Ortiz has said that the rise in American interest rates in 1994 was one of the reasons that international investors began to sour on Mexico, pulling their money out and putting it into safer investments in the United States.
Investors today were also concerned about political demonstrations in a southern state, Tabasco, that were set in motion by a report that the governor would be replaced, and by changes in the management of this country's giant phone company, Telefonos de Mexico.
The loan guarantees from the United States are crucial to Mexico's plans to recover from its financial crisis. This country has more than $ 30 billion in short-term Government bonds coming due this year. The peso devaluation shattered many investors' confidence, and if the bondholders withdraw their money instead of rolling it over, Mexico would not have enough in reserves to pay what it owes.
President Clinton's offer of $ 40 billion in loan guarantees has helped reduce investors' fears about those obligations. But the United States Congress must vote on the package, and some members have said that they will not approve it unless Mexico pays high fees and accepts severe conditions.
"The Mexican market is so jittery that it is reacting to practically anything," said Joyce Chang, an emerging-markets analyst with Salomon Brothers in New York. "The principal fear of the market now is not that the package will be scuttled, but that killer amendments will be attached to the bill."
Ms. Chang estimated that if just some of the proposed fees were enforced, Mexico could have to pay as much as $ 5 billion to obtain the loan guarantees.
But Government officials here are confident that the package will be passed in Washington by the end of next week. "Mexico has the leverage right now," said an official who asked not to be identified. "Do you think that to save a couple of percentage points on the loan, the United States would be willing to risk damaging financial markets all over the world?"
Concern about Telefonos de Mexico was set off when Juan Antonio Perez Simon, the company's general director, was replaced on Wednesday night by Jaime Chico Pardo, an executive known as more decisive and freewheeling.
Telmex accounts for more than a quarter of Mexico's total stock market capitalization and its American depository receipts are heavily traded on the New York Stock Exchange. Telmex shares in New York dropped $ 1.75 today, closing at $ 34.50.
Mr. Chico Pardo, 45, was director general of Condumex, a company within Grupo Carso, a diverse conglomerate that exercises a controlling stake in Telmex. He is a close adviser to Carlos Slim Helu, head of Grupo Carso and one of Mexico's wealthiest men.
"The impression is that Perez Simon was not as quick or as flexible a manager as Telmex needs now," said Andrew J. Friedman, a telecommunications analyst at the Vector brokerage firm here. "They brought in somebody who could roll with the punches more."
Since the devaluation, Telmex stock has been downgraded by J. P. Morgan and other firms. The company faces huge peso losses and in the next two years will have previously unknown competition in local and long-distance telephone service.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 1995, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about worries in the Mexican financial markets over a United States aid package misstated the percentage change of the peso against the dollar on Thursday. The peso fell 1.8 percent against the dollar, not 4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TELMEX (BMV) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; ; UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CREDIT; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEVALUATION (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1995



523 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: 69 Democrats Ready to Back Budgeting Bill

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Democrats said today that 69 of them in the House would support a balanced-budget amendment when it came to a vote next week, all but assuring that the measure will pass a chamber of Congress for only the second time in seven tries.
Representative Charles W. Stenholm, Democrat of Texas, said the Democrats had lined up behind his version of the amendment, which requires a balanced budget no sooner than the year 2002 and prohibits tax increases without the approval of a majority of all the 435 members of the House and the 100 senators. 
 That announcement clouds the prospects of a rival proposal, backed by Speaker Newt Gingrich and others, that is a centerpiece of the House Republicans' "Contract With America." Their version would require three-fifths of the House and Senate members to approve future tax increases, a ratio that is intended to tilt any Federal deficit reduction strategies away from finding more revenue and toward cutting spending.
The balanced-budget battle dominated an otherwise sleepy day in which the full House and the Senate were absorbed in the minutiae of another "Contract With America" item, legislation that would free states and cities from the burden of paying to enforce Federal legal and regulatory orders.
Mr. Gingrich and other Republican leaders in Congress have mounted a vigorous campaign for their proposal this week. Their allies kept it up in a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee today, insisting that any balanced-budget measure that does not rein in the Government's appetite for money will effectively be toothless.
Virtually all Republicans support some form of a balanced-budget amendment, and the vast majority support Mr. Gingrich's version. But moderate Republicans and the Democrats led by Mr. Stenholm hold the balance of power, because two-thirds of the House -- 290 members, if everyone votes -- must approve a Constitutional amendment. And there are but 230 Republicans.
That means no amendment can pass without the support of at least 60 Democrats, and probably more, and Mr. Stenholm appears to be the only politician who can now deliver them. If the House does pass a balanced-budget amendment, it would be only the second time since 1982, when the Senate approved a similar measure. That measure died in the House.
In a letter to the Speaker that Mr. Stenholm and 65 other Democrats signed, the Texas Congressman said his version of the budget amendment had the "strong bipartisan support" essential if any proposal was to make it through Congress.
But Mr. Gingrich was not conceding that today. "We are going all out on our side of the aisle," he said at a news conference, adding that at least 220 of the 230 Republicans in the House would vote for what he called the "tax limitation" form of the amendment. But he added, "The weakness is on the Democratic side."
Experts in both parties say that only about 40 Democrats favor the three-fifths ratio in the Republican version , which is being sponsored in the House by Representative Joe L. Barton of Texas and in the Senate by Rod Grams of Minnesota, both Republicans.
But Republican support is not unanimous. In the House, Mr. Stenholm is joined Representative Dan Schaefer, Republican of Colorado Republican. And in the Senate, an identical version of the Stenholm amendment has Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, as a sponsor; it was approved this week by the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Those two versions are the principal rivals in the amendment battle, but hardly the only contenders. Mr. Gingrich said today that lawmakers had come up so far with 37 alternatives to the amendment as specified in the "Contract With America." The House Rules Committee will meet on Monday to decide how and when to conduct the debate and vote on a balanced-budget amendment.
As Mr. Stenholm pressed his case in the House, advocates of the Contract version held a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee in a Senate office building to make theirs.
In a first for Congressional hearings, the economic panel watched and heard Milton Friedman, who won the Nobel Prize in economics in 1976, testify via television, from Stanford University in California, that a budget amendment that failed to discourage tax increases would not work.
Mr. Friedman's argument was similar to that of others at the hearing: the Government's income usually averages about 19 percent of the nation's gross domestic product, even if taxes are raised, because businesses and individuals change their behavior to keep their tax bills from rising. But, he said, the Government's penchant for spending has ballooned to about 24 percent of the gross domestic product in the last 15 years, and continues to rise.
If an amendment continues to make it easy for Congress to raise taxes, Mr. Friedman and others argued, Congress will do so. But that tactic will not ease the deficit, and will only feed a Federal bureaucracy that, the Nobel economist said, acts mostly as a wet blanket on economic growth.
There were dissenters. Lawrence Chimerine, managing director of the Economic Strategy Institute, said he agreed that deficit spending was "putting a huge burden on future generations that should have been stopped a long time ago, and better stop soon."
But Mr. Chimerine maintained that a budget amendment was no solution. Rather, he argued, an amendment will prove ineffective because huge swatches of the budget, including military spending and Social Security, have been deemed immune to budget cutting. And the remainder of the Federal budget, he said, cannot absorb the $1.2 trillion to $1.6 trillion in reductions needed to erase the deficit by the year 2002.
"You can't legislate or repeal the laws of arithmetic," he said.
Mr. Chimerine also warned that such steep spending cuts, spread over a relatively short time, could damage the economy and worsen a recession.
While the amendment continued, the Senate and the House were also debating a bill to make it harder for Congress to impose requirements on cities and states without providing money to pay for them. By wide margins, the House defeated two efforts by Democrats to weaken the bill.
While many Democrats say they support the general goal of removing burdensome "unfunded mandates" from cities and states, they contend that the current measure would go too far in reducing Federal environmental, safety and labor standards.
In both houses of Congress, Democrats have delayed a final vote by offering numerous amendments, but the bill is considered almost certain to pass eventually.
In the House, Democrats have drafted many amendments, each of them meant to exempt one kind of law or another from the restrictions in the new legislation, which would not flatly prohibit unfunded mandates but would erect procedural barriers to imposing new ones.
In consecutive votes today, the House first rejected the idea of exempting future laws governing water pollution from the effects of the bill, and then rejected a proposal to exempt any law intended to protect the public from unhealthy pollution coming across state lines.
There were no votes in the Senate during the debate today. Late Thursday night, after fending off a Republican effort to cut off debate, the Democrats finally agreed to limit to no more than 62 the number of amendments to be offered when the debate continues next week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a first for Congressional hearings, a witness testified yesterday via television. From California, the Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman addressed a hearing of the Joint Economic Committee. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COLORADO REPUBLICAN (73%); SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSTITUTIONS; TAXATION BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (67%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, MILTON; STENHOLM, CHARLES W (REPR); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); WINES, MICHAEL NEWT GINGRICH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



524 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Striking Auto-Parts Workers Tentatively Settle With G.M.

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 20

 BODY:
A three-day strike at a crucial General Motors Corporation parts complex was tentatively settled late this evening, but not before it had idled more than 32,000 workers in the company's assembly system and halted lines that make popular and profitable vehicles like the Chevrolet Suburban and the GMC Sierra pickup truck.
Officials of the United Automobile Workers union at the parts plant in Flint, Mich., said they would release no details of the agreement until a ratification vote of the local's 6,600 members scheduled for 1 P.M on Sunday. But they said that before the vote they would put 300 people back to work to begin shipping parts to prevent more assembly plants from closing. If the agreement is ratified, parts workers could be back at their posts as soon as Monday. 
 At least nine assembly plants and one assembly line in a 10th plant had shut down in the United States and Canada by this evening because of the strike. Those plants may not reopen, and others may still close, because it will take time for newly made parts to reach them.
The Flint factories, which normally operate round the clock, produce dozens of parts, including spark plugs and oil pumps. The union struck the complex on Wednesday, saying that G.M. had violated the terms of a three-year agreement signed last February. The company had promised to hire 500 workers over the life of the contract but had hired none, the union said. The union had also demanded that G.M. give the complex more parts to manufacture to keep new hires employed.
Under the union contract, G.M. does not pay workers whose plant is closed because of a strike, even if those workers are not striking. Such workers may be eligible for state unemployment payments. The union pays strike benefits of $150 a week only to workers out on strike.
G.M. has been trying to lower its costs by contracting with outside suppliers to produce parts. The company contends that those suppliers can make parts cheaper because U.A.W. wages and benefits of $42 per hour are more than twice what the suppliers pay their workers. At the same time, the company has resisted hiring more workers to keep pace with demand, instead scheduling record amounts of overtime.
For these reasons, the union has struck G.M. plants six times in the past year, selecting plants whose loss would damage the company the most.
G.M. has been slashing the inventories of parts it maintains at assembly plants, to adopt a Japanese manufacturing technique known as just-in-time delivery. That means a strike at a parts complex like the one in Flint snuffs production throughout the system within days.
A three-day strike at a parts plant in Anderson, Ind., last August ultimately shut down 13 assembly plants. G.M. settled that strike by promising to bring other parts-making work to the plant.
The plants that had closed because of the strike in Flint include the Buick City complex there, where workers struck in September in a successful effort to force G.M. to hire more people. Together, the strikes in Anderson and at Buick City cost the company 40,000 sales and $150 million in the third quarter of 1994, and an undisclosed amount in the fourth quarter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: MTLQ (PAR) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (56%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (75%); 

CITY: FLINT, MI, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%); INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS (UAW); GENERAL MOTORS CORP INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLINT (MICH); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (56%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (75%); FLINT, MI, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; STRIKES; LABOR; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS STRIKES (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); OVERTIME (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



525 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Affirms Plan to Stop Money for Unwed Mothers

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Congress heard widely differing opinions today about whether welfare payments encourage unmarried teen-agers to have babies, and whether Republican proposals to curtail such assistance would reverse the rise in births outside marriage.
Despite the conflicting testimony, Republican members of the House Ways and Means Committee affirmed their desire to pass legislation cutting off cash assistance to unmarried women under 18 whose children are born out of wedlock. 
 Representative Dave Camp, Republican of Michigan, declared that "illegitimacy is a social catastrophe." He said the Federal Government should no longer provide a comprehensive package of benefits to young men and women who "violate social convention by having children they cannot support."
William J. Bennett, the former Education Secretary, said: "Welfare may not cause illegitimacy, but it does make it economically viable. It sustains it and subsidizes it. And what you subsidize, you get more of."
More than two-thirds of black babies and more than one-fifth of white babies are born to unmarried women.
The depths of political disagreement on this issue were shown in the use of language. Democrats and child-welfare advocates generally avoided the term "illegitimacy."
"It places a stigma on the child," said Deborah V. Weinstein, a policy analyst at the Children's Defense Fund. "All children are legitimate in the eyes of God." Conservatives, on the other hand, used the term freely. They said they wanted to reimpose the social stigma associated with childbearing outside marriage.
Experts of all political persuasions expressed skepticism about the Government's ability to alter adolescent sexual behavior by manipulating financial incentives.
Rebecca M. Blank, a professor of economics at Northwestern University, said, "There is little relationship between welfare payment levels and rising problems of out-of-wedlock births."
"It is hard to understand how the recent rapid increase in unwed motherhood can be fueled by public assistance payments," Ms. Blank testified, because the purchasing power of such payments has declined in the last two decades.
James Q. Wilson, a professor of management and public policy at the University of California at Los Angeles, said out-of-wedlock births had been rising in many countries for three decades. "Throughout the world," he said, "we have seen a fundamental shift in attitude toward the importance of marital commitment. It is not a peculiar defect in the United States."
In response to questions, Mr. Wilson said, "I don't believe that taking welfare benefits away from children would cause the problem to go away." But he said common sense would suggest that "if people cannot get more money for having more children, they are less likely to have more kids."
A bill introduced by House Republicans, as part of their "Contract With America," stipulates that states may not increase cash assistance when mothers on welfare have additional children. States now generally make larger payments to larger families.
Mr. Wilson said the Federal Government should encourage "radical experimentation among the states," because it does not know enough to set "one national rule that fits all the states." He said states should experiment with programs that send public money to family shelters, maternity homes and private charities.
Mr. Bennett said that some states should try cutting off welfare payments for unmarried teen-age mothers. "You would actually see fewer children born out of wedlock," he said. "You would see less misery, and you could break the cycle" of poverty.
Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Florida Republican who presided over the hearing as chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources, said Republicans intended to revise their original welfare bill to add provisions cracking down on fathers who failed to pay child support.
Representative Marge Roukema, Republican of New Jersey, said she and other women in the House wanted to establish criminal penalties for parents who willfully disobeyed court orders for the payment of child support. In addition, she said, states could withhold drivers' licenses or professional licenses from such parents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS FLORIDA REPUBLICAN (80%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (55%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (55%); CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ILLEGITIMACY INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); WOMEN (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); 

PERSON: BENNETT, WILLIAM J; PEAR, ROBERT DAVE CAMP (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



526 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
In Baseball, No Games, But the Game Is Expanding

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Jan. 20

 BODY:
Acting uncharacteristically but with necessity, baseball's expansion committee unanimously recommended today that the major leagues expand by four teams, two in "an expeditious manner" and two "in a reasonable amount of time thereafter."
The owners are expected to act so expeditiously that they will very likely approve the initial stage of the two-tiered expansion by mid-February. They may even award the first two franchises by then; if not, by the end of the month at the latest. 
 St. Petersburg-Tampa and Phoenix are virtually certain to be sites for the majors' 29th and 30th teams, beginning play either in 1997 or 1998.
In making its recommendation to the ruling executive council, the expansion committee departed from the position officials and owners had always held: that they would not act on expansion until they had a new labor agreement with the players.
But suddenly the committee has one or two compelling reasons to make the decision now. One is the April 1 deadline Phoenix faces for the implementation of a quarter-cent tax that would fund a new $275 million stadium. The tax won't go into effect unless the city is granted a franchise by then.
The other reason is the fight the owners face in Congress to hold onto their longtime exemption from the antitrust laws. Aside from the feeling that has grown generally in Congress to repeal at least part of the exemption, lawmakers from Florida and Arizona are poised to push a repeal bill because they are concerned with the economic disaster their states face without a legitimate spring training.
John Harrington of the Boston Red Sox, chairman of the expansion committee, met last week with Senator Connie Mack, Republican of Florida and a proponent of repeal, and Harrington just might have told Mack what was coming.
The executive council has to act on the committee's recommendation before passing it on to the full ownership, but Bud Selig, the council chairman, said in a statement, "Expansion continues to be on a fast track."
Harrington said the committee "believes that baseball will be well served by expansion."
The owners especially will be well served, because they are expected to extract an expansion fee in the $150 million neighborhood from each of the two new teams. The price will very probably be higher when the 31st and 32d teams are added. One of those could come from northern Virginia and another from Orlando, Fla., the other two sites under consideration. By the time the second tier of expansion is considered, though, other cities could step forward and join the competition.
Donald Fehr, the players' labor leader in the strike, welcomed the announcement.
"Obviously, we've been in favor of expansion a long time," he said by telephone from New York. "We've been trying to talk to them about expansion for about a year. We feel the more people playing baseball and the more people watching baseball, when there is baseball, the better off baseball will be."
People in the Tampa Bay area were cautiously ecstatic about the news. Seven previous times they anticipated getting a team, but their batting average remains .000. Before they had them in their clutches, they lost the Twins, the Athletics, the Rangers, the White Sox, the Mariners, the Giants and a National League expansion team.
Vincent Naimoli, a Tampa industrialist who heads the local group that would own a new franchise, said he was gratified at the prospect of bringing a team here, but he was a bit cautious himself.
"This is just one more step in the long process and hopefully we'll see the end of the road in a very short time," he said.
Jerry Colangelo, on the other hand, abandoned all caution. Colangelo, who operates the Phoenix Suns of the National Basketball Association, has worked for more than a year to put a major league baseball team in Arizona.
"Obviously, I'm very pleased," Colangelo said by telephone from Phoenix, "because in my opinion this was the major hurdle, and that was to respond to the question: Will baseball expand without a collective bargaining agreement? I think that question was answered today. The next step is to award the franchises to cities, and I feel very confident that Phoenix along with Tampa will be the two."
The new Phoenix stadium would not be ready until 1998, but Colangelo said if the new teams were to begin play in 1997, one of two spring training sites, either Phoenix Municipal Stadium or the new stadium in suburban Peoria, Ariz., could be expanded and used for one season.
 
Tryouts for the Mets
The Mets announced yesterday that they would conduct tryouts for replacement players in California, Florida and Texas, beginning next weekend.
The tryouts are open to those who have played professional baseball within the last five years. The sessions will be held next Saturday at Long Beach State and Brookhaven Community College in Dallas, and on Feb. 1 at the Mets' spring training complex in Port St. Lucie, Fla.
Players must bring their own spikes and gloves. Further information can be obtained by calling the Mets at (800) 685-8589.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PHOENIX SUNS (89%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX SUNS (89%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; MAJOR LEAGUES BASEBALL (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (65%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY CONNIE MACK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



527 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Eases Trade Limits on North Korea for First Time Since 1950

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
For the first time since imposing an embargo against North Korea in 1950, the United States eased trade restrictions today, announcing that it would allow direct telephone calls between the two nations and permit travelers to use credit cards there.
The announcement came as the Administration, under heavy attack from Republicans for its nuclear agreement with North Korea, is moving carefully to improve relations with the North in the hope of building trust and insuring that North Korea continues to fulfill its promise to freeze its nuclear program. 
 An Administration official said, "We consider this to be a very important diplomatic tool for insuring North Korea's continuing cooperation and implementation" of the agreement signed in October, in which the North vowed to freeze and ultimately dismantle its nuclear program.
As part of its relaxation of the embargo, the Administration also announced that it would allow American news organizations to open offices in North Korea and permit North Korean journalists to open bureaus in the United States.
And in a small easing of its embargo on goods, the Administration said it would permit imports of one of the few North Korean products for which there is a large American demand: magnesite, a mineral that steelmakers use to line their blast furnaces.
North Korea announced two weeks ago that it would end its embargo on American goods and permit phone calls and financial transactions with the United States.
Administration officials also acknowledged that the relaxation of restrictions announced today was modest, but said that the prospect of further relaxation should serve as a powerful incentive for North Korea to abide by the nuclear agreement.
In that accord, the United States promised to head an international consortium that would provide North Korea with $4 billion worth of light-water atomic reactors and fuel oil. The spent fuel those reactors produce is far harder to transform into weapons-grade plutonium than the fuel produced by North Korea's existing reactors.
Under the October agreement, the United States and North Korea pledged to ease restrictions on telecommunications and financial transactions by Jan. 21.
The easing announced today was consistent with the approach the United States has used with other Communist countries over the past decade -- opening up trade and concentrating on increasing the flow of information and ideas. The thinking is that the inflow of Western ideas will increase support for democracy and free markets.
"The intention is to promote the exchange of information and openness," an Administration official said.
The State Department said further relaxation of economic sanctions "will depend on further verified progress on the nuclear issue as well as progress in other areas of concern."
Those areas, Administration officials said, include North Korean restraint in exporting missile technology.
The announcement came a day after Republican lawmakers hammered the Administration at a Senate hearing for, as they put it, helping to prop up North Korea's dictatorship by providing it with $4 billion in energy aid.
Reacting to the Administration move, Senator Frank Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who heads the Senate Subcommittee on East Asia, said in an interview, "I'm critical that they've been moving as rapidly as they are" in relaxing the restrictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EMBARGOES; CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (66%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



528 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Mehdi Bazargan, Former Iran Premier, Dies

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: NICOSIA, Cyprus, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Mehdi Bazargan, Iran's first Prime Minister after the Islamic revolution of 1979, died today in Switzerland, said the official Iranian news agency, monitored here. He was in his late 80's.
He died of heart failure at a hospital in Zurich after collapsing at the city's airport, said Iran's Ambassador to Switzerland, Mohammed Riza Alborzi. He was headed with his wife and son-in-law from his home in Teheran to the United States for heart surgery, the envoy said. 
 Mr. Bazargan was a campaigner for democracy and human rights during the rule of the Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi, who was toppled in the Islamic revolution. In February 1979, Mr. Bazargan was appointed by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini to head the provisional government that replaced the ousted monarchy.
As head of that lame-duck government, Mr. Bazargan appealed for calm and reason amid the revolutionary fervor that culminated in the takeover of the American Embassy in Teheran in November 1979.
He resigned when Ayatollah Khomeini endorsed the embassy siege, in which 52 Americans remained hostages until January 1981.
Mr. Bazargan went from being one of the staunchest supporters of Ayatollah Khomeini and of the revolution he led to one of his harshest critics. He served in Parliament until 1984 as a lawmaker of the Iran Freedom Movement, which he had founded in 1961. The group functioned as the only legal opposition group after the revolution, though its members were often harassed or beaten by Government supporters. The Iranian Government finally outlawed the movement in 1990.
It survived as a spinoff, the Society for the Defense of Freedom, until September 1991, when eight of the society's members or sympathizers, including some former Government ministers, were imprisoned after secret trials for treason.
At a time when the country's new ruling clerics were propounding a form of "revolutionary justice" in which thousands were summarily executed, Mr. Bazargan appealed for moderation.
In a speech at Teheran University before his resignation in November 1979, he said: "Don't expect me to act in the manner of Khomeini, who, head down, moves ahead like a bulldozer crushing rocks, roots and stones in his path. I am a delicate passenger car and must ride on a smooth, asphalted road."
The son of a merchant, Mr. Bazargan was born in 1907 in Azerbaijan, though the exact date and details are not known. He studied engineering for six years at the University of Paris in the 1930's and earned a degree in thermodynamics.
He returned home in 1942 to teach at Teheran University, where he became known as one of Iran's best mathematicians and was awarded the chair of thermodynamics at the university's Technical College.
All the while, he was becoming increasingly disenchanted by Government policies. By the 1950's he had achieved enough prominence in the opposition to be asked to serve in the Government of Dr. Mohammed Mossadegh, a nationalist foe of the young Shah.
When Prime Minister Mossadegh stripped the British-owned Anglo-Iranian Oil Company of its monopoly on oil production and nationalized the industry in 1951, he sent Mr. Bazargan to head the company's operations.
After Mr. Mossadegh was ousted in a Western-backed coup in 1953, Mr. Bazargan plunged into a campaign to overthrow the Shah, whom he accused of violating human rights. He was jailed several times, including a five-year term beginning in 1962, and gained a following among diverse groups who resented the Shah's rule.
This also aligned him with Iran's exiled religious leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, who assigned him to direct an oil industry strike in 1978 that weakened the main pillar of Iran's economy. With support for his Islamic campaign sweeping the country, the Ayatollah returned in triumph in early 1979 and appointed a 17-member Cabinet.
But as head of that short-lived provisional Government, Mr. Bazargan was constantly frustrated by "revolutionary committees" and by clerical pronouncements that clashed with his Cabinet's policies. "They have put a knife in my hand, but it is a knife with only a handle. Others are holding the blade," he said in describing his Government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mehdi Bazargan (United Press International, 1979)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: ZURICH (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

COMPANY: TEHERAN UNIVERSITY (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEHERAN UNIVERSITY (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CYPRUS (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); ZURICH, SWITZERLAND (92%); ZURICH (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); RELIGION (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); HEART DISEASE (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (67%); TREASON (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); HUMAN RIGHTS (55%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); 

PERSON: BAZARGAN, MEHDI AYATOLLAH RUHOLLAH KHOMEINI (92%); MOHAMMED RIZA PAHLEVI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



529 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: To Help a City in Crisis

 BODY:
Warnings of deep trouble for the New York City budget took on a sharper edge this week when the Standard & Poor's rating agency put the city on a "credit watch." The trigger was Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's plan to pay $120 million of this year's debt service costs with newly borrowed money, in effect postponing the final payout to another day.
As a rule, borrowing just to get out of a tight budget squeeze is not a good idea; S.&P. is properly concerned that the city not slip into bad habits. However, borrowing seems justified this time. The Mayor says he is doing it to avoid disruptive midterm cuts for schools -- commendable restraint on his part. The school system has agreed to absorb deeper budget cuts next year. Moreover, city officials say this borrowing will cost less in the long run than the debt it replaces, because it has a shorter term at lower interest. 
 What the city really needs, though, is fewer narrow escapes and more real relief from its constant state of crisis. It needs a serious plan to end the chronic imbalance between revenues and expenses. Extended over several years, that plan could include borrowing, like the plan that lifted the city out of crisis in the 1970's.
Standard & Poor's is particularly nervous about New York because it rates the city higher than other agencies do. The Mayor in turn does not want the rating lowered because, embarrassment aside, a lower rating would mean higher interest rates on money the city borrows. But a downgrading seems unlikely as long as Mr. Giuliani works as hard and as effectively to tame the budget as he has so far. Except for his overprotection of the police and firefighting budgets, he is clearly trying.
There is still, however, a gap of at least $650 million to eliminate before the fiscal year ends on June 30. Why does that gap keep reopening every time City Hall claims to have closed it? Because each fix is precarious. The big problem this year has been the city's weak economy, especially Wall Street -- and, therefore, weak tax collections. But another problem is political weakness. Too often the Mayor and the Council swear they have put a tighter cap on spending than turns out to be the case, or that the city's income will rise faster than it actually does.
The budget would be in better shape if it had been cut more in June, but there was heavy constituent pressure on Council members to do less. Later, after a showdown with the Council, the Mayor had to cut $1 billion more, and now, with less than half the fiscal year left, an additional $650 million or more must go. The borrowing will fill part of the new hole; direct spending cuts will do the rest.
Budget uncertainties are further compounded by the new Republican majorities in Congress and the new Republican Governor of New York State. The threat of reduced Federal and state aid makes it all the more urgent that the Mayor, the Council, labor unions, business leaders and Albany pull together on a serious plan to end the city's constant and debilitating fiscal crisis. A special borrowing can help now, but it is not a permanent solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S INC STANDARD&POOR'S (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



530 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Japanese-Owned Company Plays by U.S. Rules;
Selling Our Cars There

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman in "Japan Fatigue" (column, Jan. 11) unfortunately echoes the Ford Motor Company's economically indefensible argument that its 1 percent share of Japan's car market proves that market is somehow "managed." By that token so too is the United States car market. 
 But there are at least 10 companies -- including BMW, Mercedes, Volkswagen and Subaru -- that have about 1 percent or less of this market. BMW, Mercedes and Volkswagen have the same percentage of Japan's market.
Imports have played a rapidly increasing role in the competitive Japanese market for the last decade. In 1987 they took less than 1 percent of the Japanese car market. In December 1994 they reached 12 percent.
Car imports now account for 19 percent of the United States market, down from 31 percent in 1987. Interestingly, imports in Japan take as much as 27 percent of the large-car segment, where the Big Three choose to sell their cars. Detroit has yet to offer products in the small-car segment, which represents the bulk of Japanese passenger-car sales.
To catch up with their international competitors, the Big Three are looking to Washington for numerical targets and other managed trade policies.
 
WILLIAM C. DUNCAN
General Director, Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association
Washington, Jan. 16, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: DUNCAN, WILLIAM C THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1995



531 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Gather for News of Quake;
At Bookstore in Rockefeller Center, Lists of Victims Are Posted

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
Asami Sakamoto stood in the lobby of Kinokuniya Book Store in Manhattan, her nose inches away from sheets of white paper posted on a glass wall. Among the thousands of Japanese names, packed single-spaced onto eight pages, she searched for those of old friends in Kobe.
 Like Ms. Sakamoto, many of New York's Japanese residents have traveled every day since Tuesday to this Rockefeller Center bookstore. With telephone lines still down in Kobe, they have no option but to make personal visits to these ever-lengthening lists of those who died in Monday's earthquake. 
 Like the tens of thousands of survivors who lined up for emergency rations in Kobe, scores of Japanese students, artists and business executives stood patiently and quietly on line at Kinokuniya -- although employees said one young woman read down the lists and broke into tears.
 "Kinokuniya has played a peculiar role in the earthquake," said Setsuko Inaki, 33, a reporter for Nippon Television Network, which has its New York bureau in Rockefeller Center. "It has become a public gathering place."
 Indeed, Kinokuniya, more than any other spot, has drawn together the fragmented Japanese population in the New York area. For unlike other newcomers to New York, who have carved out city neighborhoods for themselves, the Japanese are scattered throughout the city and its suburbs, and have no natural center to their expatriate world. Kinokuniya at Rockefeller Center is the New York branch of a bookstore chain in Japan.
 In part, the Japanese have no natural gathering place, because, unlike many other foreign-born residents of New York, the Japanese here are not really immigrants. Most are not here to stay, but to study or work or escape what some see as the restrictions of Japanese society. And so they feel the sting of a disaster in their homeland particularly keenly because they have not severed their ties to it at all.
 For the first 24 hours following the earthquake, Kenzo Minami, 20, could neither sleep nor leave his apartment in Chelsea, he said. He could not reach his parents and younger brother who live in Nishinomiya, a city near Kobe that was one of the most devastated areas.
 To keep from panicking, Mr. Minami, a student at Parsons School of Design, began planning a new life for himself without his family. He imagined himself settling in Europe, where he has friends, because the pain of returning to Japan would be overwhelming.
 "Finally, my mother called to say everyone was fine," said Mr. Minami, who spent Wednesday at Kinokuniya's coffee bar, watching Japanese news broadcasts on their TV. "My younger brother woke up when a bookcase almost fell on his head, but a desk stopped its fall. It's strange. I felt I should have been with them. I felt I should have shared with them, as a family, the fear."
 There are about 54,000 Japanese nationals living in the New York area, according to the Japanese consulate. Most are business executives and their families, stationed here by such businesses as the Sakura Bank, the Mitsukoshi department store and Kobe Steel U.S.A. Many live in Scarsdale and Hartsdale in Westchester, in Greenwich, Conn., and in Fort Lee, N.J.
 Company assignments to New York vary in length, but most Japanese executives know their stay is temporary. So, many seek to re-create a Japanese life style in the suburbs of New York. Parents shop in Japanese grocery stores and get hair-cuts at Japanese hairdressers. Children take weekend classes at Japanese cram schools so as not to fall behind in their studies. Some teen-agers avoid American schools altogether and attend Keio High School, which opened in Purchase in 1990.
 Japanese students and artists, on the other hand, have chosen to immerse themselves in American ways. They have built something of a community on East Ninth Street on the Lower East Side. Many nominally came here to study English, but really came seeking a degree of social and economic freedom they could not find in Japan -- especially young women whose career prospects were made dimmer by the recession in their home country.
 Unlike these Japanese visitors, immigrants from Japan first arrived in the United States a century ago, searching for jobs and better lives. But restrictive immigration laws in the 1920's and later the outbreak of World War II, cut off new immigration. By the time the anti-immigration laws were repealed in the mid 1960's, Japan was becoming an economic superpower, and there were no economic forces pushing the Japanese to emigrate.
 The temporary Japanese community began growing here in the 1980's during Japan's economic boom, creating a Japanese presence that was new to the region Although economic difficulties often increase emigration from many nations, Japan's prolonged recession has actually decreased the the number of Japanese living in the New York area , as companies cut the number of executives stationed here.
 It is perhaps a measure of the earthquake's reach that it moved not only Japanese nationals, but many of this area's Japanese-Americans, who number about 10,000.
 All week, the Japanese American Association of New York in midtown Manhattan has bustled with twice as many regular visitors, both Japanese and Japanese-Americans who came to talk about the earthquake.
 Michiyo Noda, the office manager, said donations were made unsolicited, in person and over by telephone. Many were from nisei, or second-generation, Japanese-Americans -- often elderly women.
 Dr. Seiichi Shimomura, the association's vice president, said, "The nisei consider themselves pure Americans. Many of them don't even speak Japanese. Still, there are emotional ties to Japan."
 Dr. Shimomura, 73, a retired cardiologist, was born in Seattle but grew up in Japan. He spent his sixth-grade year in Kobe, where he had relatives with whom he has now lost touch. A few days ago, he recognized his elementary school, Sumayama, when a television report showed it in ruins.
 Like hundreds of others at the bookstore, as well as at the Japanese Consulate and at some Japanese restaurants where other lists of the dead were posted, Dr. Shimomura scanned for a familiar name.
 "I saw one Shimomura, age 5, in Kobe," he said. "So I wondered. But that's not an uncommon name."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Kinokuniya bookstore in Rockerfeller Center, lists of those killed in the Kobe earthquake are posted on a glass wall. Many Japanese residents of the New York area have gathered at the store for news of the disaster. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 9404 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); KINKI, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: KINOKUNIYA (BOOKSTORE) NIPPON TELEVISION NETWORK CORP (56%); NEW YORK (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: KINOKUNIYA (BOOKSTORE) NEW YORK (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOBE (JAPAN); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (70%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); KINKI, JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; JAPANESE-AMERICANS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EARTHQUAKES (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (72%); TRENDS (71%); CITIES (65%); IMMIGRATION (64%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU KENZO MINAMI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



532 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: ABOUT NEW YORK;
An Old Boss Dies and Five Dreams Die With Him

BYLINE: By David Gonzalez 

 BODY:
WHEN Rafael Morales and his four brothers got beat out of a parking place, they got steamed.
 Then they got a lawyer. 
 Granted, this particular parking place is big. It holds several hundred cars and is better known as the Yorkshire Garage, where the Morales brothers worked for years and were treated like sons by the owner, Rudy Otero. Friends and customers on the Upper West Side said Mr. Otero so trusted the brothers that he promised to bequeath them the garage. After months of haggling over the estate of Mr. Otero, who died last year, the Morales brothers got something else altogether -- a new boss.
 In December, a man entered the garage and handed them a stack of fliers announcing a change of ownership. He asked them to tuck the fliers under the customers' windshield wipers.
 "I felt humiliated," Mr. Morales said. "I thought I had a business."
 As belittled as he felt by that experience, he was even more angered when he learned that part of the deal was put together by the law firm of Fischbein, Badillo. The firm helped the new owners negotiate a lease with the city, which owns the garage building at 151 West 108th Street.

HERMAN Badillo, the politician and the Mayor's adviser on school finances, was not involved in the lease negotiations, but the brothers said they felt betrayed nonetheless, given that they and Mr. Badillo hail from the town of Caguas, P.R.
 The mess -- the indignity, the legal wrangling -- could have been avoided if Mr. Otero had left a will.
 His relatives said he did not, but the brothers -- and their lawyer -- say that he must have. In fact, the brothers are willing to risk their jobs to prove it. They went to court yesterday to challenge Mr. Otero's relatives to produce the document or explain its absence and to try to block the transfer of the garage to new owners.

"EVEN if they fire us, they haven't buried the problem," said Carlos Morales. "We're going to dig out that problem and bring it to the courts and to the public."
 A dozen years ago, Rafael Morales was an unemployed factory worker looking for work. He took a break one day and dropped in on a friend who worked at the garage. He walked out with a job.
 The employees at the garage then were unreliable, he said. There were problems with drugs and other vices. His brothers replaced them.
 The five brothers grew close to Mr. Otero, spending their days working and talking with him. Carlos Morales said Mr. Otero once gave him $500 to help him buy text books for his courses at Mercy College.
 "What our own father never gave us as children," Carlos said, "this man gave us as adults."
 When Mr. Otero fell ill with the cancer that would kill him, Rafael took him to his doctor appointments. When weakness landed him in a hospital, the brothers would always visit.
 "They were the closest thing to a family that I knew he had," said Dr. Raul Lugo, Mr. Otero's friend and doctor. "Their relationship went far beyond what you'd expect from an employer and employee."
 Dr. Lugo, and several other customers and friends, insist that Mr. Otero wanted the Morales brothers to get the garage. Carmen Rohland said in an affidavit that when he told her he had "made arrangements" for the Morales brothers, she asked him if he had prepared his will.
 "Don't worry," she said he replied, "I already did that."
 The brothers have been worried ever since Mr. Otero's death in February. Rudy's brother Manuel and Mr. Otero's relatives went to the garage frantically searching for "the papers," the brothers said. The relatives declined to speak on the record, but they contend there was no will.
 The brothers negotiated with the estate through the summer, although for much of the time they did not know that another garage company was interested in their place. The brothers agreed to the city's request for a rent increase and sent off a draft agreement to the estate's lawyer.
 They heard nothing until the new boss arrived.

"IT sounds like pressure was being put on them to pay more than they were able to pay, to throw them out of the ball park because they didn't have the money to get in," said Jane Bevans, the brothers' new lawyer. "They did in fact have the money. And yet, even on top of that, they were forced out of the game."
 The estate's lawyer said Manuel Otero decided that letting HRF Operating Corporation run the garage was a wise business decision. City officials said they felt they got a fair market rent.
 Richard Fischbein, of the law firm that represented HRF, scoffed at the idea that the brothers were cheated. If the brothers have a dispute, it's with the estate and not his client. Besides, he said, the brothers got to keep their jobs.
 Yes, they're still working in the garage. Working by the hour for someone else.
 That's why they're in court working to keep their dignity.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YORKSHIRE GARAGE (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: YORKSHIRE GARAGE (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PARKING GARAGES AND LOTS; WILLS AND ESTATES PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); LAWYERS (89%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); WILLS (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (71%); CHILDREN (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); EMPLOYMENT (69%); TEXTBOOKS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; MORALES, RAFAEL; OTERO, RUDY MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



533 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: The Way It Was and Could Be

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
In Louis Malle's 1980 film "Atlantic City," an aging numbers runner played by Burt Lancaster rues the passing of the heyday of this old resort city when hoodlum chic and a special pop spirit called "floy-floy" reigned.
 Even the natural wonder of the sea, he lamented, had eroded with time. "The Atlantic Ocean was something then," he said. 
 "You shoulda seen the Atlantic Ocean in those days," he said as he walked by new casinos rising from the rubble of hotels demolished by wrecking balls.
 Atlantic City 15 years later still seems to be a place filled with yesterdays and tomorrows. Rarely are thoughts as much about today as they are about how things once were or could be.
 When Florence Valore Miller looks south from the new city Arts Center on Garden Pier, she sees the ghosts of the splendid old boardwalk hotels torn down to make room for the new generation of glass and concrete casinos.
 Mrs. Miller, 77, who said her father opened Atlantic City's first Italian restaurant early in the century, leads a visitor to an oil painting by Attilio Sinagria hanging on a gallery wall. The top half is a lineup of doomed hotels, with their rococo blandishments and haughty names: Marlborough-Blenheim and Traymore, among others. The bottom half shows the present lineup of glossy barns and towers.
 "This is the beauty we had and this is the garbage we got," said Mrs. Miller, who ran an oasis of culture in a one-room arts center for 40 years until her badgering helped persuade city officials to build a new gallery and museum.
 Those more inclined to think about the future of Atlantic City are generally happier these days.
 Just a few months ago, there was gloomy talk about competition expected from neighboring states, especially Pennsylvania, where one-third of Atlantic City's gambling patrons come from. The theory was that once Gov. Robert P. Casey, an opponent of legalized gambling, left office this month, his successor would move quickly to clear the way for riverboat casinos in Philadelphia and other waterfront cities. Atlantic City casino operators were already hedging their bets by buying up land on the Delaware River to counter a blow to their huge investments here.
 But the new Governor, Thomas Ridge, has said he wants to put the gambling issue before voters in a statewide referendum -- a more drawn-out process than going straight to the legislature, and one with more uncertain chances of success.
 Another sigh of relief from the city's 12 casino hotels was almost audible on Election Day, when Florida voters crushed an initiative to allow casino gambling there, stealing the hearts and wallets of high rollers in winter and probably other seasons as well.
 Gov. George E. Pataki said he might consider putting a casino referendum before New York voters, but the vote might not come until 1997. By then, slot machines and gaming tables here could pile up an additional $10 billion in profits.
 An improving economy helped gaming profits here increase in 1994 by more than 4 percent after several slow years. That translates roughly into an additional $10 million per casino over the 1993 performance.
As icing on the cake, it seems likely that Gov. Christine Todd Whitman will sign legislation passed last month to ease regulation over nongambling aspects of the industry, a move expected to save casinos $10 million a year.
 A companion bill would clear the way for one owner to operate more than three casinos, now the legal limit. Although his name is nowhere on the legislation, the obvious beneficiary is Donald Trump, who could get his fourth gambling license for his Trump Regency hotel.
 Except for Bally's, which has two casinos, no other operator has more than one. At first most of the other owners opposed the bill that would aid Mr. Trump. At the showdown, however, most retreated, finding it inconsistent to limit state regulation in one bill and endorse it in another.
 One major player in Atlantic City who didn't back down was Mayor James Whelan. A 6-foot-, 7-inch schoolteacher elected last year to his second term, Mr. Whelan publicly took on Mr. Trump by saying a fourth casino would place too much power in the hands of one man.
 "Trump and I spoke and he's not happy with my position," the Mayor said in a recent interview. "But I like Trump. He's a promoter and that's what Atlantic City has been built on: People who promoted themselves, their property and the city."
 Mr. Whelan, 46, says he has become more aggressive in promoting the city. "I assume there will be legalized gambling within a two-hour drive of every major American city by the year 2000," he said. "The question is, how do we survive that?"
 "No other city can duplicate what's already here," the Mayor said, referring to the city's 12 gambling halls and more than 7,000 hotel rooms. "Donald Trump is not going to build another Taj Mahal," he added, referring to the $1 billion casino the developer opened in 1990.
 A new 500,000-square-foot convention hall should be in full operation by early 1997, he said, which should draw more people to a resort already pulling in 30 million visits a year, mostly repeat trips by a core of about seven million people from Virginia to New England.
 But what is needed most in a resort that doesn't have a golf course, a movie house or, until recently, a supermarket, is an expansion of attractions that will make Atlantic City a destination instead of a place to gamble for a night or two, he said. That, combined with continued efforts to upgrade neighborhoods that have crumbled after decades of neglect, would insulate the city from competition outside New Jersey, he said.
 However, Peter Boynton, the president and chief operating officer of Caesars Atlantic City Casino and Hotel, said he suspected that the recent good news from Pennsylvania and Florida might deflate what had been a promising start to diversify the resort.
 "From what I hear there is great relief about the lessening of competition from other areas," Mr. Boynton said. "It has put the timetable back at least one year on getting people moving on redevelopment, and what we need to do here to insure the future of Atlantic City."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor James Whelan of Atlantic City on the Boardwalk, at New Jersey Avenue. Behind him are new casinos. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRUMP REGENCY HOTEL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GAMBLING; CASINOS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); CASINOS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); GAMING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); REFERENDUMS (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); PAINTING (73%); TRENDS (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); GOVERNORS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: NORDHEIMER, JON; WHELAN, JAMES (MAYOR); WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) BOB CASEY (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



534 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Your Money Page

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING;
Hedging Currencies: Has Its Time Come?

BYLINE: By Francis Flaherty 

 BODY:
MANY investors in foreign-stock funds know little about protecting their portfolios from currency swings, often called hedging. But as 1995 unfolds, they may be compelled to pay attention.
 "For 10 years nonhedgers gained as the dollar declined," said Malcolm Tulloch, an equity strategist at G. T. Global funds in San Francisco. The dollar bought 263 yen in early 1985 and now buys just under 100. For an unhedged American investor, this means $2.63 now for every $1 invested then in Japan, even if the stock price has not changed. 
 But many economists predict the dollar will rise against the yen, mark and other currencies in 1995. If they are right, a failure to hedge may trim returns, not augment them.
 "In 1992, the British market rose 25 percent, and the pound dropped 25 percent," Mr. Tulloch noted. Americans who invested there without hedging gained nothing. Those who used hedges, through forward contracts and other complex tools, preserved most of the stock gain.
 Of the foreign-stock funds surveyed by Morningstar, the mutual fund research company, 30 percent say they never hedge. About 13 percent say they actively hedge, and 57 percent do so occasionally.
 Among the funds that ever hedge, many are doing so now. Mr. Tulloch expects the mark to fall 15 percent in 1995 and has hedged his funds against the currency's decline. He is hedging the yen, too, as is Roy Gillson, manager of the $140 million IAI International Fund. "Twenty-eight percent of our fund is in Japan," Mr. Gillson said. "Half that is hedged."
 Other funds -- Dreyfus Global Growth, Japan Fund, SEI International Equity -- are also hedging the yen, and some funds have small hedges on the French franc and Swedish krona. Still others are considering the technique. "We think a stock's potential is more important than currency," said Gary Johnson, risk director at Scudder funds. "But we are looking at hedging more."
 The critics remain steadfast, however. "We get better returns without hedging," said Dorian Foyil, a research director at Templeton funds. "Hedges have costs." Mr. Gillson estimated his hedges reduced yearly returns by five-tenths of a percent. At other funds, it may be higher.
 Long-term investors benefit from a natural hedge, Mr. Foyil said. "When a foreign currency depreciates, it sparks the country's economy," he explained, creating equity gains that can undo the currency damage. In 1982, for instance, a peso devaluation of 83 percent sparked a 238 percent rise in Mexican stocks in dollar terms the following year.
 Also, hedges hurt the very diversification that makes foreign investing attractive. "U.S. investors have many dollar-based things -- houses, cars, bank accounts," said John Markese of the American Association of Individual Investors in Chicago. "Why turn foreign assets back into dollars?"
 Anyway, he said, "hedging assumes you can forecast currency moves, but they're unpredictable." Indeed, many funds hedged on the mistaken assumption that the dollar would rise in 1994.
 This year sees no unanimity, either. "We hedge if it makes sense," said George Murnaghan, a vice president of T. Rowe Price. "But we don't expect the dollar to rise much."
 Indeed, hedging is akin to pinning the tail on the donkey, with one right way and dozens of wrong ones. "Our funds average 25 different currencies," Mr. Foyil said. "Which should we hedge? And for how long?"
 Unpredictability cuts both ways. "I don't know if the yen will drop 15 percent, but if it does it will greatly affect my performance," said Kelly McDermott, who hedges for her Dreyfus Global Growth fund.
 Although focusing on stocks and letting currency swings cancel out in the long run seem plausible, the swings can go on and on, those who hedge say. "The pound has fallen since the late 19th century," Mr. Murnaghan noted.
 Moreover, "hedging mitigates volatility," said Philip Wagner, a manager of SEI International Equity. This gives all shareholders peace of mind, he said, and helps those who redeem shares in volatile times.
 Fund managers may have the most to gain. "The greatest crime for managers is to fall below the indexes," Mr. Markese said. "Hedges help them more than investors."
 What's an investor to do? "Find a good unhedged fund," he said, "and to reduce risk, diversify."
 Amy Arnott of Morningstar said, "For investing five years or less use a hedged fund; for longer use an unhedged one." And since hedging is hard, use a fund with a record.
 Or investors can take the Solomonic approach that Harold Evensky, a financial planner in Coral Gables, Fla., uses for foreign bond investments. "I use one fully hedged fund, an unhedged one and one that hedges intermittently. And, yes, it's an admission of confusion."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "GOOD AND CAUTIOUS" Total returns of five top diversified international stock funds that say they occasionally hedge their holdings against currency risk. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN FUND (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); DEVALUATION (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: FLAHERTY, FRANCIS ROY GILLSON (73%); MALCOLM TULLOCH (70%); DORIAN FOYIL (67%); JOHN MARKESE (57%); GEORGE MURNAGHAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



535 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Retailer From Chicago Places Big Manhattan Bet

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Fresh out of Northwestern University in 1960 with a degree in business administration, Gordon Segal took a job at the Four Seasons restaurant in Manhattan.
 "I ran out of money before I got promoted," said Mr. Segal, who gave up after six months. "I went home and said, 'I'm not ready for this.' " 
 Now he is going back for a second shot at making it in New York City. Mr. Segal, president of Crate and Barrel, the housewares and furniture chain based here, has a big store under construction at 59th Street and Madison Avenue in the heart of Manhattan's upscale retail district. It is being closely watched as part of the recent movement of several big retailers into New York City even as the Northeast's sluggish economic recovery remains on shaky ground.
 But this time, Mr. Segal -- with a chain of 55 stores stretching from Boston to California and a growing catalogue business -- seems about as ready as any newcomer possibly could be. He has spent four years mapping his March debut in the city he calls the "capital of the world." Much of the time was spent fretting over a midtown site. Mr. Segal also wanted to experiment at other Crate outlets to satisfy himself that his stores could sell furniture as successfully as they did housewares.
 To spread Crate and Barrel's name in the New York region and make distribution more efficient, he is going ahead with plans to open stores this summer in White Plains and in Short Hills, N.J.
 "Nothing really good happens too quickly," said Mr. Segal, who is 56. He has turned down repeated offers from investment bankers to take the chain public or sell it to investors with deep pockets so that it could expand more rapidly. He and a handful of senior executives own all the stock in Euromarket Designs Inc., Crate's corporate parent.
 The secret to Mr. Segal's strategy may be his melding of such cautious views about finance with an almost hedonistic affection for merchandise and merchandising. Mr. Segal and his wife, Carole, opened their first store in a former elevator factory here in 1962. They began by selling European-designed tableware they had fallen in love with on their travels but had been unable to buy locally. Starting out with too little money to afford store fixtures, they took their name from the packing crates and barrels on which they stacked display goods.
 The leased New York store, which will cost Crate about $10 million to develop, is less of a gamble than the company took in 1990 when it poured $24 million into building its flagship here on North Michigan Avenue. That modern, bright and glassy four-story structure was farther south than any major merchant had dared move on Chicago's "Magnificent Mile," but it quickly became a local landmark and a shopping destination for tourists. Some of the tourists include other retailers.
 "He's a consummate merchant," said Bernard Marcus, who built Home Depot into the premier mass marketer of do-it-yourself supplies. "I like to drop in to his stores whenever I travel to a place that has one because they are just plain fun."
 The Crate formula relies on distinctive products with modest markups, direct and long-term relationships with manufacturers, subtle but frequent design changes, brilliantly lighted arrangements of towers and rows of houseware items, and a strong emphasis on thoroughly trained, cheerful employees.
 It has been highly profitable, Mr. Segal said. Crate and Barrel will have revenues of about $274 million in the fiscal year that ends this month, up from $232 million the previous year, and is "at the upper end" of retail operating margins, he said. Mr. Segal declined to release more specific information or discuss how much of this year's gain came from opening new stores.
 As Crate and Barrel spreads beyond its Midwestern base, though, Mr. Segal's team confronts better-financed rivals like the Pottery Barn division of Williams-Sonoma Inc. In New York, it will also overlap part of the market of Bed, Bath and Beyond -- a housewares and linen "category killer" that blankets its category with a huge variety of offerings at discount prices. And he is invading the home turf of Bloomingdale's and Macy's,department stores that are both strong in housewares.
 The New York store, which will have 33,000 square feet of selling space, 50 percent more than the Michigan Avenue flagship, will not have exactly the same selection as other Crate stores.
 "We'll be a little less conservative in New York," said Barbara Turf, executive vice president for merchandising and marketing.
 To help keep its edge, Crate is paying more attention to financial and inventory management systems, subjects that Mr. Segal gamely but unsuccessfully tries to describe with the same verve he exudes when discussing merchandise.
 The company relies to an unusual degree on employees recruited from outside the retailing industry; many senior executives are former teachers who worked their way up the management ranks. (Carole Segal taught for a year before the first Crate and Barrel was opened, and Mr. Segal says teachers are skilled at teamwork and pay attention to customers.)
 "You'll find a lot of people here who thought they were on their way to another job and ended up staying," said Barbara Reiman, one of two regional vice presidents. As a fourth-grade teacher who loved shopping at Crate, she sought summer work 20 years ago and ended up taking a pay cut to join the company. Ms. Turf, who took a summer job at the original store 27 years ago, is another former teacher.
 Crate's offerings, outside of a few areas like cookware, where shoppers will find well-known brands like Calphalon, are designed and manufactured exclusively for it.
 "We never take a manufacturer's product straight off the floor," said Lon Hobkirk, the head of furniture operations. "No matter what the style, we'll have our version of it."
 That does not always come easily. One group of pieces that customers will see this spring is pine cabinetry that will age white rather than yellow, eventually matching a color Mr. Hobkirk had found on Scandinavian antiques. It took months of work with J & M Designs of Vernon, Calif., including a full week at the factory for Mr. Hobkirk, to get the right combination of bleaching. But Mary Beck, J & M's owner, is not complaining.
 "Crate is known throughout the industry as a treasured account," Mrs. Beck said. " They have an incredible eye."
 The batting average is not perfect, of course. Some products do better than they would in other stores, thanks to overall display wizardry. But Crate's corporate legends include several out-and-out pratfalls, like being several years too early into the slip-cover look only now becoming popular.
 Some of Crate's most loyal suppliers are based overseas. "Gordon was my first customer," said Jorgen Bodum, who since 1974 has run Bodum, his Danish family's glass and housewares business, which is now based in Switzerland. "He bought those French-press coffee makers we now sell to Starbucks and everyone else."
 It is finding new discoveries like Bodum that keeps Mr. Segal going.
 "My goal was not to build a chain of stores," Mr. Segal told a group of more than 20 New York employees earlier this week at their first orientation session. "My goal was to travel to Europe, eat well, find neat things and get people excited about what we found. My whole life has been spent trying to turn people on."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gordon Segal, president of Crate and Barrel, the housewares and furniture chain based in Chicago, is preparing to expand into the heart of midtown Manhattan's affluent retail district. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (64%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CRATE AND BARREL (STORE) EUROMARKET DESIGNS INC (64%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CRATE AND BARREL (STORE) NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (56%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE RETAILERS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (75%); FURNITURE STORES (75%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J; SEGAL, GORDON GORDON SEGAL (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



536 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Brisk Pace In Building Of Homes

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Despite a yearlong progression of higher interest rates, builders broke ground on new homes at a brisk clip last month to finish 1994 with a 13 percent annual gain and the highest output in six years, the Commerce Department reported today.
 Including an upward revision for November, recent construction activity has held up better than expected. Many analysts said this strength further solidified the case for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates again later this month to try to restrain economic growth and keep inflation in check. 
 Separately, the University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence, which is released only to subscribers but is widely reported, was said to have shown a jump of 10 points in its preliminary January reading. That is considered another sign that economic vigor is greater than can be sustained without raising inflation.
 Concerns about inflation and higher interest rates sharply depressed bond prices today, pushing yields higher. [Page 48.]
 Analysts remained surprised by the modest toll that rising interest rates have taken on the housing market as the rate on conventional 30-year mortgages has climbed to 9 percent from 7 percent. Still, they detected evidence that the trend was starting to tip downward.
 In particular, they said that the unusually warm fall and early winter had artificially inflated construction activity by enouraging building that otherwise might not have occurred until spring.
 Housing starts over all actually edged down 1 percent last month, to an annual rate of 1,529,000, following what is now calculated as a 7.6 percent surge in November. Nonetheless, the December rate was the second highest of the year, behind November. And the decline in December was entirely attributable to a drop in building of multifamily housing; construction of single-family houses rose.
 "It's a false strength," said Robert R. Davis, chief economist for the Savings and Community Bankers of America, a trade group. He predicted that the economy would decelerate rapidly this year and that home construction would drop 10 to 15 percent.
Tommy Thompson, president of the National Association of Home Builders, said today that while he was pleased with the latest results he feared that further increases in interest rates were coming and he predicted a 5 percent decline in home building this year.
 "We're still concerned about the Fed and what they might do," said Mr. Thompson, a builder in Kentucky.
 A shift by consumers to adjustable-rate mortgages has helped cushion the impact of rising rates so far, but with adjustable-rate mortgages now accounting for 60 percent of new mortgages, up from 15 percent late last winter, they are unlikely to be such a mitigating force this year.
 December's modest decline in overall starts was a result of a drop in construction of buildings with two or more units, which slumped 13.9 percent from a very rapid November pace. Aided by restoration of a tax credit for low-income housing, multifamily construction had surged in the second half of the year.
 In single-family homes, December construction was at an annual pace of 1,226,000, a 2.8 percent rise that lifted the overall 1994 gain to 6 percent. At 1,195,600 homes, the yearly total was the highest since 1978.
 Still, said David C. Munro, an economist at High Frequency Economics, a New York consultant, the December results "are just kind of wobbly" in light of exceptionally favorable weather and other reports of weaker home sales and customer traffic.
 By region, starts in the Northeast and Midwest eased in December by 10.7 percent and 11.8 percent, respectively, while the South and West posted gains of 4 percent and 5.6 percent.
 Actual starts nationwide, without seasonal adjustment or annualization, were 95,100 last month, down from 112,900 in November and 98,700 in December 1993.
 Permits for future construction edged up six-tenths of 1 percent last month, the report also showed, with the West posting the only decline.
 Shipments of mobile homes, which are reported a month later than other housing data, rose 4.2 percent in November to an annual rate of 323,000.
 The University of Michigan's confidence survey surged in mid-January to 114.9 from 104.9, with the assessment of current conditions climbing 4 points, to 99.1, and the expectations component inching up two-tenths of a point, to 89.
 Such optimism, said Marilyn Schaja of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, makes the Commerce Department's recent report of weak retail sales late last year "even more suspect."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (52%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; HOUSING STARTS ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); TRENDS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BONDS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BOND MARKETS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); COMMUNITY BANKS (62%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR TOMMY THOMPSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



537 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: Auto Shares Decline On New Ford Moves

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 20

 BODY:
In a move likely to stoke fears that auto sales are flagging, the Ford Motor Company said today that it might close factories that make Windstar mini-vans and Escort small cars for longer than the one week it previously disclosed.
And after the New York Stock Exchange closed, the Chrysler Corporation announced that it was expanding rebates on the more expensive versions of its Neon subcompact cars, which have been selling poorly. 
 Although Ford executives said their production cutbacks did not reflect weakening sales, investors vehemently disagreed with them today.
 The earlier disclosures that Ford was planning one-week shutdowns at some of its factories sent auto stocks skidding. This morning, they fell further as one prominent Wall Street analyst slightly shaved his earnings estimates for Ford and Chrysler, citing weakening in mini-van sales and in the vehicle market more generally.
 In New York Stock Exchange trading today, Ford closed down $1.125 at $26.375. Shares of Chrysler ended at $47.125, down $2.125, and General Motors slipped 75 cents, to $39.50.
 Investors in G.M. may also have been reacting to a strike at a vital G.M. parts complex in Flint, Mich. The strike has halted assembly of more than two dozen models of cars and light trucks.
 The analyst, Jack Kirnan of Salomon Brothers, said the production cuts signaled broader weakening in the auto market. In particular, he said, the cutback in Windstar production, combined with a backup of other mini-vans on dealers' lots, indicated auto makers might have to cut prices to stimulate sales.
 "We would be amazed if Chrysler doesn't respond within a matter of days by adding a $500 rebate" or other incentive to its mini-vans, he wrote in an analysis released today. Chrysler has built up its inventories of mini-vans in anticipation of a production shutdown this spring to prepare to introduce a new model.
 The Neon rebates at Chrysler amount to $400 to $600 a vehicle, or lowered financing rates. The rebates had been available only to first-time car buyers.
 Meanwhile, Ford said the production cutbacks announced so far might not be enough to balance out supplies. "We may take another week of Windstar," said Ross Roberts, general manager of the Ford division. "We're taking a look at that."
 Similarly, Ford may shut its Hermosillo, Mexico, and Wayne, Mich., Escort plants for another week, he said. And Ford executives said they were not certain when they would restore overtime at their Kansas City, Mo., assembly plant, which makes Ford Contour and Mercury Mystique compact cars. Ford canceled overtime at that plant this week, after running two 10-hour shifts there since last summer.
 Ford contends that in each case, it is responding to a drop in dealers' order, not customer demand. As interest rates have risen, Ford said, the cost to dealers of carrying large inventories have also jumped.
 Higher interest rates have not discouraged customers, Mr. Roberts said, predicting that January's car and truck sales would come in ahead of last year's. "On the consumer, it's fine," he said of the effect of interest rates. "On the dealer, with his inventory costs, it's a problem."
 Over all, Mr. Roberts said, Ford dealers had 200,000 more cars and trucks in stock than they did a year ago. "That's probably more than we should have," he added.
 Ford dealers and their competitors said today that they had seen no slackening in demand, although several said that high interest rates were causing them to cut back on inventory.
 "Both the Windstars and Escorts have been selling like crazy," said Jim Catucci, a salesman at McCafferty Ford, in Langhorne, Pa.
 But several dealers said they were preparing to cut inventory because of rising rates. "Every 1 percent increase in the prime raises my cost of doing business by $5,000 a month," said David Wilson, owner of Toyota of Orange in Orange, Calif. "With current interest rates, we're at the level where we'll start to reduce inventory to decrease costs."
 Still, Mr. Wilson added, "rates haven't yet begun to affect consumer purchasing."

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Detriot Worries Wall Street" Daily closing stock prices for the Big Three automakers so far this year, plotted on comparable scales. (Source: Datastream)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (75%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP FORD MOTOR CO (96%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO; CHRYSLER CORP; GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (51%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (75%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; STOCKS AND BONDS; SALES; PRODUCTION MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); BONDS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (73%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



538 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Business Digest

 BODY:

Companies
 
The scramble for long-distance customers is growing wilder -- and more confusing for consumers. AT&T, MCI and Sprint have been promoting ever-more-generous discounts for people who make lots of calls. But people who make few calls or those who make lots of calls but have not signed up for a discount plan are seeing their prices go up rather than down. [Page 1.]
 
Microsoft's antitrust settlement was questioned by a Federal judge who displayed documents suggesting that Microsoft had intentionally deceived its rivals. [37.]
 
Crate and Barrel is making a move into Manhattan. Crate and Barrel, the Chicago-based housewares and furniture chain, plans to open its store in March. Its expansion is part of a recent movement of several big retailers into New York City even as the Northeast's economic recovery remains on shaky ground. [37.]
 
Ford may close plants that make Windstar mini-vans for longer than the one week it had previously announced. The planned production cutback drove down stocks of auto makers. [37.]
 
Viacom reached an agreement to sell its cable systems for $2.3 billion to a group that is led by a black entrepreneur and includes a company partly owned by Tele-Communications. [37.]
 
Trammell Crow is easing back into real estate development. The company, the nation's biggest developer until real estate values crashed in the 1980's, is cautiously looking for properties. [39.]
 
Shares of Cyrix jumped after the company said it had overcome manufacturing problems with its Intel-clone computer chips. [39.]
 
American Maize-Products received a sweetened bid of $38 a share, or $380 million, from a French suitor. [39.]
 
A strike at a G.M. parts plant was tentatively settled. [7.]
 
 
The Economy
 
The housing industry is showing strength in the face of higher interest rates. Housing starts slipped 1 percent in December, but still finishing 1994 with a 13 percent annual gain. [37.]
 
 
International
 
World trade has been disrupted by the closing of Kobe's port as a result of the earthquake this week. Kobe, Japan's largest container port, served as a hub for the movement of goods to other parts of East Asia, and its closing has had a domino effect. [1.]
 
Mexico's financial markets continue to be racked by concerns that the United States will not pass an aid package. [49.]
 
 
Markets
 
Stocks declined for the fourth consecutive session. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.17 points. [38.]
 
The dollar continued to slide against the German mark. The Canadian dollar touched another nine-year low. [47.]
 
Coffee prices tumbled on doubts that Brazil will join a quota plan. Sugar prices recovered, while crude oil slipped. [47.]
 
Treasury prices tumbled, dragged down by a weaker dollar and concerns over a new supply of securities. [48.]
 
 
Your Money
 
Insider trading among family members is increasingly a target of the S.E.C. Cases against people accused of using family ties to obtain secret corporate information and then profiting from that information in the stock market represented more than 10 percent of all the insider cases filed by the commission last year. [35.]
 
Are foreign stock funds that hedge against currency swings a better investment than funds that do not? While reducing the risk of volatility, hedges can be costly and they hurt the very diversification that makes foreign investing attractive. [35.]
 
Finding earthquake insurance is a struggle for many California homeowners. Some home insurers are quietly circumventing a law requiring them to offer earthquake coverage. [36.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (55%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS325199 ALL OTHER BASIC ORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311119 OTHER ANIMAL FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC5153 GRAIN & FIELD BEANS (54%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2099 OTHER FOOD PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (74%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); KINKI, JAPAN (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (57%); VIACOM INC (55%); TRAMMELL CROW CO (55%); INTEL CORP (54%); CARGILL INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (74%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); KINKI, JAPAN (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REAL ESTATE (91%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); CABLE INDUSTRY (79%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RETAILERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); HOME PRICES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); US DOLLAR (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); MINIVANS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); COFFEE MARKETS (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (70%); FURNITURE STORES (69%); HOUSING STARTS (68%); INSIDER TRADING (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); COFFEE (60%); GERMAN MARK (60%); BOND MARKETS (60%); EARTHQUAKES (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



539 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: Viacom to Sell Its Cable Systems for $2.3 Billion

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
Viacom Inc. reached a definitive agreement yesterday to sell its cable television systems for approximately $2.3 billion to an investment group that is led by a black entrepreneur and includes a company partly owned by Tele-Communications Inc.
 The two sides said Viacom would receive $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion in cash for the cable systems, which have 1.1 million subscribers. The longer the deal takes to close, the more cash Viacom receives. Viacom will also get a one-year secured note for $600 million, the companies said yesterday. 
 Moreover, the deal will provide Viacom with significant tax benefits, since the acquiring group, RCS Pacific L.P., is 21 percent owned by Frank Washington, a black entrepreneur.
 Analysts said the deal was quite favorable for Viacom because the short-term note was already valued close to its face value, regardless of the interest rate.
 "It is a fabulous deal for Viacom because they want to get out of the cable system business," said Paul Kagan of Paul Kagan Associates, a media consulting firm. "They want the cash and they can use it to pay off debt."
 He added, "They are basically swapping their cable assets for Paramount assets," referring to Viacom's $10 billion acquisition of Paramount Communications Inc. last year and the billions of dollar of debt that deal required.
 Mr. Washington is the general partner of RCS, a group that includes Intermedia Partners, a San Francisco-based cable system operator. Tele-Communications, the nation's largest cable operator, holds a 20 percent stake in Intermedia.
 Under Federal Communications Commission rules, the transaction qualifies for a minority tax certificate that allows Viacom to defer Federal taxes on profits from the sale for 20 years if it invests in other media properties. Viacom could defer more than $200 million in taxes.
 Next Friday, however, the House Ways and Means Committee has scheduled hearings on the minority tax certificate program in response to concerns about the tax deferrals expressed by its chairman, Bill Archer, Republican of Texas.
 The cable systems being acquired by RCS include ones in Northern California, Seattle and Tacoma, Wash., and Nashville, as well as other cities.
 Separately, Viacom and Tele-Communications said last night that the antitrust suit filed by Viacom against Tele-Communications during the fight last year for Paramount had yet to be settled, though a settlement was supposed to have been part of the cable systems deal.
 A person close to Viacom said last night that the lawsuit would be officially settled only when the cable sale closed. At that time, this person said, an agreement will take effect guaranteeing that Showtime, Viacom's pay television service, will be distributed over Tele-Communications' cable systems.
 The antitrust issues raised in litigation are effectively resolved in that contract, this person said.
 One analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity said he would only believe the lawsuit had been settled when he saw that the settlement had officially been signed.
 The sale of Viacom's cable systems was announced late yesterday, after the stock market had closed. Earlier, Viacom's actively traded class B stock ended at $44.50 a share, down 50 cents, on the American Stock Exchange. Tele-Communications' shares ended at $21.75, down 50 cents, in Nasdaq trading.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (96%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (67%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); 

CITY: TACOMA, WA, USA (71%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (69%); 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC; TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC; RCS PACIFIC CO VIACOM INC (96%); PARAMOUNT COMMUNICATIONS INC (67%); PAUL KAGAN ASSOCIATES INC (55%); INTERMEDIA PARTNERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: VIACOM INC; TELE-COMMUNICATIONS INC; RCS PACIFIC CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); TACOMA, WA, USA (71%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CABLE TELEVISION; TELEVISION MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); LITIGATION (85%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); ACQUISITIONS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (70%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE; WASHINGTON, FRANK CHRISTIAN PAUL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



540 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: Dow Off 12.78 on View That Rates Will Climb

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market declined yesterday, with signs abounding that last week's upward momentum had been turned around. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 12.78 points to close at 3,869.43.
 The market was weighed down by inflation concerns prompted by a report showing a brisk pace in housing starts and by a surge in the University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index. The reports solidified the case for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, which could slow the economy as well as raise corporate borrowing costs. In addition, a weak dollar, sharply lower bond prices and a slew of bad corporate news helped to push stock prices downward. 
 Yesterday's session was also a "double witching," when options on individual stocks and options on stock indexes expire simultaneously. These expirations, which fostered a great deal of computer-guided program trading on Thursday as well, contributed to volatility.
 "The day's market activity was evidence of an economy that is not cooling as fast as had been thought as recently as last week," said Richard Cripps, chief market strategist for Legg Mason in Baltimore. "Obviously the outside influences were reasons for many investors to take profits."
 The consensus among market analysts is that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates by one-half of a percentage point when its policy-making group meets on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1. A week ago, faced with a report showing sagging retail sales, some analysts were doubting that there would be any increase at all.
 The Dow's decline yesterday followed a drop of 46.77 points on Thursday, the steepest one-day drop since Dec. 8, when the average fell 49.79 points.
 Among other market indicators, the Standard & Poor's 500 index closed at 464.78, down 2.17 points; the Nasdaq composite index closed at 762.05, down 6.50 points, and the American Stock Exchange composite index closed at 437.64, down 1.89 points.
 Declining stocks on the New York Stock Exchange exceeded advancing issues by 1,472 to 744. Volume on the Big Board totaled 378.2 million shares, far above Thursday's turnover of 314.1 million shares.
 The big losers included the major auto makers, which are particularly sensitive to increases in interest rates and swings in the economy. Ford Motor fell 1 1/8, to 26 3/8; Chrysler dropped 2 1/8, to 47 1/8, and General Motors declined 3/4, to 39 1/2.
 Many cyclical stocks -- which move up and down along with general economic conditions -- were also weak. International Paper was off 7/8, to 76 3/4; Aluminum Company of America was off 1 1/4, to 86 1/8, and Caterpillar was off 2 1/8, to 52 5/8.
 Computer issues plunged, despite a report from Apple that its fiscal first-quarter profits more than quadrupled. Among the Big Three, Apple closed at 42 5/8, off 3 1/4; Compaq closed at 41 3/4, off 1 1/8, and I.B.M. closed at 75 3/8, off 1 1/8.
 After yesterday's announcement by Morgan Stanley that its fourth-quarter earnings would be substantially lower than its third-quarter results, some financial stocks dropped. Morgan Stanley fell 3 7/8, to 59; Citicorp eased 1/2, to 38 7/8, and Bankers Trust declined 1/2, to 57 1/4.
 Also on the upside was Nabisco Holdings, a spinoff of RJR Nabisco, on its first day of trading. The most active stock on the New York exchange, Nabisco Holdings jumped 2 3/8, to 26 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (60%); AA (NYSE) (60%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); LM (NYSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (60%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (60%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); LEGG MASON INC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (52%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CORPORATE BONDS (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



541 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Mark, an Investors' Haven, Continues to Rise vs. Dollar

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The German mark yesterday continued to strengthen at the expense of the dollar, which fell against most leading currencies.
 The mark's strength, owing in part to the currency's growing attractiveness to investors as a safe-haven currency, has become a key factor behind the dollar's recent weakness against a broad range of currencies. 
 The dollar did manage to score modest gains yesterday against the Japanese yen, whose medium-term outlook is clouded by the need for reconstruction after the devastating earthquake in central Japan.
 In New York trading late yesterday, the dollar fell to 1.5115 marks from 1.5160 marks on Thursday. The dollar also fell to 1.2712 Swiss francs from 1.2725 francs. The British pound rose to $1.5890 from $1.5868. But the dollar edged up against the yen, to 99.40 yen from 99.10 yen.
 While the dollar has been bolstered since late last month by expectations that the Federal Reserve will again raise short-term interest rates after a policy meeting at the end of this month, many dealers are unsure of how much further the Fed will raise rates. Higher interest rates typically strengthen the dollar by making investments in dollar-denominated securities more attractive than those from abroad.
 "What's going on is the same pattern we've seen for the past year," said Ron Leven, global currency strategist at J. P. Morgan. "The market gets too enthusiastic about the dollar too soon and what you end up with is a lot of investors who are long dollars and don't know what to do."
 Also weighing on the dollar yesterday was a mounting Congressional debate over the Clinton Administration's $40 billion rescue package for Mexico. House Speaker Newt Gingrich said opposition to the package appeared to be growing, particularly among Democrats.
 Currency dealers said failure to get the plan through Congress would revive expectations of a weaker Mexican peso, which in turn would prompt the Federal Reserve to sell dollars on its behalf. That would tend to push the dollar down.
 In other currency trading, the Canadian dollar, which has been under intense selling pressure recently, touched a nine-year low of 70.07 United States cents before recovering to 70.25 cents, up slightly from 70.22 cents on Thursday. Traders said intervention by the Bank of Canada to support the currency helped to break its fall.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN DELAWARE (54%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); JAPAN (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (95%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); BRITISH POUND (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (63%); EARTHQUAKES (55%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



542 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 360 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Coffee Tumbles on Doubts Brazil Will Join Quota Plan

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Coffee prices fell sharply yesterday as traders doubted whether Brazil could afford to join a quota plan.
 On other commodity markets, sugar prices recovered, while crude oil prices slipped. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities edged down 0.06 point, to 237.17. 
 Coffee prices have staged a modest rally during the last month based on recent meetings among Central American coffee producers to reinstitute a retention scheme.
 Last year, Brazil, the world's largest coffee producer, and Colombia, the second largest, joined the plan that withheld up to 20 percent of coffee output to bolster prices. The market got an even larger lift in June and July, when twin freezes hit Brazil's coffee plantations.
 But traders questioned whether Brazil, burdened by high inflation and Government debt, could afford to withhold its crop this year.
 Coffee for delivery in March fell 2.5 cents, to 169.85 cents a pound, retreating from 10-week highs of 176.25 cents at the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York.
 Sugar prices rebounded from a two-week decline.
 Prices were helped yesterday, traders said, by speculation about problems with Cuba's crop. Expectations of sales to Egypt, India and China also helped prices.
 Sugar prices hit a six-year high of 15.74 cents a pound on Jan. 6. But prices had dropped 9 percent as the speculative bubble in sugar prices appeared to have burst.
 The market recovered yesterday, with the March sugar contract gaining 0.35 cent, to 15.13 cents.
 Cocoa prices rose to a four-month high, with March cocoa gaining $28, to $1,381 a metric ton.
 On the New York Mercantile Exchange, oil prices ended lower but ended with strong gains for the week, led by surging gasoline prices.
 Gasoline prices have risen on signs of increased consumption. But traders said yesterday that the data might reflect a switch to a new grade of cleaner-burning gasoline.
 The February crude oil contract lost 4 cents, to $18.65 a barrel, but advanced $1.13 for the week.
 February gasoline fell 0.72 cent, to 57.40 cents a gallon, and February heating oil edged down 0.14 cent, to 48.14 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (95%); CHINA (79%); EGYPT (75%); INDIA (70%); UNITED STATES (70%); CUBA (54%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (95%); CHINA (79%); EGYPT (75%); INDIA (70%); UNITED STATES (70%); CUBA (54%); NEW YORK, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COFFEE; PRICES; QUOTAS COFFEE (94%); COFFEE MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COFFEE FARMING (90%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); COCOA MARKETS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); SUGAR MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); BIOFUELS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); COCOA FARMING (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (54%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



543 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Treasuries Fall On a Light-Volume Day

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities dropped sharply yesterday as investors became increasingly concerned about the dollar and Congressional approval of the Mexican aid package.
 Traders are beginning to grow wary that if the dollar remains weak there is the possibility that investor demand for coming supplies of new Treasury securities will evaporate and cause prices to fall. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond ended down 22/32 , to 9521/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 7.88 percent, from 7.82 percent on Thursday and the highest in more than a week.
 The selling pressures in the market yesterday increased after the National Association of Purchasing Management released revisions to its December index, showing higher prices paid for intermediate goods. But yesterday's declines were exaggerated by a lack of trading volume, traders said.
 In early trading, the price of the 30-year Treasury bond slipped in tandem with the dollar, which was dragged down in part by fears that the Federal Reserve would be forced to sell dollars to support the peso if Congress failed to pass the Mexican aid package. A weaker dollar discourages foreign investors from buying American assets like Treasury securities.
 The market was also weighed down by two reports suggesting inflationary pressures. Although housing starts fell last month, they continued at a brisk clip. Separately, the University of Michigan's index of consumer confidence showed that current expectations were still high, analysts said, an indication that consumers were still buying. Analysts said the Michigan survey underscored the strength in job and income growth, which will likely keep inflation fears simmering.
 Traders and analysts are also concerned about a new supply of securities coming to market, said Michael P. Ryan, fixed-income strategist at Paine Webber Inc. "The market is looking at absorbing $28.25 billion of new two-year and five-year notes next week, then immediately afterward will be faced with the Government's quarterly refunding that will be announced on Feb. 1," Mr. Ryan said.
 In when-issued trading yesterday, the new two-year notes were being offered at a price to yield 7.55 percent, a couple of basis points higher than the previous day, while the new five-year notes were up 5 basis points to yield 7.81 percent, a sign that dealers will have to push hard to sell this maturity. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
 Expectations of another increase in interest rates in two weeks is also keeping keeping buyers at bay, Mr. Ryan said. Most analysts and traders are expecting a rate increase of 50 basis points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BOND PRICES AND TRADING VOLUME TREASURY SECURITIES (94%); BONDS (92%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (79%); BOND MARKETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (71%); HOUSING STARTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MICHAEL P RYAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



544 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 49; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Aid Doubts Strain Mexican Markets

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 20

 BODY:
As the Clinton Administration and Congress bickered in Washington over an aid package to Mexico, the lack of an agreement and investor doubts continued to strain Mexico's volatile financial markets.
 Today marked one month to the day since the Mexican Government set off the current economic crisis by devaluing the peso. The Mexican stock exchange reversed its losses earlier this morning to close slightly higher, but the modest rally failed to compensate for three consecutive declines earlier this week, when the market index dropped more than 190 points. 
 The battered peso, which was worth 3.46 to the dollar before Dec. 20, closed slightly down at 5.585 to the dollar in New York trading today, compared with 5.505 in New York on Thursday.
 In Washington today, Administration officials professed confidence that they would get the aid package through next week, but laden with strict conditions for fiscal control in Mexico City. But on Capitol Hill, there was little evidence that the aid package was headed for quick passage.
 The Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, blamed Democrats for not having their own votes together to bring the aid package to the floor of the House this week.
 "Opposition to it seems to be growing, particularly among the Democrats, which will, frankly, make it much harder to get Republicans," he said. "And the longer you drag it out, the more people question the urgency, the harder it's going to be to pass it."
 Senator Jesse Helms, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, vowed to hold "exhaustive and perhaps exhausting hearings on the pros and cons of the Administration's proposal," and said that the "vast majority" of senators he had spoken with were opposed to a Mexican bailout.
 The Administration's fear is that delay alone could send the markets awry, and today the new Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, provided new warnings of the global chaos that would occur if the problem spread to other markets in Latin America and Asia. The head of the Council of Economic Advisers, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, said that a global run could take a point off the growth in America's gross domestic product over the next two years.
 Financial analysts said the Mexican markets were likely to stay on a roller coaster until a final decision was made on the $40 billion loan guarantee package.
 "On days when it looks like the Mexican guarantees will be accepted by the U.S., all the markets, not just Mexico, will go up," said Neal M. Soss, an economist in New York who worked at the Federal Reserve Board during the Mexican debt crisis of 1982. "When it looks like the guarantees won't be accepted, they're all likely to tumble."
 The loan guarantee package is essential for investors because Mexico has practically lost its ability to get credit on the international market since the peso was devalued. The country has more than $25 billion in short-term bonds coming due during this year. Without the loan guarantees from the United States, Mexico will find it almost impossible to borrow money to cover its obligations.
 The Mexican market index ended today at 2,065.45, a gain of just 0.66 percent over Thursday's close.
 "There were some buyers at the end," said Pablo Riveroll, research director at Bursamex, a Mexico City brokerage firm. "But I'd say we had more sellers than buyers throughout the day. The mood of the whole week continued."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: ADMINISTRATION&CONGRESS (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: ADMINISTRATION&CONGRESS (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; FINANCES; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; GOVERNMENT BONDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (60%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DEPALMA, ANTHONY NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



545 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 8605 words

HEADLINE: Wanted: A Kinder, Gentler Cop

BYLINE: By Richard Rayner; Richard Rayner, author of "Los Angeles Without a Map," reported on the Los Angeles riots for Granta.

 BODY:
IN MACARTHUR PARK, AT THE edge of downtown Los Angeles, it's 8:15 on a Friday night and a man is dying. Middle-aged, black, wearing white sneakers and a white T-shirt, he lies beneath a eucalyptus tree that stinks as though a hundred horses urinated against it. He has been shot in the arm and left eye. His right eye is open, and there's very little blood.
"Melon shot," says Officer Kessler, meaning the bullet entered the skull and didn't leave. "This guy pulled a knife. Two guys dumped him." Like most shootings, it was over in seconds. 
 Patrol cars roll up, one after the other, silent now, sirens off but lights still flashing. Officers push back the crowd and seal off an area within a circle of festive yellow "Police Caution" tape. Two paramedics duck beneath the tape and try to revive the body, thumping it on the chest -- too late. A pair of tiny red cowboy boots lies a few feet from the dead man's face, left behind as a mother grabbed her child in the panic.
By now there are maybe 20 officers on the scene. Two of them actually saw the murder as it went down, sitting in a darkened patrol car 50 yards away trying to scope out a drug deal. They were powerless to prevent the shooting, but close enough to give chase and make an arrest. The John Doe victim is dead, the suspects have been caught and now there's nothing to do but keep the crowd at bay and shoot the breeze until the paramedics get the body stashed away and the homicide dicks show up; that may be as long as an hour, since detectives knock off at 3 in the afternoon and they'll have to be called from Simi Valley, or somewhere else out in the peaceful suburbs.
This is police work at its simplest: a dead body and suspects, not just caught but identified in the commission of the crime by the officers themselves. For Rivas and Graham, the two young officers who'd seen the murder and made the arrests, this has been a break; they're almost dazed by the luck of it. For the Los Angeles Police Department, in these, its days of unbuttoned uncertainty, life is rarely so straightforward.
MY FIRST ENCOUNTER WITH THE L.A.P.D. CAME back in the early 1980's: Century City, about 10 at night on the Avenue of the Stars. I'd just come out of a movie theater. Suddenly, I was aware of a great procession: limousines, motorcycles, a helicopter overhead, patrol officers on the otherwise deserted sidewalk -- a little eerie. Some very big cheese was making his or her exit from the Century Plaza Hotel. An immaculately groomed patrolman came up and, as his glance took me in, planted a meaty paw in the center of my chest. "Get off the street," he said, and shoved me back. It was the casual nature of both words and gesture, the arrogance of it, I suppose, as well as the hostility, that took the breath away. This was an announcement: I'm in control, I can do with you what I will.
I learned not to be surprised. The hope, even among the white middle class, was that you could deal with the L.A.P.D. by not having to deal with them. They themselves were pretty much oblivious to public sentiment. They followed their chief, the larger-than-life Daryl Gates, and lived and died by arrests; it was a numbers game -- bust this guy, harass that one. They'd kick anybody's butt, especially if you were black or Hispanic, and if you weren't, they might just kick yours anyway.
The L.A.P.D. was regarded as No. 1, not just in America, but perhaps the world -- a paradigm of pro-active paramilitary policing. It made more arrests, over a wider area, 465 square miles, with a force of about 8,000 officers -- fewer per capita than any other major city force. (The New York Police Department had 89 officers per square mile, the L.A.P.D. only 15.) It was the least corrupt. It had pioneered the use of the radio patrol car, owned its own fleet of fancy French Aerospatiale helicopters and seemed pretty much invincible. This myth, bolstered by numerous TV shows and movies, from Jack Webb in "Dragnet" to Mel Gibson and Danny Glover in "Lethal Weapon," was pervasive. You were supposed to be a little frightened, or maybe even more than a little; it was the general idea, it was why the L.A.P.D. worked so well.
Then everything changed. First, in the early morning of March 3, 1991, there was the videotaped beating of Rodney King. Next came the Independent Commission, headed by Warren Christopher, now President Clinton's Secretary of State, then a prominent Los Angeles lawyer. The commission concluded that the L.A.P.D. was racist, sexist, hostile to the communities it served and almost gleefully willing to use excessive force. Christopher also stated that, indeed, the department was corruption-free; and that was it as far as the good news.
Then, on April 29, 1992, came the not-guilty verdicts in the trial of the four officers accused over King, and the Los Angeles riots began. In those early minutes, when Reginald Denny, a truck driver, was being beaten at Florence and Normandie, there was a paralysis of leadership -- so catastrophic that even Gates later acknowledged it. At that critical moment in the city's history, its vaunted police department was perceived to have failed, to have been not just beaten but humiliated.
A new chief, a new black chief, Willie Williams, took over in June 1992. Williams was an appointee from outside the department, quite unthinkable in pre-riot L.A. Williams, previously chief in Philadelphia, was a believer in both community policing and affirmative action, and in the history of the L.A.P.D. a line was drawn, decisive as the Santa Monica Freeway that cuts the city in two: pre- and post-Rodney King.
Gates's style and leadership couldn't have been more attuned to the pulse of Ronald Reagan's America or more blind to the way the city was going. By the 1990's the city had evolved beyond anyone's expectation into a vast polygot community, 40 percent Hispanic, or rather into a welter of different communities, segregated geographically by the freeways, and also by an economic and racial apartheid. Los Angeles was the Ellis Island of the late century, and sections of it had more in common with Charles Dickens's teeming London than the laid-back L.A. of 1960's East Coast imagination.
Like some gas-guzzler, a forceful and unforgiving boat of a Buick, Daryl Gates represented a Los Angeles that had long been overtaken by its own development. He was touchy, egotistical and fond of would-be witticisms that didn't look too clever in print: "The casual drug user ought to be taken out and shot." Or, when speaking to The Los Angeles Times about the deaths of suspects taken into custody with the now-barred carotid artery hold, "We may be finding that in some blacks when it is applied, the veins or arteries do not open up as fast as they do in normal people."
For most of L.A. the greatest thing about Willie Williams during his first 18 months in office was, precisely, that he wasn't his predecessor. No one could quite believe it. Williams was black, important and he didn't stuff his foot in his mouth every time he spoke. The city fell in love with him, even if police officers couldn't quite understand where he was coming from. He was given a clear agenda: to re-establish a bridge between management and the rank and file; to regain the eroded confidence of the community; to rebuild political and economic support in the city; to modernize and computerize a technologically backward department; and to find money to solve a deadlocked pay dispute and thaw out a frozen promotional structure; and, most important, to institute community policing.
"Quite an agenda," says Willie Williams at Parker Center, L.A.P.D. headquarters, named after Bill Parker, chief from 1950-1966, the man who created the myth of the L.A.P.D. as, until recently, we knew it. Now Williams is the city-appointed and self-declared agent of change. "And the process of change is scary, whoever you are," he says, which is to acknowledge that the L.A.P.D. has not danced willingly into the arms of his ideas. He was called in to fix a department in which, when he arrived, he knew not one person.
Where Gates always strutted about in uniform, Williams favors double-breasted suits and polka-dotted silk ties. He looks like an executive and talks about police work like a business. He's wary, articulate, a politician so adept he doesn't quite let you know he is one. "Police work is doing what the people in the city want done," he says. "In Los Angeles that means a safer environment -- criminals off the streets -- and in Los Angeles that means reducing the fear of crime. But policing is also responding to all the other calls -- 85 percent of which aren't to do with crime. That's a struggle for some of our officers. But that's what people want. It's a shift, and it's not just L.A. That's what people across the country are asking for."
Williams is halfway through his first term of five years, renewable for another five at the discretion of the Police Commission, the Mayor-appointed civilian board to whom -- in effect, for the first time -- the chief is answerable. There's also a new Mayor, the multimillionaire businessman Richard Riordan, elected in 1993 not least because thousands of Los Angelenos are terrified by the thought of teen-agers running loose with semiautomatic weapons.
So there is a right-wing, pro-police Mayor and a liberal police chief, the precise opposite of the dynamic that existed for years between Gates and ex-Mayor Tom Bradley. Riordan and his commission are pushing for swifter and more effective change. At least he and Williams talk every couple of weeks, as opposed to every couple of years, as was the case with Gates and Bradley. And, three years after the fact, the proposals of the Christopher Commission are still alive and kicking. Because Christopher provided such a detailed blueprint, and because Williams inevitably got off to a slow start, the pressure is on.
"It's no longer enough that Willie Williams has broad shoulders and speaks well," says Rabbi Gary Greenebaum, first Police Commission president under the Riordan regime. "We have to see results."
Many officers still think of themselves as the Blue Knights of the pre-riot L.A.P.D., yet in some cases they go to work in squad cars that break down, and in precinct houses so infested with rats that showers and lockers have to be located in trailers outside. Fax machines are more or less unheard of. The entire department still boasts only 700 to 750 computers, and late in the day finds itself wilting under an attack of political correctness. Smoking is barred in precinct houses, though old detectives sneak out in pairs for a natter and a guilty puff.
Complaints of sexual harassment and discrimination have become so frequent that the Police Commission lobbied successfully for an independent investigative unit. Under Gates this would have been unthinkable; and Williams himself argued that it sent a chilling message to the 10,000 department employees -- namely that none of them could be trusted to conduct an investigation. Meanwhile, white male officers moan that affirmative action has shifted the balance so far in favor of women and minorities that it's harder and harder for them to advance in the ranks -- as they say, to "promote."
Then there's the O. J. Simpson trial, which has planted the idea that it's perfectly feasible that homicide detectives fabricated evidence -- aren't they, after all, members of the most racist police force in the world? For decades the L.A.P.D. sunned itself in the media; now it's roasting.
Some ask if Williams is in over his head. Currently, he faces a vote of no confidence from his senior officers, the Command Officers Association. All along, they've kicked against the idea of an outsider and have fought Williams's attempts to appoint his own team. Yet, they're frustrated by the absence of a clear decision-making process -- what they are told on Monday turns out not to be true on Wednesday, they argue. Even those sympathetic towards Williams feel he hasn't taken control.
A success at community meetings, he's mistrusted and even disliked in the precinct houses, where officers have no clear sense of what is expected of them by him, or the Mayor, or indeed the city itself. What Los Angeles seems to call for now is a nifty combination of "Robocop" and "Dixon of Dock Green," the paradigm of the friendly British bobby who knew everybody on his beat and always dropped in for a cup of tea. But how do you provide something as unwieldy, disparate and complicated as an entire police department with a new motivation, another soul? Asked if he can pull it off, Williams answers, "Not by myself."
Given the history of the L.A.P.D., the beating of Rodney King was a disaster waiting to happen. Similar incidents had occurred in the past. A plumbing-supply salesman named George Holliday just happened to catch this one on his Camcorder. Joanne Belknap, professor of criminal justice at the University of Cincinnati, says that it crystallized sentiment and provoked a re-examination of the principles of police work, not just in Los Angeles, but nationwide. It isn't just about fighting crime but working with all and sundry to prevent it. "The idea of community policing had been around since the 1970's, and even before that," she says, "but there's a stronger commitment this time, in part just because it was such a long, slow boil to get it going." And even so, the police, especially in the urban areas, had tended to become so isolated within their own cultures, so structured upon institutionalized systems and prejudice that to effect any change is a mighty task; it's as if, she says, they've evolved completely off to the side of those they serve. Throughout the country, big-city departments are looking to L.A. to see how things will play out.
At the moment there's turmoil. The L.A.P.D. is divided into 18 divisions or precincts. To some extent, each functions as a discrete organism; each is a different culture. Only the entrance lobbies resemble each other, with their soda machines, scratched benches, bulletin boards and framed portraits of officers killed in the line of duty. Over a period of months I spent time at three.
ON THE EDGE OF DOWNTOWN, RAMPART division encompasses only eight square miles and is the most densely populated of any in L.A. Estimates of that population vary between 350,000 and 750,000. This is the city's clearinghouse for immigrants, legal and not. There are Salvadorans, Guatemalans, Mexicans, Koreans, Cubans, tourists, thousands of homeless. On a hot night the area teems, and at Sixth and Alvarado it boasts perhaps the busiest crime block in America.
Rampart is the old L.A.P.D., or what's left of it. Coppers here still carry themselves with panache and swagger. They sport close-cropped Marine haircuts. They spend lots of time in the gym. At the desk, bull-necked Officer Vargas stares you down with eyes that bulge and brood. He leans back, sucks a soda, jams a black-currant lollipop in the side of his mouth and announces, in tones of utter boredom, "Nexterooni." He conveys the sincere doubt that your tale will merit addition to his own personal "Thousand and One Nights." He has heard them all.
The canteen is called, with knowing humor, Cafe Rampart. Trophies won by the baseball, football and weight-lifting teams gather cobwebs on top of a coffee machine. R-A-M-P-A-R-T is spelled out on the wall in neon. A guy with brown eyes, one of those Marine haircuts that's growing out a little, and bushy Michael Dukakis eyebrows doesn't bother to give me a look. "Here comes another member of the liberal press," he says.
At 44, Clint Dona is an 18-year L.A.P.D. veteran. He has spent all of those years in patrol, on the street, and 12 of them here, where younger officers watch him with reverence shading into awe. A former marine, a Vietnam veteran, Dona has won every award the L.A.P.D. has to give, including its highest honor, the Medal of Valor. He has killed two people and been the subject of more "beefs" -- complaints from the public -- than he cares to remember. "There was a time when Internal Affairs knew me by my first name," he says.
Another central finding of the Christopher Commission was that such public complaints, also known as 1.81's, were ineffectively handled. Of the 2,152 allegations of excessive force from 1986 through 1990, only 42 were sustained. That has changed. In 1992 -- the year of the riots -- the city attorney's office paid out about $20 million in awards and settlements for claims brought against the L.A.P.D., and that excluded traffic accidents. It was like a lottery. "These days, the department will take a complaint from Charlie Manson," Dona says, and as a result officers are more reluctant to go out and make arrests. In case there's a beef, it goes into the their personnel file, the "package," and counts against them for promotion. "A lot of guys aren't doing anything. They don't want to get too close."
This argument, not necessarily supported by arrest records, is common at patrol level; there's an almost paranoid sense that management, meaning lieutenant and above, won't back them the way it once did, that the brass is pandering to the liberals, playing politics. That may be all well and good, but it's a game with little or no relevance to the dangerous world the patrol officer inhabits -- the street, where it used to be hooking and booking, and now it's driving and waving.
Not at Rampart, not for Dona. Being out there on patrol in a black and white, listening to the radio, dealing with the public, trying to catch the bad guys -- is the L.A.P.D.'s basic function, its essential function. Yet it's seen by many as a career dead end. To a few, it becomes a mission. "Patrol isn't just cops and robbers," Dona says. "Patrol is helping a woman fix her flat tire. It's holding a guy's hand when he's been shot. This is routine. Rodney King is not routine."
Dona was born poor, in Nicaragua, one of 11 children. His father came to L.A. in 1951 and worked as a dishwasher, then a steelworker. Now he's a minister with his own church up in San Jose.
"I was raised to have as my goal in life to serve others," says Dona. "The example that the Bible gives us. That Jesus gives us. I really believe in the motto of this department" -- to protect and to serve.
He has three children, two girls and a boy. His wife took them with her when she left him six years ago and moved back to Mississippi. The two of them met there while at college. Dona's major was philosophy. "The bottom line was that she caught me screwing around," he says. "I don't blame her. She said, 'You did wrong and I'm gone.' "
Riding to a shooting in progress one Saturday when bodies are dropping left and right, Dona pumps his hand in the air as if he were an engine driver pulling on the whistle of his locomotive. "Yeeeah! This is like the old Rampart. Let's go get some bad guys. Let's go shoot somebody!"
Later he doesn't shoot anybody, but does get a bad guy, pulling a 9-millimeter handgun from beneath the seat of a drug dealer's car and finding $3,000 in the trunk. On another night, after dinner, there's a call to an apartment building off Bonnie Brae, a bad neighborhood. The incident report says that a son, Ruben, is threatening his own mother with a kitchen knife. Ruben comes sauntering down the steps in baggy jeans and a black T-shirt, very casual, ignoring Dona's instruction to put his hands above his head, and, when Dona says it again, louder, 'Get your hands above your head,' he still comes forward.
It is over before it has begun. Ruben moves his right hand toward the waistband of his jeans, whereupon Dona doesn't say anything, doesn't reach for his pepper spray or gun, but springs forward, plants his hands on Ruben's chest and puts him on his back with one swift shove. A moment later Ruben is cuffed and the knife, a vicious-looking six-inch blade, is in Dona's hand.
They say it takes at least 5, maybe 10 years before a cop gets any good, because the street is so utterly different from what they're taught at the academy. Situations are messier, swifter to change, so judgments must be at once decisive and subtle. L.A.P.D. officers have shot and killed in situations where the threat was far less immediate than the one Ruben just posed.
There are 100-plus incidents a year in which an officer fires a gun. Officer Involved Shooting is the unit that has historically investigated all of them, and Williams is under pressure to speed up such investigations and, if necessary, make officers easier to prosecute. Opponents of the present system say Officer Involved Shooting has tended to whitewash cases. And there's a broader issue: who controls the L.A.P.D., not who makes the shots but who calls them -- the Chief or the Police Commission, the Mayor and the District Attorney?
It's the old Gates-Bradley dance, but with changed partners now, and a very different rhythm. This is the kind of thing the L.A.P.D. never used to allow itself to be second-guessed about. Now officer-involved shootings are something else in the melting pot, the difference between a pat on the head and a potential prosecution for manslaughter.
Ruben, meanwhile, is spitting at Dona, spitting at me, spitting at the photographer, spitting even at his own mother. Another patrol car has arrived and one of its occupants, Jim Edwards -- six feet four inches, a surfer who might just have stepped from his board, blond and blue-eyed, altogether like Daryl Gates's dream of what a cop ought to be -- takes the knife from Dona's hand, inspects it, and says with a smile: "This is the weapon that was used to kill Nicole Simpson."
Back at the station Ruben slams himself against the wall, then against the thick wire mesh of the holding cell until his forehead is red and dimpled, and keeps on spitting so copiously that Jim Edwards tapes paper over the mesh. "You don't understand," says Ruben, disappearing behind the paper. "I'm gonna kill your family."
"Yeah, well, I'll go out in a hail of bullets," says Edwards. "Give me a kiss, Ruben. Maybe it'll help me promote. Hey, I'm a white guy."
The next day Ruben files an unjustified 1.81, alleging that Jim Edwards used excessive force during his arrest.
AT RAMPART, SHOOTINGS ARE REGARDED AS AN inevitable part of the job; they're discussed with an enthusiasm that might just be bravura or might even be relish. Rampart is the place if you want to be involved. The police dramatize themselves, and yet they do live in a strange, edgy world. Every cop will say he or she is putting his or her life on the line with every traffic stop; there's no such thing as routine, because you never know. Every cop will talk about the tragedy of attending another cop's funeral, with the riderless horse and the boots in the stirrups backward.
The truth is they do risk their lives, every day. But it's also true that police work isn't all that dangerous. Statistically, it's not as bad as driving a cab in New York City. It's not all cops and robbers, pursuits and blazing guns. Most of the job, Clint Dona says, should involve talking. The true danger is emotional: the long hours, the drinking that can become a problem, the marriages that go down. Dona tells the story of a rookie -- or "boot" -- he trained, a kid who always seemed to be bubbling with energy and life, whose marriage got into trouble, whose package was perhaps not looking quite as promising as it had, who earlier this year climbed over a wall into an abandoned Hollywood Hills estate and "ate the gun." More L.A. cops commit suicide each year than are killed in the line of duty.
ON A SLOW NIGHT, I'M RIDING WITH DONA AND Jim Edwards. It's common practice to rotate officers, not letting partners stay together too long. This follows a scandal in 1981 when two long-partnered officers in Hollywood became known as the Hollywood burglars, staging a series of break-ins at video stores. For months afterward Johnny Carson made jokes like: "My brother-in-law's got a new job. He's a burglar with the L.A.P.D."
The first thing Dona and Edwards do on leaving the station is unhook a fancy little TV camera perched up by the driver's mirror. This, linked to a sealed box in the trunk containing a 12-hour videotape, is part of a new experiment. "So they can beef us," says Edwards. The second thing is to examine the M.D.T., the Mobile Digital Terminal, located on the dashboard, for calls that have been sent their way.
Excluding George Holliday's videotape of the Rodney King incident, nothing made the L.A.P.D. look so bad as the Christopher Commission's release of the transcripts of M.D.T. messages between patrol cars and the station, and between the cars themselves. Dona himself was in trouble when, after the death of two gang members, he tapped in: "No great loss to society."
He ended up going all the way to the top, to Gates himself, arguing that the chief of all people should know what it was like to be quoted out of context. Gates, as so often, backed his man. These days officers are more cautious, less likely to write "Well . . . I'm back over here in the projects, [expletive] off the natives," than "Bye, bye. . . . We're going to Starbucks."
Dona and Edwards were together in a car with two other officers for 23 consecutive 12-hour shifts during and after the riots. They bonded, I say, which makes them laugh a little uneasily. "Yeah, we're like faggots," says Edwards. "Except without the sex." They go and watch Pauly Shore movies together, so they must be close. Edwards thinks of Dona as a brother. "I'd take a bullet for that old man," he says; he's serious.
Dona chats with a group of kids, third graders.
"What kind of gun do you have?"
"A water pistol."
"How did you become a cop?"
"There was this line. I thought they were giving away free cheese."
"Hey, why do they call you pigs?"
"Because they're ignorant."
"Why are you here?"
"Domestic violence. Another domestic violence situation."
"Yeah," says one of the kids, quicker than the rest. "You guys go in. Beat the dad."
At last there's something, three beeps on the radio, a robbery in progress down on Olympic, three suspects and the magic words, armed with a gun. It's a Code 3 call, meaning lights and sirens, and several cars at once speed from different directions. Dona gets up to 60, 70, while at cross streets Edwards hits oncoming traffic with a searchlight.
Now the night has meaning, but then it's the voice of the radio traffic operator again, downgrading the call -- no gun. The car slows, the lights, the sirens go off, and when we get to the strip mall at Olympic and Alvarado, two of the suspects have vanished. Eight officers, all male, have spilled out of four cars and surrounded two men: the remaining suspect, who is cuffed, and the victim, with bleached-blond hair, diamante studs in his ears and blue makeup smeared around tearful eyes.
"What's your name?" says Officer Stout, a real Marine Corps type whose neck is wider than the top of his head.
"My name's Julien, officer," he says.
"He looks like Billy Idol," says one of the other officers.
"Yeah, but he acts like Boy George," says Stout.
Julien is 19.
The suspect has no gun, no stolen property, no evidence. And since the other suspects have vanished, they're going to have to let him go as well; with just Julien's story against his there's no arrest.
In a disbelieving voice, Julien asks why. He doesn't get it. He has just been robbed.
"Whaddya want?" asks Stout.
"I want my stuff back, I want you to arrest this guy."
Stout explains that the suspect didn't have Julien's stuff, and so couldn't be arrested. He asks again. "Whaddya want?"
"I wanna be like you guys," Julien says. "I wanna be able to do just what I like."
It's enough. In this encounter with power, Julien has been whiny and, now, tactless. He has demonstrated lack of respect, and so it begins.
"Hey, you can't," says Stout, standing back, hands on hips. "There's eight studs here and I'm looking at you and I don't see no stud." As Julien turns his head to and fro, Stout gets going in earnest. "Did I say you could move? Stand still you [expletive] faggot. You're a faggot aren't you? You look like a faggot. . . . Hey, you got AIDS?"
This isn't even street justice. Julien is the victim here, the guy who was robbed and thought that calling the L.A.P.D. might actually be a good idea. He got more than he bargained for, because he presumed not to disguise that he was gay and ran up against some cops pumping too much testosterone on a slow night. Suddenly he sinks to his knees, spreads his arms and starts to wail: he has been robbed of all the money he had, $56, as well as his driver's license and his passport; his mother has died, he has nothing to live for, no home to go to. "This is an insane person," Julien says. "I'm a sissy. Let me go. I want to kill myself. I wanna kill myself because of people like you. I've never had any luck going to the cops."
Dona is taken by surprise, not so much by Stout's behavior as by this sudden and awkward revelation of frailty, of another's humanity. Julien repeats that he's going to try to kill himself; easy to believe, he's so desperate and sad. Dona asks where he's from, if he has anywhere to stay. "Is there something we can do?"
"Yeah, kill me," says Julien, and stumbles across the street, toting his one remaining possession, a six-pack of Coke.
Afterward, Dona sags, the fizz all gone out of him. He squeezes his forehead between thumb and forefinger. "That wasn't right," he says.
DARYL GATES had ruled like a despot, with a despot's whim, and in this he was heir to history. James Davis, the L.A.P.D. chief through the 1920's and 1930's, honestly believed that the country would be better off if constitutional rights were forgotten and everything was left to the police. Davis invented the "dragnet," the stopping and looking-over of citizens just to see if they might be suspicious, and was thus the forefather of strong-arm, pro-active policing. He presided over a department that not only sold promotions to sergeant for $500 but was on the take from organized crime. But that was a different era, when movie stars rubbed shoulders with gangsters, who in those days dressed in pin-stripe suits and wore fedoras -- Raymond Chandler's Los Angeles, in other words, not the L.A. of "Boyz N the Hood."
Davis was eventually booted out when some of his officers tried to blow up, quite literally, a private investigator. Bill Parker, a declared visionary, took over in 1950, so stiff and unbending, that Gene Roddenberry, the creator of "Star Trek" and a former L.A.P.D. sergeant, is said to have based the character of Mr. Spock on him. Parker's mission was to create a police force free from graft, which he did, a "thin blue line" modeled on the Marine Corps. He crusaded against integration. He was an alcoholic and in 1959 told the United States Commission on Civil Rights that Hispanic newcomers to L.A. "aren't far removed from the wild tribes of Mexico."
Next came Tom Reddin and then another Davis, Ed Davis, better known as "Crazy Ed," who was homophobic, pulled women off the beat and reassigned them to desk jobs and once asked for funds to buy a submarine for the war on drugs.
Gates, Parker's onetime driver and most devoted disciple, took over in 1978. Officers called him a jerk, but he was a colorful jerk, their colorful jerk. After the infamous carotid artery remark some took to calling their patrol cars "black and normals." And now, one officer says: "It's night and day. When Gates went we went from walking on water to wading in [expletive]."
Many say morale is at its lowest ever. Earlier this year there was an acrimonious struggle for a pay raise, the first in two years. Qualified officers are leaving at the rate of at least 10 a month -- and probably more -- many to take jobs in Simi Valley, Santa Ana and Huntington Beach, neighboring communities that are safer and offer better pay and facilities. "We're like the Bank of America," one officer says. "Training everybody so they can look elsewhere."
There's a sense of a widening separation between command and the working stiffs. Williams protests that he keeps an open-door policy and they say it's a door they'd rather not pass through. They complain that the only time they see him is on TV. One day he might surprise their socks off -- standing up for them as he did over officer-involved shootings -- but the next day, they see him selling out the guys involved in a sexual harassment case.
Being a cop, it's just a job now, they say, it's 9 to 5, not a career. Many have other jobs on the side, running their own security firms or working as bodyguards to movie stars. They say: Guys used to come into the department out of the services. Ask them back then where they'd wanna be in 10 years time and they'd say, "In a black-and-white chasing bad guys." Cops are maybe a little more educated these days, but ask them the same question and likely they'll say, "I wanna be chief of police." The whole game is much more political. It's snakes and ladders. The L.A.P.D. has come down to this: Corporate America versus Patrol.
"THE DIFFERENCE IN THE L.A.P.D. post-Rodney King?" asks Cedric Wilder, arms clasped behind his head, sitting at his desk in the detectives' squad room of the Pacific precinct, where shadings of the "new" L.A.P.D. are coming into view. "I'm here. A black in charge of the homicide section. That's a change." Behind him is a wall of wooden cabinets holding the "murder books," case histories of every homicide in the precinct in the last three years, row after row of three-inch blue plastic binders. On his waistband is a badge, a beeper and a 9-millimeter Beretta, on the butt of which one of his daughters has stuck the plastic label "GUN."
Wilder, who decided to become a homicide cop after his own father was robbed and murdered, has six detectives under his command. Affirmative action may have been a deciding factor in his getting the job, but he's anxious to point out that he's very good at it. At Pacific, the clearance rate for homicide, the percentage of cases solved, is more than 80 percent, compared with around 20 percent for all other investigated crime. "If you get mugged or robbed, well I'm afraid that's rough," he says. "But if you get killed, you can pretty much rest assured we're gonna catch the guy." He earns about $81,000 a year, including overtime.
Pacific homicide cops dress and carry themselves with a theatrical panache. The suits are Italian, the silk ties like explosions in a paint factory, the dialogue top-notch Hollywood. This is police work at a different level, where crime, celebrity and cops all get mixed up. Marcia Clark, the chief prosecutor in the Simpson case, drops by for a chat about another case. "Down in South L.A.," Wilder says, "I had to look for my own clippings in the paper. Here people send them to us."
In terms of crime, Pacific is pretty much average, average to slow: 26 murders last year, 75 rapes, 1,154 robberies, 1,347 aggravated assaults. But it can be the weirdest place in the world, says Wilder, because it's so various, and big, covering 28 square miles. There are the Culver City projects, the airport and Venice Beach, where as many as 150,000 might turn out on a busy summer Sunday. There's Oakwood, where movie stars' homes butt up against a small and embattled black and Hispanic community.
Pacific, a microcosm of the city, is mixed; it really does feel worlds away from Rampart. Unlike Rampart, it's not just the hard charge. Pacific has female officers who refer to themselves as "PMS on patrol"; a black patrol officer who was among those who looked on while Rodney King was being beaten; a Cuban ex-ballplayer, and a detective adjutant named Kevin Coffey, given to crying "Outstanding, outstanding," and "Network. Gotta Network." Three years ago he was shot accidentally by another officer. The bullet entered above one hip, traveled across his body and burst into fragments across the other. He almost died.
"As a corporation we're inefficient," says Coffey, who keeps a copy of "A Passion for Excellence" on his desk. "Imagine if officers were paid per arrest." Scary thought.
Officers bustle in an out of the report room, answering calls from their beepers, writing, erasing, rewriting reports in longhand. One entire wall is filled with racks of forms. Forms for use of force, forms for use of firearms, forms for evidence, forms for everything. It can take as long as five hours to process an arrest, a situation Willie Williams agrees is absurd; it keeps officers off the street. The L.A.P.D. exists in a technological dark age. The main computer in the detective's room at Pacific has a 10-megabyte hard disk.
A burly, mustachioed Hispanic officer, Alvaro Ramos, leans up against a desk. He once had a bit part in a movie, "Blind Doll," in which he played -- of course -- a mustachioed Hispanic cop. Ramos is puzzled about life in the L.A.P.D. these days. He says: "Take two officers, came on at the same time, done pretty much the same work. Maybe they're even partners. Their careers can sure go in a different direction."
He looks on, stroking his mustache with nervous fingers, while a female officer schmoozes with a lieutenant at another station. The issue is promotion, and as she stretches out her legs, leaning in close to the phone, she banters: "Will I fly to Hawaii with you? Sure. There's no one I'd rather do it with. Santa Barbara's closer. Dinner might be even more practical."
I ride out with Holly Daniel, one of the Pacific's Senior Lead Officers. The S.L.O.'s job is to organize Neighborhood Watch groups and crime-prevention meetings, to know whatever's going on in her assigned neighborhood, the Palms, near the intersection of the San Diego and Santa Monica Freeways, an area with an increasing problem. Gangsters, pushed out of Oakwood, have been moving in.
"I get one day a week to stay here, try and take care of that, and that's good, but I'd like to have more. That's where this comes in." She gives the Mobile Digital Terminal a not-so friendly slap. "Most of the time we're chasing calls. You want a good response time and you want the same officers in the same car in the same area? The answer's simple. More officers, more money. Of course there has to be the philosophy as well, the commitment to it, but. . . ." She rubs her fingers together. "Lollipops."
Daniel was born in Richmond, has a bachelor's degree and has been with the L.A.P.D. since 1985. She has worked in narcotics and in SPU -- the Special Problems Unit -- and comes to work each morning toting her own laptop computer. In the strip mall she greets the local drunks by their first names and chats about their families before moving them on. She knows all the transients by name, and many of the kids. She has her own stop-by office, on Motor Avenue next to a liquor store, paid for by the community. The property owner lowered the rent and picked up the utilities, and another private donor is paying the phone bill for a year. "I don't want to sound like a jerk about this, but they did it because they liked me. They thought, 'Hey, Holly's bustin' her butt, let's help her bust it a bit less.' This way I feel better, they feel better and I got a lot of info about suspects on my voice mail. Messages to the station tend to drop into a black hole."
There are Neighborhood Watch meetings once a month at the local middle school. "Fifty to a hundred people show up. It's not that great. People tend to want to be involved when they've become a victim. The day they're robbed at gunpoint, boom, they're in there.
"If the public had a clue about what really goes on, they wouldn't moan the way they do. It's like what Jack Nicholson says in 'A Few Good Men.' They public wants things taken care of. They don't want to be robbed or burgled or beaten up. They want it to be done gently and they don't want us to be seen doing it."
Nicholson is the city's best-loved star, not least because he does things every Angeleno can appreciate, like taking a nine-iron to the car of a driver who cut him off, and this is maybe the 9th or 10th time I've heard an officer at Pacific invoke this particular speech from this particular movie. It's almost a mantra, a cry that cops are misunderstood, that they can't do this alone anymore.
ONE MORNING THERE'S A 5:30 A.M. roll call, and 40 officers gather prior to the serving of warrants to murder suspects living in the Marionwood projects. Ramos is there, and his partner, Officer Cordobes, and Holly Daniel, and on a desk in the squad room there's an old copper's dream, an enormous box filled with every variety of doughnut. But this is California, the L.A.P.D. of the New Age, and the doughnuts go untouched.
An hour later, just after first light, in the projects, the detectives and officer go in, and it's all over in a minute or two, without any hindrance or fuss. "Smooth, smooth, smooth," says Wilder, strolling with a clipboard behind his back, looking for all the world like a well-turned-out school inspector, ticking off items on his checklist. "Three out of six. Not perfect, not bad. A .500 average. If I were a ballplayer I'd be earning much more than I do now," he says.
Wilder drives back to the station with Otis Dobine, the lieutenant in charge of detectives and head of ABLE, the Association of Black Law Enforcement Executives. While Wilder is among those weighing whether to stay on in the department, it's clear that Dobine hopes to go much further. He points out that each previous head of ABLE has gone on to make the rank of captain at least.
"The L.A.P.D.'s still healing," he says. "Lotta wounds. Still ain't got scabs on 'em. This is a challenging time for people who can take changes. Maybe a little too challenging for some."
He remembers, as a probationer in South Central, chasing a suspect. The suspect escaped, but the pursuit flushed out an old black who'd been asleep. A white officer whipped the man across the face with his flashlight, while Dobine watched, horrified, knowing this was the kind of thing you kept very quiet about if you were a black probationer and you wanted to keep your job.
In the past, and to a considerable extent even now, prejudice operated to keep minorities out of prestigious posts: narcotics, internal affairs, Officer Involved Shooting (Wilder is the only black ever to work that detail), and Metro, the elite patrol division that includes SWAT. There was a Catch-22: such plum appointments came only if the package was varied and impressive, but the package was only impressive so long as it had some plums in it; minorities found it harder to get that first plum.
Dobine knows there were times when he was passed over because of his race. He's all for affirmative action, and Willie Williams. "The people who want to keep the system the way it is have no idea what it feels like to be discriminated against," he says. "This is the first time ever that there was a black in charge. It's a little different feeling. Now I can laugh. Back then, even in some areas now, they tried to give you the idea that there are mystical talents about doing these specialist jobs. That's a bunch of bull. There are no hotshots."
IN SOUTH CENTRAL LOS Angeles, at 8:15 on a Friday night, the main thoroughfares -- Slauson, Crenshaw, Normandie and Vermont -- are busy with traffic. The sound of gospel singing rises from the neighborhood's many churches. Lights are stacked up in the sky as jets make their approach to LAX. An L.A.P.D. chopper circles loud and low under their path. This is the Los Angeles where there are two gang funerals a week at the mortuary on Crenshaw Boulevard, where the A-frame houses that stand back from the quiet side streets are protected like fortresses with black steel screen doors and black steel window grilles. This is the Los Angeles where, at the end of a weekend, homicide detectives say they sometimes can't even remember which corpse was which.
The 77th division covers 14 square miles, and the murder count for 1994 reached 138. When President Clinton announced the invasion of Haiti, community leaders stood up and asked why the Marines couldn't come here instead; they were serious. Unemployment and poverty, gangs and crack cocaine have mutated a way of life. Many people here don't just hate the police; they hold them in contempt. "The attitude since the riots is, 'Screw you,' " says Sgt. Paul Hernandez. "Now you've gotta sit back and let these guys jack their jaws. They stand there on the streets bulldogging you. Huffing up their chests and staring you down. Used to be just the ex-cons did that. Now it's everybody. Probably it's in the back of their minds. 'You ain't worth [expletive]. We showed you what we could do. We beat the hell out of you guys.' "
Last Monday it was quiet until the Los Angeles Raiders game was over on "Monday Night Football." The Raiders lost, and then "Boom," says Hernandez, "two within five minutes." On Wednesday there was a triple, when a member of a relatively small gang, the 6-Deuce Brims, emptied his 9-millimeter into three members of the Rollin 60's, major leaguers, as their car pulled up at a curb. Members of the Rollin 60's have been calling 77th, announcing that there is going to be payback, big-time. The 6-Deuce Brims will be exterminated. Since then the atmosphere has been a little tense.
Together with Rampart, 77th is known as the varsity of patrol. What might take two or more years in Pacific they learn here in six months, then move on. Coppers tend to be of two types. Few blacks, no surprise, but young guys, fresh out of the academy, full of fire, and the old-timers who can show them the ropes. Hernandez is in the latter category. A big Texan, born in San Antonio, he doesn't so much strut as saunter.
In anticipation of the Rollin 60's tit-for-tat, the neighborhood has been flooded with officers from Metro riding in unmarked cars and extra "Crash" units trying to get guns off the streets. "Most likely it'll be quiet for a few days," Hernandez says. "The 60's are gonna wait until some of this heat goes away." Crash -- Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums -- was formed to fight gangs in the mid-1970's. At Rampart I'd seen two Crash officers line up and search 20 or more 18th Street gangsters who'd been out collecting for a homeboy murdered in Hollywood that same day. "In 77th this would never happen," Sgt. Paul Byrnes, head of Rampart Crash had told me. "Two guys against 20 gangsters? They'd just take off and there'd be a helluva fight if you tried to stop them. I'd need a lot more guys." In Rampart I'd found myself thinking how well defined the job was for Crash, difficult, but at least straightforward.
At 54th and Gramercy there's already a crowd in the street, in front of their houses, wanting to know what's happening, why a helicopter is circling overhead, why there are seven or eight patrol cars cutting off the ends of the street and why cops are creeping around in their backyards. The answer is that the Crash officers are searching for a man seen in the area with a shotgun. Now just about all the neighborhood has come out to watch, and when a young officer, Clausen, unwisely touches an old woman wearing a "Don't Squeeze the Juice" T-shirt with the palm of his hand to suggest she move back a little, she goes off like a rocket: "Don't you push me around, don't you dare assault me!"
The old woman's daughter pitches in, then her friends, screaming abuse, while the old woman herself takes Clausen's badge number, saying, "I'm calling your watch commander, I'm calling Internal Affairs."
"It's every night," says Hernandez. "It's left and right every night."
During the Gates years, black drug dealers were commonly referred to as Vietcong, and now the citizens in post-riot South Central are no longer prepared to accept the L.A.P.D. as an occupying force, however much they may fear or loathe the gangs. The attitude is, show us, prove that you're not the way we think you are. The breakdown of trust seems almost complete.
Crash officers go to arrest a probationed gangster, Damon, on suspicion of rape, and the cuffed Damon stands his ground. Surrounded by 20 or more cops, butting this way and that as he tries to break loose, Damon demands that one of the officers go back into his house and fetch his blue shoes. "I don't wanna be wearing these shoes. Bring me my blue shoes!" He wants to go to jail being a Crip, and there's something both scary and funny in his assumption of just who exactly is calling the shots.
At the 77th the attitude towards community policing isn't cynical, more if only. "They've gotta be kidding," says Hernandez. Down here there's a somewhat different concept of Neighborhood Watch. For fear of gang reprisal, meetings tend to be arranged like clandestine operations out of John le Carre. Hernandez lifts his gear and his briefcase from the trunk of his patrol car, leaving behind roll after roll, perhaps as many as 15 or 20, of that festive yellow tape. Hernandez lives out in West Covina, in the suburbs beyond East L.A. He's looking forward to seeing his wife, his son and his little girl, a 12-year-old, a skater with ambitions to make the Olympics. "Each night when I go home," he says, "about halfway, it's like a ton of bricks just rolls off my shoulders."
IN APRIL 1994 A FEDERAL jury awarded Rodney King $3.8 million in his civil suit against the City of Los Angeles. The Taser stun gun, which had been used by Sgt. Stacey Koon during the botched attempt to subdue him, is now an antique. Spares are impossible to find.
Much of the L.A.P.D.'s myth was smoke and mirrors: the New Centurions, the Blue Knights -- these were excellent P.R., fueled by Hollywood, and if they persist at all it's only in the movies. Its flaws were obvious after the Watts riot of 1965, if anyone cared to look, which Bill Parker, Ed Davis and then Daryl Gates made sure was never too easy. Equally, many of the department's failings have come to be exaggerated in the wake of Rodney King.
For years, the L.A.P.D. storm-trooped along and many Angelenos were, if not happy about the idea, at least tolerant of it, so long as the streets were safe. Well, that doesn't work anymore. If this most crime-aware of cities requires a new L.A.P.D., an L.A.P.C., it will have to provide financial and political support. Understanding the police is an interior journey; to pretend otherwise is to abandon responsibility, which is of course what we mostly try to do.
Cops are the guys with society's bullets; now they're being asked to learn to use Band-Aids too, and the rest of us are having to address the problem of telling them how to apply them. The aim is for a computerized, cost-efficient and caring L.A.P.D., a force of 10,000 officers, of whom 43.4 percent are women (versus 15.3 percent now). Some hope. Willie Williams thinks it will take six to eight years, by which time he hopes the precepts and philosophy of community policing will have been absorbed everywhere. "There'll be a time when we don't even have a name for it," he says.
One afternoon, I place a call to the office of the Police Commission. A woman answers. "They're all out at a meeting in the chief's office," she says. "They're all with Chief Gates right now."
I say, "Don't you mean Chief Williams?"
"Oh, sure," she says. "That must be what I meant."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Pacific precinct, 2 A.M.: Officer Hoskins holds suspects in a car theft. They were later identified as gang members. (pg. 26)l Safety starts in the Rampart locker room. The division is the old L.A.P.D.: officers sport Marine haircuts and still carry themselves with swagger. (pg. 28); Officers Dona, left, and Stout, right, surround Julien, a robbery victim. When Julien complained about the release of one of his assailants, Officer Stout mocked his homosexuality. Above: Rampart officers comfort a woman whose husband has just choked to death. (pg. 29); Officer Hoskins of the Pacific precinct checks for gang tattoos on a car-theft suspect. Right: Friday night, South Central -- a robbery suspect lies wounded near Officer Clements after being shot by a burrito-truck owner. Officers McDonald, left, and McCallum, who call themselves "PMS on Patrol," respond to a domestic dispute. The goal for the new L.A.P.D. is 43 percent women; it's now 15 percent. (pg. 30-31); Rampart officers search an abandoned motel for a murder suspect. The building is just a few blocks from Charlie Chaplin's old mansion. Officer Marty Swann wakes up a homeless man while searching for a murder suspect. He is part of the Crash unit -- Community Resources Against Street Hoodlums. (pg. 32-33)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH RODRIGUEZ/BLACK STAR, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); MURDER (89%); PARAMEDICS (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); ARRESTS (73%); HOMICIDE (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (59%); POLICE FORCES (56%); 

PERSON: RAYNER, RICHARD; KING, RODNEY GLEN; GATES, DARYL F; WILLIAMS, WILLIE; RIORDAN, RICHARD J (MAYOR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



546 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 6; Column 4; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1362 words

HEADLINE: Residential Resales

 BODY:
In the following reports, the "listed at" price is the asking price when negotiations began that ended in the sale. Time on market is from most recent listing to contract.
 
 MANHATTAN 

 CHELSEA $395,000
 112 West 18th Street
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,800-sq.-ft. loft condo; elevator, high ceilings, original yellow pine beams; common charge $385, taxes $2,400, listed at $429,000, 17 weeks on market (Brokers: Delson-Ginsberg; Bellmarc)
 
 FLATIRON $335,000
 108 Fifth Avenue (16th St.)
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,200-sq.-ft. condo in a 9-year-old building; 24-hr. doormen, marble baths and jacuzzi, washer/dryer, 2 exposures; common charge $637, taxes $5,328, listed at $349,000, 8 weeks on market (Brokers: Delson-Ginsberg)
 
 TRIBECA $590,000
 260 West Broadway (Beach St.)
 (American Tread Building)
 3-bedroom, 3-bath, 3,200-sq.-ft. prewar condo duplex; 24-hr. doormen, elevator, dining area, arched windows, 1,600-sq.-ft. of commercial space on lower floor; common charge $844, taxes $15,000, listed at $650,000, 13 weeks on market (Broker: Bascom & Sears)
 
 WEST MIDTOWN $210,000
 106 Central Park South
 (Trump Park)
 615-sq.-ft. studio condo in a prewar building; 24-hr. doormen, concierge, terrace; common charge $470; taxes $2,976, listed at $269,000, 1 year on market (Broker: Corcoran Group)
 
 BRONX
 
 RIVERDALE $175,000
 3671 Hudson Manor Terrace
 (Manor Towers)
 2-bedroom, 2-bath, 1,400-sq.-ft. postwar co-op; 24-hr. doormen, renovated kitchen and bath, terrace, indoor pool, tennis courts, Hudson River view; maintenance $829, 50% tax-deductible, listed at $195,000, 26 weeks on market (Broker: Sopher)
 
 SOUNDVIEW $195,000
 1027 Elder Avenue
 4-family, 40-year-old, semi-attached brick house; 2 bedrooms, 1 bath, dining room in each unit; 1 bedroom, 1 bath hospitality suite in basement; taxes $1,600, listed at $215,000, 17 weeks on market (Broker: Marland)
 
 BROOKLYN
 
 BRIGHTON BEACH $110,000
 2848 Brighton 7th Street
 2-family, 50-year-old, detached house; 2 bedrooms, 1 bath, eat-in kitchen in each unit; full basement, shared driveway, 25- by 95-ft. lot; taxes $1,200, listed at $165,000, 13 weeks on market (Broker: Homes 'R' Beautiful)
 
 PARK SLOPE $515,000
 213 Berkeley Place
 2-family, 4-story brownstone; 5 bedrooms, 2 baths, dining room and laundry in primary triplex; 1 bedroom, 1 bath, eat-in kitchen in simplex; 20- by 100-ft lot; taxes $2,800, listed at $515,000, 1 week on market (Broker: Warren Lewis Realty)
 
 MIDWOOD $322,000
 1721 Avenue O
 5-bedroom, 3-bath, 45-year-old center-hall colonial; dining room, eat-in kitchen, fireplace, finished basement, rear deck; 1-car garage; taxes $1,700, listed at $349,000, 15 weeks on market (Broker: Maryl Real Estate)
 
 QUEENS
 
 ELMHURST $190,000
 94-15 40th Drive
 3-family, 50-year-old detached frame house; 3 bedrooms in primary unit; 1 bedroom in others; dining room, eat-in kitchen, 1 bath in each; full basement; taxes $1,700, listed at $215,000, 13 weeks on market (Broker: Veterans Realty)
 
 STATEN ISLAND
 
 DONGAN HILLS $567,000
 99 Ridge Avenue
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, newly constructed colonial; dining room, den, fireplace, 2-car garage, Raritan Bay view, 100- by 100-ft. lot; taxes $1,400, listed at $595,000, 13 weeks on market (Broker: Vitale-Sunshine Realty)
 
 GREAT KILLS $339,900
 75 Whitman Avenue
 2-family, semi-attached, new center-hall colonial; 3 bedrooms, 2 1/2 baths, dining room, eat-in kitchen in primary unit; 1 bedroom, 1 bath in other; 1-car garage, c/a; taxes $2,800. listed at $339,900, 8 weeks on market (Broker: Linda Nasta Ltd.)
 
 CONNECTICUT
 
GREENWICH $1.41 million
 36 Alden Road
 5-bedroom, 5 1/2-bath brick, 71-year-old English manor; dining room, eat-in kitchen, library, 3 fireplaces, terrace, 3-car garage, 1.67-acre lot; taxes $12,682, listed at $1.675 million, 40 weeks on market (Broker: Preferred Properties)
 
 NORWALK $207,500
 6 Wayfaring Road
 3-bedroom, 2-bath, 39-year-old, aluminum-sided ranch; dining room, skylight, c/a, fireplace, tri-level deck, 1-car garage, .50-acre lot; taxes $3,699, listed at $219,900, 9 weeks on market (Brokers: Prudential Connecticut; William Pitt)
 
 NEW MILFORD $213,500
 114 Old Ridge Road
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 6-year-old wood-framed colonial; dining room, breakfast room, 1.68-acre lot; taxes $3,503, listed at $225,000, 3 weeks on market (Broker: William Pitt)
 
 STAMFORD $510,000
 23 Stamford Avenue
 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 6-year-old, wood-frame colonial; granite foyer, greenhouse/kitchen, c/a, marble bath w/steamroom and Jacuzzi, 2 fireplaces, balcony, 2-car garage, .50-acre lot; taxes $7,740, listed at $529,000, 4 weeks on market (Brokers: Prudential Connecticut; Coldwell Banker/Schlott Realtors)
 
 NEW JERSEY
 
 EWING TOWNSHIP $135,000
 14 Heather Drive
 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 31-year-old ranch; eat-in-kitchen, fenced back yard deck, c/a; taxes $3,394, listed at $135,000, 13 weeks on market (Broker: Richard A. Weidel)
 
 MIDLAND PARK $220,000
 300 Prospect Street
 4-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 60-year-old colonial; 4-car garage, family room, deck; taxes $3,758, listed at $229,900, 7 weeks on market (Brokers: T.P. Mabey; Jenesis Associates)
 
 NORTHVALE $220,000
 372 Sunset Drive
 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 50-year-old colonial; den, eat-in-kitchen, Florida room; taxes $3,944, listed at $229,900, 1 week on market (Broker: Weichert)
 
 WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP $235,000
 276 Hickory Street
 3-bedroom, 1 1/2-bath, 35-year-old colonial; 2 fireplaces, c/a, finished basement, 1-car garage; taxes $3,667, listed at $239,900, 1 week on market (Brokers: Prudential Higgins; Gold Star)
 
WESTCHESTER
 
 NORTH SALEM $465,000
 Old Salem Center Road
 4-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 1-year-old contemporary; dining room, family room, wine cellar, 3-car garage, 2 1/2 acres; taxes $6,200; listed at $499,000, 9 1/2 months on market (Broker: Houlihan/Lawrence)
 
 NORTH TARRYTOWN $426,000
 254 Harwood Avenue
 5-bedroom, 3 1/2-bath, 32-year-old colonial; eat-in kitchen, deck, family room, den, playroom; taxes $8,797, listed at $429,000, 7 weeks on market (Brokers: John P. Streb & Son; Ye Village Realty)
 
 Pelham $470,000
 304 Corliss Avenue
 5-bedroom, 4-bath, 71-year-old colonial; center hall, sunroom, maid's quarters, modern eat-in kitchen, 1-car garage, .25 acre; listed at $499,000, 3 1/2 months on market (Broker: C.S. McClellan & Co.)
 
 WACCABUC $425,750
 5 North Makepeace Hill
 4-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 15-year-old colonial; family room, fireplace, studio, pool, 2-car garage, lake view; 2 acres; listed at $459,000, 4 1/2 months on market (Brokers: Houlihan/Lawrence; Coldwell Banker Schlott)
 
 LONG ISLAND
 
 BAYPORT $149,000
 2 Ridgewood Court
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 60-year-old Cape Cod; dining room, finished basement, fireplace, 2-car garage; taxes $5,700, listed at $151,900, 3 weeks on market (Broker: Prudential Long Island)
 
 BAYVILLE $175,000
 24 Mountain Avenue, 3-bedroom, 1-bath, 64-year-old Cape Cod; eat-in kitchen, fireplace, basement, 1-car garage; taxes $1,800, listed at $189,000, 7 weeks on market (Broker: Coldwell Banker Sammis)
 
 MILLER PLACE $165,000
 339 Pipe Stave Hollow Road
 5-bedroom, 3-bath, 20-year-old farm ranch; dining room, eat-in kitchen, den, 2-car garage; taxes $5,700, listed at $174,900, 8 weeks on market (Broker: ERA Manzoni)
 
 SEA CLIFF $245,000
 86 12th Avenue
 3-bedroom, 2 1/2-bath, 110-year-old Victorian; dining room, eat-in kitchen, attic, finished basement; taxes $1,800, listed at $279,000, 4 weeks on market (Broker: Harmonious Homes)

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Data Update" shows mortgage rates in the region and median housing resale prices from 1991 to 1995. (Sources: HSH Associates, National Association of Realtors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; PRICES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (88%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); TAX LAW (76%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CITIES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (71%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (65%); 

PERSON: HUDSON MANOR TERRACE (61%); WILLIAM PITT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



547 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1740 words

HEADLINE: Deer Problem Defies Easy Solutions

BYLINE: By CAROLE PAQUETTE 

 BODY:
AN increasing number of white-tailed deer is causing wildlife and local officials to grapple with the controversial issue to kill or not to kill.
The standard deer control in New York is sport hunting. But on Long Island many deer are in preserves surrounded by residential areas like North Haven in the Hamptons or Islip on Suffolk's South Shore or in public recreational areas. 
 Proponents of culling herds or eliminating the deer cite ticks, Lyme disease, automobile collisions and environmental problems that make the animal undesirable near residential areas. Opponents are fighting for contraceptive programs or letting nature take its course.
"We've had a deer problem for a number of years," Mayor Bob Ratcliffe of North Haven said. "We are always stuck on how to deal with it. You have the animal-rights people, and then those who want to kill all the deer."
North Haven officials recently counted 425 to 450 deer on the 2.6-mile wooded peninsula. After a survey of its 713 residents the village drew up a two-prong plan for a three-month restricted hunt, beginning at the end of this month, and a hunt next year, to be followed by a contraceptive program to keep the numbers stable.
"Our community is not equipped to handle more than 50 deer," Mr. Ratcliffe said. "I would like to see the numbers come down to 120 before we start an immunocontraceptive project."
A resident, Barbara Wersba, an opponent of the hunting plan, said North Haven was not a proper setting for a shoot. "This is a very drastic thing that is being done here," Ms. Wersba said. "Passions are very high on both sides of the issue. The deer are fine, but there a lot of them. They've eaten my garden, too. But I would put the life of an animal before an azalea bush. We're also concerned about security during the many days of shooting. Our children and pets are at risk."
Neighbors of the Seatuck National Wildlife Preserve in Islip say that 200-acre refuge is the source of their problem. Deer jump over the fence at the preserve or wait for cars to go through the electronic gate. Then, the neighbors said, they roam the neighborhood enjoying the high-protein content of the well-fertilized lawns and ornamental trees.
"They make quite a treat for the deer," said Dr. Robert Parris, a biologist at the Wertheim National Wildlife Refuge in Shirley, adding that there are 102 white-tailed deer per square mile at Seatuck. "The number is incredibly high. It's not increasing, but has been stable for the past seven years. Seatuck recognizes the deer are a problem for the refuge, as well as the neighborhood."
More than 200 residents signed a petition last year asking the refuge to "take immediate action to substantially reduce the size of the deer population in the South Islip community."
A draft environmental study about the deer in November evaluated these six alternatives:
*No action.
*Sport hunting.
*Shooting by workers from the refuge.
*Trapping and transferring deer to other areas.
*Contraception.
*Erecting a 12-foot-high fence.
The preferred alternative was shooting by members of the staff at the refuge because of cost effectiveness and because it would would insure that the sex ratio be equal. Contraception would take too long, the report added.
The period for public comments ends on Feb. 10, after which the regional office is to review the comments before deciding on a final plan, Dr. Parris said. "It's a very charged issue and we expect to get a lot of input," he said. "We expect to see requests for no deer on the refuge. But that's not an option, because the purpose of the refuge is to benefit wildlife, and the deer are native to Long Island."
Controversies over deer heated up in the late 1980's when some Fire Island residents protested what they considered a hunt to curtail the growing deer population. But a naturalist at the Fire Island National Seashore, James Ebert, said that was really a way to provide fresh deer for researchers who had been relying on roadkill.
 In 1992 the seashore began a contraceptive program for deer on Fire Island. A joint effort of the State Environmental Conservation Department, the Humane Society of the United States, the National Parks Service and the Fire Island communities aims to prevent deer from conceiving for one year.
The deer are injected with darts. Of the 70 does that were injected in the spring, eight had fawns. Usually 8 out of 10 would have been pregnant, said Mr. Ebert, who added:
"We know the project works. The problem is in the delivery, blow-darting free-roaming deer. Those eight that got pregnant might not have gotten all of the serum. It's still looking like a great idea. Last fall more does were immunized, bringing the number up to over 130."
The $7,000 annual cost of the project is financed almost entirely by donations from Fire Island communities, said Dr. Allen Rutberg, a scientist at the Humane Society.
The density of deer that the state recommends varies, a state biologist, Mark Lowery, said. "Getting a count is very expensive," Mr. Lowery said. "Most important in Suffolk County is keeping the population at levels that residents in the area can tolerate. In forests 15 to 20 deer per square mile have an effect on the ecosystem. But in some areas people tolerate more. It depends on the culture of the area."
The state, which manages five sites in eastern Suffolk where the deer population is the most prolific, has "a number of tools in its toolbox," Mr. Lowery said. The bow-and-arrow season runs from Nov. 1 through Dec. 31. The firearms season, which began on Jan. 9 and ends on Friday, is valid just on weekdays.
The state instituted the two seasons more than 20 years ago.
"Another tool is the removal, by shooting, of depredating deer that cause economic damage," Mr. Lowery added.
"If you are near any refuge or park the deer will be there," Dr. Parris said. "This year is an interesting one for deer management on Long Island, with all the options. You have the novel approach on Fire Island, where nobody knows how it will turn out in the long run. You have the standard control in the state cooperative areas. And you have some like North Haven that are now seriously looking at the problem."
The trustees of North Haven revised their plans last year after some residents said "bait and shoot" control was inhumane, Mr. Ratcliffe said.
A team from Suffolk County Community College surveyed North Haven and reported that 64 percent of the people favored an organized hunt. The village lifted a ban on firearms and the state issued permits.
Hunters have to be approved by village officials, Mr. Ratcliffe said, and the village, along with other contributors, will pay for the contraceptive program. "The taxpayers know that," the Mayor added. "Everything that has been done in North Haven has been a community-minded project. The residents have decided which way to go."
North Haven also has a law banning the feeding of wild animals. There is no fine, but violators doing so will be held liable in case the village is sued when a car strikes a deer looking for food, Mr. Ratcliffe said.
A temporary change in the fence ordinance, raising the height from 4 to 8 feet, will be in effect until the herd is smaller, and the Village Deer Management Committee will work on education and traffic problems, Mr. Ratcliffe added.
Ms. Wersba said she and other residents were not active in the campaign for animal rights. But, she added, they are concerned about living creatures and they will continue to fight hunts. "We don't want the deer shot, period," she said. "We are working hard to bring immunization to North Haven rather than see the slaughter of hundreds of animals on private property."
A national group, the Friends of Animals, whose members often attend community meetings on wildlife issues, says nature should control herds and faults the state hunting seasons for the overpopulation. "When natural predators kill deer they take the lame and young," a spokeswoman for the group, Dot Hayes, said. "Hunters take trophy animals, leaving more food available. When there is mass killing there is a natural instinct by deer to have multiple births. The state wants to raise the numbers for hunting. Death by disease, cold and starvation sounds pitiful, but it's nature's way of culling the herd."
State parks, which set their own deer policies, are taking natural approaches. Heckscher State Park in East Islip has instituted an education program on feeding wildlife. "Basically," the park manager, Michael Venuti, said, "we address the interaction between people and wildlife. We notice people stop and feed the deer. That gives the deer an artificial food source."
For a viable program, the South Shore between Great River and Islip should be viewed as a whole, he said, adding that deer roaming the 1,657-acre park are transient and more of a community population. "Sometimes people call and complain that one of our deer is in their yard," he said. "But we just tell them the deer here are part of the community. They were here before the houses."
"That it is an issue shows there is a consciousness abroad," Ms. Wersba said. "A generation ago they would have just shot the deer. I see a moral issue here that maybe you shouldn't just shoot whatever gets in your way."
 
Catching Up With a Tally
 THE deer in North Haven are like humans, Mayor Bob Ratcliffe said. "We go to bed," he said, "they go to bed. We wake up, they wake up."
Unlike the typical white-tailed deer, which are nocturnal and begin feeding at dusk, North Haven deer are most active from 7 A.M. to 9 A.M. and 3 P.M. to 5 P.M.
"Our deer are different because they have no predators," Mr. Ratcliffe said. "They roam free during the day. I've pulled into my driveway, and they're lying all over my lawn."
The unusual schedule caused a discrepancy in an aerial count last year. When a company from Florida, Air-Scan, was hired to conduct an infrared aerial count, the experts went up at dusk. They counted 386 deer.
But the chairman of the Village Deer Management Committee, Hank de Cillia, said had seen more of the animals in the daytime.
He was right.
The next day Mr. Ratcliffe went up with the experts for a daytime count. They spotted about 60 additional deer. The village now lists its deer population between 425 and 450. CAROLE PAQUETTE

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the Seatuck National Wildlife Preserve in Islip deer reportedly jump over the fence or wait for cars to go through the electronic gate. (Pg. 1); The deer are easy to spot in Seatuck Wildlife Refuge. (Pg. 12) (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)
 
Map of Long Island detailing concentrations of deer populations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DEER ANIMAL CONTROL (91%); SPORT HUNTING (90%); MAMMALS (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); ANIMALS (89%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); LYME DISEASE (71%); PETITIONS (70%); 

PERSON: PAQUETTE, CAROLE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



548 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 17; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: A SENSE OF PLACE

BYLINE: By Glenn Collins 

 BODY:
YES, there is nothing but controversy over the recently released New Jersey employment and economic data for 1994, provided by the United States Labor Department. And yes, the material is so complex that a simple, helpful, straightforward primer is desperately needed by residents of the Garden State.
Here then, from an elite but fictional panel of economic experts, are some lucid answers to the most commonly asked questions from New Jersey residents: 
 Q. Why do my eyes glaze over instantly when I see the words "New Jersey economy"?
A. New Jersey children are trained from their preschool days that economics is boring, imprecise and incomprehensible.
Q. Why is that?
A. Because economics is boring, imprecise and incomprehensible.
Q. Why, then, should I even bother to read this?
A. As Bill Clinton's campaign team said: it's the economy, stupid. Surely you care about how much money is in your pocket and the level of the state's quality of life?
Q. I do. But why should I care about any so-called controversy?
A. Hundreds of thousands of economists are employed in the state of New Jersey for the very purpose of disagreeing on the meaning of each new statistic released from the government. They make up an important Garden State growth industry and constitute a vital part of the state's economy.
Q. Is the New Jersey economy growing?
A. Absolutely, but maybe not.
Q. How do you explain this discrepancy?
A. Our panel consists of more than one economist.
Q. How is the New Jersey economy linked to the United States economy?
A. In 1789 there was a shotgun marriage between the two, and the state has never quite recovered from it.
Q. How will the ailing bond market react to the new statistical news about New Jersey's 1994 economy?
A. Bonds will inevitably fall, if they do not rise.
Q. All right, all right, so what are these new statistics that everyone is so confused about?
A. The unemployment rate last month was down to 6.1 percent, and employment climbed by 22,000. For the entire year of 1994, the employment rate was down to 6.8 percent from 7.4 percent.
Q. So what, pray tell, is the controversy?
A. The Governor and the state's business leaders and leading academic economists say the new data prove that New Jersey's economy is surging ahead strongly. They see more growth ahead. But regional economists for the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics counter that New Jersey's manufacturing sector is weak. They question the rosy pronouncements of continued economic growth.
Q. How do you account for this difference?
A. Economics is a very creative science.
Q. Exactly what part of the New Jersey economy is the regional bureau worried about?
A. Sustainable recovery and sustainable growth, two important economic concepts.
Q. How are these concepts best explained?
A. With indecipherable charts and graphs.
Q. What do the charts and graphs say about the future of the New Jersey economy?
A. Downward lines will go downward. Upward lines will go upward. The axis will definitely stay in the same place.
Q. Why, then, were the state officials and so many private-sector leaders happy?
A. Consumer spending will be up because the number of unemployed New Jersey residents declined last month by 18,000, while the number of jobholders rose to 3.8 million.
Q. Is this good for the state's economic recovery?
A. Unquestionably it is good, unless it should turn out to be bad.
Q. What are some other, less well-known factors that might have influenced the state's economic recovery?
A. There were those two very generous dollar slot machines in Atlantic City. And then there was the unexpected upturn in the number of New Jersey lottery winners.
Q. How do I understand the concept of job growth in relation to the health of the New Jersey economy?
A. Economists have a simple way of explaining this important interaction. Remember that differential job growth in economic sectors, comprising those strong leading indicators that consist of employment spurts as well as the stabilizing levels that may be expansionary telltales of economic momentum, are, sadly, prone to be ignored. More often overlooked, to be sure, is the pervasive influence of labor-force participation rates, although thankfully the long hegemony of the now-rejected Laffer curve seems to have waned. If it is true that a curious wild card may be played in the fall of the Mexican peso and its complex interrelationship with the post-Nafta environment, there is little concern about the continued implosion of the kind of derivatives that have devastated Orange County in California. Finally, by worrying about the danger of wage-push inflation, New Jersey residents must beware of settling for a mess of microeconomic pottage while they aspire to some sort of macroeconomic pie in the sky.
Q. Come again? I mean, what is the difference between macroeconomics and microeconomics, anyway?
A. A very small "i" in a very large word.
Q. So, what is wrong with New Jersey's manufacturing sector?
A. Absolutely nothing.
Q. No, really, you're a panel of economists. What is wrong with New Jersey's manufacturing sector?
A. Absolutely everything.
Q. How can you disagree on such a fundamental issue?.
A. This is the essence of economics.
Q. Why is the New Jersey economy so hard to understand?
A. There is a pervasive and dangerous conspiracy against New Jersey residents abetted by other states like New York and California, which insure that New Jersey is perpetually the butt of jokes on television and in the movies. These conspirators demean New Jersey's refinery corridor, and blatantly strive to obfuscate the workings of the state's economy by mocking New Jersey's selfless economists who work so tirelessly to explain the Garden State's economic Zeitgeist.
Q. What is economists' position on continuing inflation in the Garden State?
A. Economists are no strangers to inflation.
Q. How will service-related industries be affected by the new labor statistics?
A. The prospect for continued employment among economists is very strong.
Q. How can the Governor distract New Jersey residents from being concerned about the state's economy?
A. Public opinion polling suggests that the most popular way would be to declare war on New York State. Failing that, the Governor should tax the tax on the tax that taxes all the New Jersey commuters working in New York.
Q. Can I change the subject for a moment? Why am I always the one who has to appear dumb, by asking such idiotic questions?
A. Because you're just the "Q" person.
Q. But why can't I give any answers?
A. Why, you can, if you will simply let the "A" panel ask you a question.
Q. Go ahead.
A. Thank you.
A. All right, "Q" person, the question is this: What conceivable reason could there be that might possibly explain why you keep asking such an inexhaustible supply of questions?
Q. Why, it's the economy, stupid.

GRAPHIC: Drawings: (Illustrations by Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TRENDS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); BONDS (72%); BOND MARKETS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (60%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



549 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 2; Page 6; Column 6; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMICS OF DANCE;
City Center: A Bargain

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In his article "Dancing Precariously on the Bottom Line" [Jan. 1], Peter Passell notes that City Center "requires dance troupes to bear the entire financial risk of an engagement" and compares City Center to the nonprofit Joyce Theater. These statements do no justice to City Center or the troupes that perform here. 
 City Center is, like the Joyce, a nonprofit theater. It is also a city-owned institution, for which the city provides a partial operating subsidy. City Center does not "present dance"; the dance companies present themselves, with all the attendant risks and benefits (they design their own marketing, choose their own repertory and receive box-office ticket sales).
City Center does, however, underwrite more than 50 percent of the actual operating costs of the theater space during their engagements. For the Alvin Ailey Company, a resident company of City Center that performs four weeks each December, this translates into close to $125,000 of direct support, making City Center a major underwriter of the troupe's season.
Furthermore, the contract at City Center for Local 1 of the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees specifically favors dance in its work rules. City Center also pays all the costs of a subscription campaign, which brings new audiences to the companies and from which the companies receive all ticket income and other services and benefits, including free rehearsal space and production assistance.
The companies are also paid by City Center to participate in our outreach education programs, giving them additional income and exposure by bringing dance to thousands of students across the five boroughs.
For all this, and to cover the majority of our operating costs, we too must raise funds from corporations, foundations, individuals and government sources. It is extremely costly for dance companies to produce a New York season. Self-presenting at City Center is, however, much less costly than in any other Manhattan theater of comparable size.
 
JUDITH E. DAYKIN
New York
 
The writer is executive director of City Center.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (85%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (85%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY CENTER CITY CENTRE RESTAURANTS PLC (91%); CITY CENTER (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY CENTER CITY CENTER (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (85%); NEW YORK, USA (85%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; FINANCES DANCE (92%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); THEATER (90%); DANCERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TICKET SALES (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (74%); FILM DIRECTORS (74%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: ALVIN AILEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



550 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1702 words

HEADLINE: A Prophet of Financial Doom Who Was Right

BYLINE: By SYLVIA NASAR 

 BODY:
MEXICO'S surprise devaluation of the peso last Dec. 20 was not altogether a surprise. Around Washington, economists who were watching Mexico had been warning that such a step was all but inevitable -- sometime. One prominent advocate of devaluation said, the day it was announced, that it was time for the "smart money" to move into Mexico.
But what the economists failed to anticipate was the financial explosion that followed: a free fall of the currency; a mass exodus by investors from markets as far-flung as Buenos Aires, Bangkok and New Delhi, and a very dark cloud over the previously bright prospects of a half-dozen Latin American countries. Referring last week to the biggest financial meltdown in recent memory, Stanley Fischer, the deputy managing director of the International Monetary Fund, admitted to a crowd of 150 economists who wanted to know what had gone wrong: "Everybody underestimated the reaction of the capital markets." 
 Not quite everybody. Guillermo Calvo, an economist at the University of Maryland and a former senior adviser to the I.M.F., was the most prominent of the pessimists. For most of last year he had, in fact, been issuing dire warnings. Mexico was sitting on a financial powder keg, he argued, and America's firefighting equipment -- a $6 billion insurance fund -- was woefully inadequate.
More a soft-spoken theoretical economist than a policy showboat, Professor Calvo has spent much of his career, as one admirer put it, "thinking beyond the conventional wisdom." At a seminar at the Brookings Institution last April, for example, Professor Calvo argued that a devaluation would shatter confidence. "Devaluation . . . may sow the seeds of destruction. Authorities would have revealed their taste for discretionary policy and people may come to believe that it could happen again." If a devaluation became unavoidable, he added, how it was handled would be paramount. Devaluation taken without prior consultation and support from Mexico's "Nafta partners, may . . . prove to be a poison pill."
The only way to prevent an all-out run against the peso, he said, was to obtain the full backing of the United States in advance. "It is imperative that Mexico obtain ample support from the U.S. Treasury (the numbers recently seen in the press look rather small), making it perfectly clear that the support would be automatic."
Like Federal deposit insurance in the United States, the professor reasoned, a big credit line backing the Mexican Government would reassure investors. If the line were big enough, a run would be averted and the line would never have to be tapped. Otherwise, he said, investors -- whose faith in the Mexican Government had already been shaken by the Chiapas rebellion -- would take a devaluation as a sign that the Government couldn't be trusted to defend the currency in the future. The fear of further declines in the peso would become a self-fulfilling prophecy.
"ONLY a few people like Professor Calvo anticipated the magnitude of the change in confidence and that's the magnitude of the risk," says Nancy Birdsall, executive vice president of the Inter-American Development Bank. "Everybody talks about volatile financial markets, but we were all surprised by the complete collapse of confidence." She adds: "People were listening to Calvo, but they weren't listening hard enough."
Before the devaluation announcement, there was apparently little advance consultation between Mexico City and Washington. The I.M.F. -- the world's watchdog for exchange rate crises -- was notified only hours before. The backup credit, $6 billion, turned out to be a fraction of the size the United States Treasury later decided it needed to be -- $60 billion. It took weeks to appreciate the sheer scale of the problem.
Professor Calvo's pessimistic view was based largely on two observations.
First, there were huge pools of highly liquid capital that could leave Mexico at a moment's notice. "The money supply had increased tremendously since the beginning of 1990, when the reforms began," says Professor Calvo in an interview. "I found that very suspicious and dangerous in principle. The peso did not have enough backing." He adds: "It's like taking the dollar off the gold standard."
Second, Mexico's Government did not have anywhere near the credibility with investors of, say, an Italy or a Britain. The relatively large difference between yields for dollar and peso assets reflects that lack of trust. Besides, the rationale for adopting a relatively fixed exchange rate, which Mexico did in 1990, was to show investors that the Government meant to keep its promises, particularly to hold down inflation.
"Imperfect credibility completely changes the set of effective policies," said Professor Calvo last spring, which is his way of saying that governments that enjoy lots of trust can get away with more than governments that don't. He likens a country like Mexico announcing it was changing its exchange rate to "somebody freezing and striking a match to get warmer. You wouldn't do that if you were sitting on a keg of gunpowder."
THE peso crisis wasn't the first danger that Professor Calvo spotted early on. In the early 1990's, when most academics were saying that capital needed to flow from North to South and Wall Street was turning euphoric about Latin America, he and fellow researchers cast a jaundiced eye on the torrent of capital pouring into poor countries. A good chunk, he admitted, was due to the free market reforms that were being adopted in most of Latin America. But at least half reflected the recession and low interest rates in the United States and other industrialized countries. With a recovery -- and a rise in interest rates -- in the United States, the region had better be ready, Professor Calvo warned. That was exactly what hit Mexico in late 1993 -- and one of the elements that set the stage for the current crisis.
To friends and colleagues, Professor Calvo's acuity is no accident. He is originally from Argentina, which has been battling high inflation and capital flight since the 1950's. There have been a number of major stabilizations: two in the 1940's, three in the 50's, two in each of the following decades. There have also been lots of ministabilizations as well as runs on the currency.
"I think about crisis all the time," says Professor Calvo, laughing. "It comes naturally to an Argentinian."
Professor Calvo's theoretical work revolves around the issue of credibility and how its partial or complete loss affects the outcome of different policies. He is an advocate of the rational expectations revolution, led by pioneers like the economist Robert Lucas at the University of Chicago. Professor Calvo "used their ideas to think about the real world, in particular the real world of high inflation countries," says Carlos Vegh, an economist at the I.M.F. who is occasionally a co-author with Professor Calvo.
How does Professor Calvo see Mexico's future? Everything, he says, depends on whether Washington and Mexico City will get things right in the next weeks. Getting things right, in his view, involves adopting loan guarantees quickly, setting the right conditions for the guarantees, and not being over-optimistic about how quickly the peso will recover.
"Mexico is on the verge of default," he says. "If they don't get support and they try not to default, they would have to print bonds. The 'pacto' -- Mexico's social contract among business, labor and government -- would be destroyed. Any attempt to freeze wages is hopeless. They would lose control of the monetary side; people would flee out of pesos into the dollar and you would have all the elements of hyperinflation."
If Mexico defaults, the fallout would be far more difficult to contain than that of the Latin American debt crisis in 1982, because instead of a handful of large banks the investors would be countless individual bondholders.
If, on other had, Washington and Mexico City get things right, Professor Calvo says, "I'd be optimistic. Possibly Mexico would be more competitive;, exports would be stronger and the trade deficit would shrink. Provided there is a peaceful atmosphere in the markets, in six months capital could come back."
 
 
 
AND ONE WHO SAW PROFIT
 Among the few Wall Street advisers cautioning investors in Mexico last year, Jim Grant, editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, was certainly the wittiest. He wrote this last March.
ELECTION year in Mexico is a time for democratic tradition, of which the greatest is that the governing party always wins. A second great electoral tradition in Mexico is the devaluation of the peso. It has been devalued against the dollar in each of the past three election seasons -- 1976, 1982 and 1988. As the 1994 election is only five months away, investors might profitably ask if Mexican history could repeat itself.
Checking up, we found no evidence that the holders of some $42 billion in foreign investments were conscientiously hedging themselves against the risk of expropriation. However, with a little application an investor can find a tailor-made put on the peso, now trading at a rate of 3.23 to the dollar. Because the peso has been stable for so long and because the options-pricing software of even the bulge-bracket firms is unacquainted with Mexican financial history, the theoretical price of an at-the-money six-month put, struck at four pesos to the dollar, is very close to zero.
Two derivatives desks to which we spoke quoted a price of 0.7 percent. Another -- none would be named -- quoted 0.18 percent. In other words, at the lower price, one could control $1 million in pesos for $1,800. If the peso weakened to four to the dollar, the implied profit per option at the end of six months would be $192,500. That would amount to a return of more than a hundredfold for betting on historical precedent.
(At the current rate, 5.7 pesos to the dollar, one of these puts purchased six months ago -- if they had been available then -- would have yielded more than twice as much profit, $433,000.)
(Reprinted with permission from The Interest Rate Publishing Corporation,  1994.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guillermo Calvo says he "thinks about crisis all the time." (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH, AND MEDICAL) CARRIERS (51%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (51%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (51%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (51%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); INDIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; CREDIT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID DEVALUATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); TRENDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (65%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: NASAR, SYLVIA; CALVO, GUILLERMO (PROF) GUILLERMO CALVO (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



551 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: January 15-20

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Once Again, the Fickle Market Loses Its Cool
Here we go again. Just one short week ago, the official word was: a slowing economy, no Federal Reserve rate rise in the offing, everything cool for the foreseeable future. The stock market loved all this, with the Dow industrials leaping nearly 50 points on Friday the 13th. Things stayed cool for a few days, but then came news that the nation is headed for its biggest annual trade deficit in seven years, sending the dollar to a 10-year low against the German mark. Also added to the mix were figures on things like industrial production, housing, consumer confidence and factory use that spelled strength -- and thus, with the usual perversity, danger to the markets. Not to be ignored, of course, were economic ripples from the Japanese earthquake. When the dust cleared, the Dow had given back 46 points on Thursday and 12 more on Friday. 

Painful Medicaid Math
Betsy McCaughey was given some nasty math homework, but she churned it out. Governor Pataki asked Ms. McCaughey, his Lieutenant Governor, to come up with $1.2 billion in Medicaid cuts, and she rose to the challenge, calling Medicaid "the intersection of economics, ethics, science, medicine, public policy and politics." Last week she itemized the pain: big cuts for hospitals and nursing homes, limits on home services for the elderly. Too painful? No, some say, New York's Medicaid program, the nation's most generous, is too fat. Yes, say others, New Yorkers don't need a tax cut that badly.
 
Don't Sleep and Drive
A trucking-industry spokesman says there's no reason to require truckers to have 12 hours off between shifts because, well, they might not sleep much anyway. Hey -- why pay them more than a few dollars? They might not spend it. True enough, beds have yet to be equipped with time clocks. Most people, though, have the option of getting a decent sleep; truckers must be given only eight hours between shifts. That, says the National Transportation Safety Board, is not enough. In a study out last week, the board said truck drivers who nod off at the wheel are a factor in up to 1,500 traffic deaths a year (the industry disputes this). In the 30's, when the eight-hour rule was born, truck refrigeration was rare, and pressure was on to keep food from spoiling. Times, the board noted, have changed.
 
Some Good Things Aren't Free
Most New Yorkers, if asked to pay a penny to enter Central Park, would resent it bitterly -- it would burst the image of glorious freedom attached to that priceless oasis. But it isn't free, of course -- it costs a lot to keep up, and budget cuts have greatly reduced the maintenance staff. So last week the Parks Commissioner, Henry Stern, had another idea: add a small tax -- $100 a year or so -- for people who live around Central Park, raising perhaps $5 million within a few years. Of course, as real estate listings would quickly show, New Yorkers already pay a big premium to be near the park. A thornier issue: will other parks, not surrounded by high-rent districts, be forgotten?
 
Banking, Redefined (Again)
Banks and their cousins are still feeling unsteady as the sand shifts rapidly under their feet. As mutual funds grabbed a lot of the money that used to land in passbook accounts, banks had to branch out, and one way was into annuities. These, they reasoned, were part of the "business of banking" as defined by the age-old laws. Insurance companies, with troubles of their own, tried mightily to protect this turf -- to no avail. Last week the Supreme Court said banks could keep selling annuities. Banks have already sold billions worth of annuities, but with this go-ahead that should grow fast -- as should the alliances between banks and insurers who want to stay in the game.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Earthquake Economics
Forget for a moment, if you can, the human disaster in Japan. Some catastrophes have a distinct economic impact, and that clearly applies here. For one thing, the huge spending needed to rebuild Kobe could help lift Japan out of a lingering recession (though of course that's an awful way to get this lift). But that, in turn, could push up interest rates worldwide, as deficit spending in Japan soaks up cash that might have been invested abroad. Also, great uncertainty now surrounds the business of supposedly earthquake-proof construction: many new bridges and buildings in Japan are billed as being able to withstand a quake that's 7.9 on the Richter scale (the severity of the devastating 1923 Tokyo quake), but a lot of them didn't last week, in just a 7.2 quake.
 
U.S. News Invades Mexico
American politics and policy invaded a fragile Mexico last week, doing what bulls tend to do in china shops. The week began with a vote of confidence as investors bought $400 million in Mexican Government bonds. But this calm was shattered quickly -- by Washington's squabbling about that crucial $40 billion in loan guarantees, with the possibility that "killer amendments" would be attached to them, and by threats of rising United States rates, which would lure capital away from Mexico. The result: the Mexican stock market and the peso were battered for several days until they stabilized on Friday.
 
COMPANIES
 
Low-Fat Goes Straight
You can almost hear Woody Allen, in "Sleeper II," marveling that in the 90's people really believed a high-fat diet was dangerous. Why, back in January of '95, even Frito-Lay, which owned the nibble market in those days, said it would invest $225 million in low-fat products, convinced that they would grow to a third of its multibillion-dollar business. In making this plunge last week, Frito-Lay said it saw a "huge mainstream audience" for such products. And Frito-Lay is nothing if not mainstream -- it has 43 percent of the "salty snack" market, leaving its nearest rival with a mere 6.5 percent crumb. But it's got a high-calorie battle on its hands: now, just 4 percent of snack foods are low-fat.
 
Big Blue and the Judge
By 1945, when Roosevelt died, pre-baby boomers had the feeling that he'd always been President. Just think what I.B.M.-ers must think of Judge David Edelstein. He's been hovering over the company as long as most of them can remember -- since, no doubt, before many of them were born. The issue dates to a 1952 antitrust complaint -- the days of punch cards (surely gathering dust in some computer museum). The Justice Department reached a settlement with I.B.M. in 1956, with Judge Edelstein overseeing it, and many times since, I.B.M. has sought to get him off the case, saying he treated the company unfairly. That antique settlement, I.B.M. insisted, was irrelevant to today's technology, but the judge always refused to lift the pact's restrictions. Last week, though, I.B.M. finally got its way: a Federal appeals court removed Judge Edelstein, who at 84 has served 44 years, the longest of any Federal judge.
 
An Anti-Newt Hot Line
At a time when most unrepentant liberals seem to have vanished from the face of the earth, a company would have to be crazy to try to attract customers by trumpeting its liberalism. But then there's Working Assets, the long-distance company that is unashamed of its activist stance and regularly offers free calls to Congress. Last week, Working Assets took on Newt Gingrich, calling the Gingrich manifesto a "Contract Against America" -- not only blowing its own liberal horn but inviting callers to do so too. It placed full-page ads offering "Free Calls to Stop Newt," even offering 10 minutes of free calls to non-customers (this offer expired on Thursday).
 
A Billion and You're Out
Anyone who can defraud General Motors out of $436 million is no ordinary criminal -- certainly smart enough to stay out of jail, even live well, after being caught. John McNamara has proved that. Mr. McNamara, the Long Island car dealer who came up with some highly creative bookkeeping to pick G.M.'s pocket, agreed to testify in a bribery trial that, considering the staggering sums he stole, can only be described as minuscule potatoes. The officials in that trial got off recently, while in return for his testimony, Mr. McNamara never went to jail, kept nearly $2 million in assets and started a new business. But with all the tough "three strikes" talk, he'd better watch out: If he steals $436 million from G.M. two more times, he's going to be in real trouble.
 
A Mini-Van Overdose?
Uh-oh. Do Americans, at long last, have enough of Detroit's mini-vans? Are rising rates taking a toll? Ford's Windstar has been a big hit for the past year, but dealers now have just too many of them, so on Thursday Ford said it would stop production for a week -- and on Friday said, No, maybe it'll be two weeks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A derailed passenger train in Kobe (Associated Press)
 
Graphs showing daily closes for the Dow Jones industrial average for Jan. (Source: Datastream), some proposed Medicaid reductions by Gov. George E. Pataki's adviser and daily closes for the Mexico Bolsa stock index for Jan. (Source: Bloomberg Financial News)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); NURSING HOMES (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); ETHICS (66%); AGING (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (56%); GERMAN MARK (55%); 

PERSON: BETSY MCCAUGHEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



552 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 557 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH;
In Trade Woes, An Echo of Reagan Era

BYLINE: By Floyd Norris 

 BODY:
ONE of the biggest economic surprises in 1994 was the trade deficit. It was supposed to narrow last year. Europe was recovering from its recession, and American industry was lean and mean after waves of cutbacks.
But it didn't happen. Trade deficits are back to the horrible levels of the 1980's, when an overvalued dollar devastated American industry. To be sure, exports did rise to record levels, but imports went up even more. The trade deficit for 1994, including services as well as goods, will be more than $100 billion, more than twice the 1992 level. 
 It seems likely that the import bulge is one of the indicators convincing the Federal Reserve that the economy is running too strong for its own good. Certainly, the Fed seems determined to raise interest rates again, as was seen by the drumfire of comments last week, and will probably do so next week. At some point -- and the retail sales figures make one think it may already be happening -- the Fed's efforts to raise interest rates will start to slow demand, for imported products as well as American-produced ones.
The trade problem is starkest in manufactured goods, that is to say trade leaving out services, energy and agricultural commodities. Because monthly figures can gyrate, and because there are seasonal factors, a good way to look at the figures is on a 12-month basis. It used to be that the worst performance ever was a deficit of $142.7 billion, set in the year ended October 1987. By February 1992 -- thanks in large part to recession here as well as a falling dollar -- the deficit had been cut in half, to $65 billion.
But since then, manufacturing exports have been growing much more slowly than imports, currently at about 10 percent a year for exports and 15 percent a year for imports. The result has been a soaring deficit. The manufacturing deficit broke the old record in October, and the November figures, released last week, put it at $152.4 billion.
In assessing the reasons for the disappointing performance, it is tempting to look at imports, and just say Americans are spending too much. Slowing the economy ought to do something about that, and that is probably how the problem will be addressed. But that might not be neccessary had different policies been pursued a decade ago. Then, the Reagan Administration -- with the consent of a Democratic House of Representatives -- followed a very loose fiscal policy at the same time the Fed kept money tight and produced sky-high interest rates.
One result of that was a soaring dollar. Many American exporters, particularly in the machine tools industry, simply went out of business. Now, the dollar is more competitive, and so is American industry. But companies that might have prospered are gone. Not only are they not exporting, but the goods they might have made must be imported. The developing countries have been taking in lots of capital goods imports in recent years -- that may slow now if Mexico's problems scare investors -- but the United States is getting a smaller share of that business than it would have a decade ago.
There's not much to be done about it now. But it can serve as a reminder that letting currencies get too wildly overvalued or undervalued levels can have economic effects that endure long after the currency levels have become more reasonable.

GRAPHIC: Graphs showing the trade deficit and annual rate of increase in manufactured imports and exports for 1993 and 1994.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: REAGAN ADMINISTRATION (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (76%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); MACHINE TOOLS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); RETAIL SALES (67%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



553 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MADISON SQUARE;
Prince George: Old Arena, New Battle

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
As the city's largest welfare hotel in the 1980's, the Prince George was a malignant presence on East 28th Street, its social ills spilling from the graffiti-scarred building onto the surrounding streets day and night.
Drug dealing, muggings, shoplifting and prostitution were commonplace. Co-op owners, who were unable to sell or rent their apartments, fled anyway. Merchants moved out as soon as their leases expired. On the east side of Fifth Avenue between 27th and 28th Streets, every ground-floor business -- except Chemical Bank -- closed in the first half of 1986. 
 In the late 80's, the city removed welfare families from the hotel, and the community exhaled. Merchants returned, restaurants opened and real estate picked up.
Now, Common Ground, a nonprofit corporation, plans to reopen the hotel as a "mixed-use" residence for the homeless and single working people who earn between $13,000 and $30,000 dollars annually.
And no one is surprised by the clamor of opposition the proposal has ignited. Least of all Rosanne Haggerty, Common Ground's executive director, who successfully overhauled another notorious hotel, the Times Square on West 43rd Street.
"The fear level is pretty high, but I understand it," Ms. Haggerty said. "The Prince George was a nightmare for the families that lived there, and it was catastrophic for the neighborhood."
Despite opposition from some businesses and local residents, Community Board 5 voted on Jan. 12 to support the proposal, basing its decision largely on Ms. Haggerty's success at the Times Square, the model for the Prince George.
"She has kept her promises," said the board's chairman, Nicholas Fish. "And she has been recognized by two successive administrations as developing exceptional affordable housing."
According to Deputy Mayor Fran Reiter, the Giuliani administration supports Common Ground's goal of "mainstreaming needy populations who have demonstrated a readiness" to return to society.
But, she added, "We have not yet signed off on this particular deal. The Department of Housing Preservation and Development is working with her now."
The proposed $28.5 million project, which would be financed by city, state and private funds, calls for the creation of 416 300-square-foot studio apartments with private kitchens and bathrooms. Half would be set aside for the formerly homeless -- "100 with some history of mental illness, 63 from the general shelter population, and 45 with AIDS," Ms. Haggerty said.
The plan also calls for a network of on-site social services, including a medical clinic, for tenants. People who work in the community would be given priority for the remaining 208 apartments.
Ms. Haggerty, who is moving to secure a mortgage from Resolution Trust Corporation, said she realizes she has a long way to go before winning over members of the business community who fear that the project would undermine the area's modest economic revival and threaten the nearby gift, tableware and toy industries.
"We believe there may be a use more compatible with the revitalization we're seeing," said Jane Crotty, executive director of the 23d Street Association, a conglomeration of businesses. "Buyers come here from all over to do business. The fact is, there may be a need for hotel accommodations in this area." M.W.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new life is in the works for the Prince George Hotel, on East 28th Street. (Chang Lee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRINCE GEORGE HOTEL (NYC); COMMON GROUND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND CHEMICAL BANK (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCE GEORGE HOTEL (NYC); COMMON GROUND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOMELESS PERSONS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY HOMELESSNESS (88%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FAMILY (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); AIDS & HIV (72%); SHOPLIFTING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); MENTAL ILLNESS (50%); 

PERSON: WILLIAMS, MONTE ROSANNE HAGGERTY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



554 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 23; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: At Work;
Promotions and Family Matters

BYLINE: By Barbara Presley Noble 

 BODY:
WHEN he went to work in 1987 for the Agricultural Marketing Service, an Agriculture Department agency, James Patterson may not have realized he would find his true calling, but find it he soon did. His job as an agricultural economist, international trade issues a specialty, frequently took him to Canada and Mexico. He discovered he enjoyed travel and working on the road. So he set off on the career track offered by the Government, transferring in 1990 to the Foreign Agricultural Service, another unit of the department, intending, after the requisite tests and waiting period, to be promoted to the officer category that would allow him to serve abroad.
Mr. Patterson sailed through the exams in early 1992, but instead of heading off on the briny for foreign lands, he's still at his old post in Washington, reduced to a superannuated clerical worker, he claims, while the Agriculture Department mulls over a disability discrimination complaint he filed against it in late 1992 with the agency's equal employment office. 
 At issue is whether his promotion can be denied because a member of his family has a chronic medical condition. Mr. Patterson argues it cannot. The Civil Rights Division of the Justice Department has written a letter to Agriculture citing the law in question, a letter that Mr. Patterson believes supports his interpretation. Neither that letter nor entreaties by several Senators appears to have had much influence in persuading the agency to pick up the pace of its decision-making. Mr. Patterson has understood for several months that a decision was imminent.
Tom Amontree, an Agriculture spokesman, said the department does not comment on personnel issues but added that the case is still under review. "This is a complex case," he said. "It involves a number of different regulations, and we must make sure everything is consistent before a final decision is made."
One of the many ironies of his case is that Mr. Patterson did due diligence on how his career might be affected by his daughter's health. The year before he took the exams for promotion, he sat down and had a conversation with an Agriculture Department official. Would his young daughter's congenital heart problem, corrected surgically but still requiring attention, have any effect on his desire to serve abroad? It would not cause a problem, he says he was told. The department had a history of flexibility in dealing with dependents' medical issues.
Mr. Patterson recounts this conversation ruefully now. He was not at all prepared for the reaction when, in fact, he did pass the yearly written and oral exams and became a candidate for promotion. Listed as eligible for assignment, he presented himself to the State Department, which must sign off on new Foreign Agricultural Service officers.
The State Department denied his daughter a medical clearance, bouncing his case back to the Agriculture Department, which later turned down a request for a medical waiver on the grounds that her care might end up being a financial burden to the Government.
As a Federal worker, Mr. Patterson is not covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act, which forbids "associational discrimination," or discrimination against an employee on the basis of a relationship with someone who has a disability. But he is covered by equivalent legislation, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. In its letter to Agriculture, the Justice Department pointed out that Congress intended that the spirit of the disabilities act should apply to interpretations of the legislation that covers Federal workers. The Patterson case is unusual, employment lawyers said, because it involves a close family member. Associational discrimination cases have typically involved partners of people with AIDS.
Mr. Patterson says he tried to meet several conditions imposed by the Agriculture Department to get the medical waiver. His daughter's doctor certified her condition as stable, requiring medication and occasional monitoring that could be done by a general physician in most of the cities where foreign service officers are posted. He agreed he wouldn't try to take his child abroad or make any claims for disability benefits on her behalf.
Each time he responded to one of the department's conditions, he says, officials raised the stakes, until it became clear that he would be unable to satisfy them.
Mr. Patterson's frustration takes on a tinge of desperation when he talks about his family situation. Though he was married when he began his pursuit of a foreign service career, he is now divorced. His former wife has custody of their two children, including his daughter, and he has little contact with them. He believes that the response to his appeal has a tinge of moralism. "They take a paternalistic view about things," he said. "According to them, things have to be a certain way. Because the child is sick, I cannot leave her. They should not be second-guessing my life."
His lawyers' theory about the Agriculture Department's position is that they didn't realize what they were telling Mr. Patterson was illegal. He was told at one point, he says, that he didn't have a discrimination case because he didn't have the disability, a position clearly at odds with the law.
"The agency knows it took a stupid position originally," said Diane Vogel, one of two Washington civil rights lawyers working on Mr. Patterson's case. "They don't have the sense to back down, and now they're stuck."
Mr. Patterson says a friend who works on the Hill spoke with someone at Agriculture who assured him that a decision was on the desk of the equal opportunity officer, ready for release "any day now." Mr. Patterson hopes this time it's true.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James Patterson in front of the Department of Agriculture in Washington. (David Scull/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

COMPANY: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE (84%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE (84%); FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (57%); FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE (84%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE (84%); FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (57%); FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (92%); MEXICO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; DISCRIMINATION; HANDICAPPED EMPLOYMENT (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (89%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%); CHRONIC DISEASES (52%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (50%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (50%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, BARBARA PRESLEY; PATTERSON, JAMES JAMES PATTERSON (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



555 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 13; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: World Markets;
Once Again, Gold Lures Investors

BYLINE: By Paul Lewis 

 BODY:
THE economist John Maynard Keynes was fascinated by the legend of King Midas, whose greed was such that everything he touched turned into gold, leaving him rich but starving.
The tale, Keynes thought, was a profound warning that mankind's instinctive desire to hoard wealth leads to impoverishment, not riches. This insight contributed to his central belief that governments could and should spend their way out of recessions. 
 "Suppose we were to stop spending our incomes and save the lot," he once jokingly wrote. "Why, everyone would be out of work. And before long we should have no income to spend and starve to death."
Keynesian economics is out of fashion right now, with the governments of most industrial countries running deficits they cannot afford and want to abolish. But mankind's Midas instincts are enjoying a modest revival. The gold market finished 1984 with an annual average price of $384.21 an ounce, the third consecutive yearly rise and the second to beat inflation. (On the Commodity Exchange in New York, the price of gold for February delivery was $385.40 on Friday.)
Since central banks stopped pegging the price of gold in 1968, its value has been driven by the metal's dual nature as both a commodity and the ultimate store of value -- which, in Charles de Gaulle's phrase, "is eternally and universally accepted as the unalterable fiduciary value par excellence."
It was this mystical quality that helped propel gold to a record $850 an ounce in the inflationary, volatile climate of 1980. Relentless selling by the Soviet Union and the central banks of Belgium, Canada and the Netherlands pushed the price down again.
Now it is edging up once more, largely as a result of hoarding in the fast-growing economies of India, China and other Asian countries where incomes are rising and gold is traditionally valued both as jewelry and a store of wealth. These markets now absorb about 55 percent of production.
"The gold price is rising in an environment of low inflation because industrial demand exceeds mine production," noted Richard Scott-Ram of the World Gold Council, a body that promotes gold use on behalf of mining companies. He added, "so long as these emerging economies have strong growth and the middle class gets bigger, there will be demand for gold." According to Gold Field Mineral Services, a London-based analyst, total output from gold mines rose to 2,304 tons last year from 2,160 tons in 1991, while industrial demand for jewelry, electronics and coins climbed to 2,921 tons, from 2,816 tons.
The gap was bridged mainly by recycling discarded jewelry and by sales of gold bullion by central banks diversifying their reserves into interest-paying assets.
Such sales remain a sword of Damocles over the gold market. After peaking at 602 tons in 1992, central bank sales declined to 519 tons the next year and only 46 tons in 1994. Canada, with little gold left, is ending sales, while Belgium and the Netherlands also appear to have stopped.
But with a third of the 115,000 tons of gold in existence in their vaults, central banks retain the power to dent the market severely if they start selling again.
"Was it the massive sales of 1992 and 1993 or the return to a nearly neutral position in 1994 that will prove to be the exception?" Gold Fields Mineral Services asked in its latest review.
Meanwhile a British plan, implemented last year, for the International Monetary Fund to sell gold to help indebted poor countries, appears to be going nowhere, reducing another threat to the gold price.
Many ordinary investors value gold as portfolio ballast whose value ignores swings in stock or bond prices. Brokers naturally recommend mining companies over metal because they pay a dividend as well as moving with the gold price.
Auerbach Grayson, a New York broker specializing in South African mines, likes Val Reef, Western Deep Levels and East Transvaal Consolidated. Adam Horowitz of Rand International Securities adds Kinross and Beatrix. But an exotic possibility is Navan, an Irish minerals company traded in London, which owns a Bulgarian gold mine that is Europe's largest.
While the sky-high 1980's price stimulated new mining ventures, production growth is slowing to 1 percent this year and 2 percent in 1996 and 1997. "The huge growth in mine production that sent American output from a million ounces in 1980 to 10.6 million ounces last year is over," said John Lutley of the Washington-based Gold Institute, which represents American mines.
The key question now is whether the gold price can pierce the psychologically important $400 barrier that it has bumped against for most of the past year. A difficulty, traders say, is that mines are selling gold forward, creating a price barrier around this level.
Ian MacDonald of Credit Suisse said he believes the price will eventually "creep through," encouraged by "gold's role as a store of value in a world where so many currencies are depreciating."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; CHINA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; CHINA (92%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES STARVATION (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOLD MINING (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MINING OUTPUT (85%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (67%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (67%); MINES & MINING (65%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (65%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, PAUL KING MIDAS (67%); JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



556 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
Bringing Point-and-Click Ease to Corporate Computing

BYLINE: By Lawrence M. Fisher 

 BODY:
FOR all the buzz about client-server systems in the computer trade media, one would imagine there to be at least a handful, if not dozens, of companies battling for a share of this market. In fact there is only one independent, publicly held software company that derives its revenues solely from client-server applications: Peoplesoft Inc.
This is not to say that Peoplesoft has no competitors. It has many, and many of them much bigger than Peoplesoft, which expects to report sales of more than $100 million for 1994 when it releases its annual figures. 
 But all the rest are either mainframe software providers dragged kicking and screaming into the new world order; or vendors of relational data base software offering client-server applications to run atop their data management programs. The competition, of course, doesn't include the many client-server applications that are custom written for corporate use by in-house programmers or by consultants.
Peoplesoft, as the name may imply, was created to produce human resources management software -- for managing personnel records and the like. But the company has recently branched out to also offer general-ledger, accounts payable and other financial-management programs that were historically married to the mainframe.
Peoplesoft was founded in Walnut Creek, Calif., in 1987, the same year George Forrester Colony of Forrester Research is said to have coined the term "client server." Peoplesoft products were built from the start to take advantage of the growing power of desktop computers and networks that is the foundation of client-server.
The essence of the client-server approach is that computing tasks are split more or less evenly between desktop "client" computers and larger machines -- the "servers" -- that are connected across a network.
This allows the use of desktop graphic user interfaces, like Microsoft's Windows or Apple's Macintosh operating system software, which provide greater ease of use than mainframe terminals, and the ability to run many processes inter actively and in real time.
In contrast the host/terminal world of mainframe computing placed a "dumb" terminal on a user's desk that could only send or receive simple text-based commands. And this terminal had to take its place in the time-sharing queue for any real work to get done.
"We hit at an opportune time, when client-server wasn't invented yet, but all of the components were there," said David A. Duffield, Peoplesoft's chairman, president and chief executive, who co-founded the company with Kenneth R. Morris and took it public in 1993. "People fell in love with the personal computer, the graphic user interface and used our toolset to extend the ability of the software," he said.
"Even today, I don't think people care that much that it's client-server," Mr. Duffield said. "It's really the other components that make it attractive."
Of course, it is client-server that allowed Peoplesoft to take the pull-down menus and point-and-click way of doing things on a PC and apply it to corporate-wide computing. This was a significant change for human resources managers accustomed, say, to writing out organizational changes, submitting them to the data-processing staff and then waiting days or weeks for a printed report that might or might not be what they wanted. With Peoplesoft's tools, they could make the changes themselves, instantly, by simply dragging and dropping names and positions onto the virtual organization chart on their PC's.
Benefiting from both the proliferation of computer networks that made client-server possible and the broad adoption of business "re-engineering" that made more flexible programs a necessity, Peoplesoft's human resources management software has become the market leader.
These are large programs. Although they are considered "packaged software," in the sense that everything is included, they are not to be confused with shrink-wrapped packages like Lotus 1-2-3. The average cost of Peoplesoft's programs is about $300,000, and installation takes from three months to one year.
But compared with mainframe applications, those prices and installation times are very competitive with mainframe applications, and the payoff can be dramatic.
"We wanted to put tools in users' hands so they could get their data out of the data base without coming to us every time," said Diane Martin, director of product development for the National Association of Securities Dealers. The association, whose members operate the Nasdaq stock market, has replaced a number of custom programs for human resources and its own financial management with Peoplesoft applications.
The N.A.S.D.'s executives "have always had a lot of ad hoc requests for information," not contained in normal personnel reports, Ms. Martin said. With the old system, even an emergency request could take one to three days to be filled; in the new system, the same report can be generated in 30 minutes to an hour.
As Peoplesoft branches beyond personnel software into financial applications, it finds itself competing more directly with two much larger companies: SAP America, a unit of the largest German software company, SAP A.G., and the Oracle Corporation, the largest data base software vendor. Although both companies come from a mainframe and minicomputer background, both have mounted major efforts in client-server, and are currently ranked No. 1 and 2 in market share, ahead of Peoplesoft.
Peoplesoft's programs run in conjunction with all of the major relational data base management programs: I.B.M.'s DB2, Oracle, Sybase, Microsoft's SQL95 and Gupta's SQL Base. And Peoplesoft's software works with all of the major server operating systems: I.B.M.'s MVS and OS/2, Novell's Netware, Digital Equipment's VMS, Microsoft's Windows NT, and various flavors of Unix from Digital, Hewlett-Packard, Sequent, Sun and others.
On the client side, you can have any operating system you like as long as it is Microsoft Windows, although Peoplesoft executives say they would develop support for other clients -- Macintosh, maybe, or OS/2 -- if there was adequate demand.
All of Peoplesoft's programs share common commands and menus. They also share Peopletools, a suite of visual programming tools designed to speed the development of custom applications by eliminating the need for endless lines of code. These allow customers to modify programs using the same tools with which Peoplesoft's engineers wrote them.
"We encourage customers to implement as vanilla a version as possible and customize on the fly," said Ron Codd, Peoplesoft's chief financial officer. "Our product is strong enough to do that."
The relatively easy customization stands in contrast to mainframe environments, in which corporations can often spend a year or more customizing a mainframe application before putting it into regular use. Companies using Peoplesoft's tools say the gains in productivity and reduced costs are substantial. But they also say that adopting this new technology is not a trivial undertaking.
"We liked the fact that it was built from the ground up as client-server, not a 'legacy system' dressed up to look like client-server," said Kathy Lennon, director of corporate systems for Coastal Natural Gas in Houston, which uses Peoplesoft's human resources, general ledger and project-cost-assessment programs.
"But there's a steep learning curve for everyone," she said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (94%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLESOFT ORACLE CORP (94%); APPLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLESOFT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; PERSONAL COMPUTERS NETWORK SERVERS (92%); NETWORK SOFTWARE (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); MARKET SHARE (89%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (78%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M ANN LIVERMORE (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



557 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Mutual Funds;
When the Title Doesn't Tell the Story

BYLINE: By Carole Gould 

 BODY:
WHAT'S in a mutual fund's name? Sometimes not enough, Alan Wildstein, a Connecticut investor, found.
Mr. Wildstein bought shares in the Warburg, Pincus Growth and Income Fund on March 29. "I was looking for a fund that balanced the risks of a growth fund with the comparative safety of an income fund." 
 When the price dived 9 percent less than a month later, he considered the loss so acute -- similar funds fell roughly 2 percent in the period -- that he sold on April 20.
So when he read a newspaper report last month that the fund's yield was negligible and that it had owned a big chunk of volatile technology stocks, he was annoyed -- especially because the fund's share price bounced quickly back after he had sold.
"I'm sure the manager didn't do anything he wasn't allowed to do," Mr. Wildstein said. "But the very name of the fund suggests a more conservative bent."
Also among the rudely surprised in 1994 were a whole slew of short-term bond investors who saw their funds' share prices tumble, even though their issues were expected to weather the rising interest rates better than longer-term ones. The Fidelity Short-Term Bond fund lost more than 4 percent of its value last year while its peers fell just 0.8 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. The fund was hard hit by its emerging-markets debt -- more than a third of its holdings in 1994.
While the prospectus lets the fund do so, "I don't think all the shareholders knew they were so heavily invested in foreign debt," said Jeffrey R. Kelley, associate editor of Morningstar Mutual Funds in Chicago. He added, "You'd think that a fund labeled 'short' would hold up in a rising interest rate environment."
Not Scudder Short-Term Bond, whose share price slipped to $10.94 from $12.01 last year, nearly 3 percent. Its problem involved big holdings in what Mr. Kelley termed "funky mortgages," like inverse floaters and private-label mortgages.
Similarly, derivatives caused large, well-publicized losses in several Piper Jaffray funds managed by Worth Bruntjen. His Managers Short and Intermediate Bond Fund also suffered, falling 8.4 percent last year.
Derivative securities made many funds' durations creep up as interest rates rose, essentially turning short-term bond funds into longer-term ones.
Then there is MIM Bond Income, which paid no yield at all in 1994. That's because it owned no bonds, just convertible securities and stocks.
The TCW/Dean Witter North American Government Income Fund suggests stability from government issues. But its United States holdings are almost entirely mortgage securities, some of them private-label mortgages, which are not backed by the Government. The fund fell 15.5 percent in 1994, partly because of investments in Mexican Government paper but mostly because of mortgage derivatives.
Meanwhile, Alliance North American Income did exactly what its prospectus allowed: put 24 percent of its assets in government securities of Argentina. So why don't they call it the Alliance North American and Argentina Income Fund?
As the Warburg example showed, equity funds are not exempt from confusion.
Fidelity Blue Chip Growth, for example, was indeed "blue chip" until Michael Gordon took over in 1993. He shrunk the fund's average market capitalization to roughly a fifth of its previous size. The fund gained 24.5 percent in 1993, but not because it owned blue-chip stocks.
Last year, the fund's average market capitalization rose to $4.4 billion, still just a third of the Standard & Poor's 500 stocks. And 30 percent was invested in technology stocks in 1994. That accounted for its great showing -- the fund gained 9.9 percent -- but it's still not a blue-chip fund.
What about IDS Managed Retirement? Most people like to think of their retirement funds stashed somewhere stable, especially older people who need to conserve capital. But with wide latitude on its investments, IDS had 25 percent of its holdings overseas in 1994, a third of that, unfortunately, in Latin America and another third in Southeast Asia. Thus the fund lost 4.6 percent, compared with 1.4 percent for its group.
Consider also Alger Income and Growth, which hasn't paid investors a penny in three years because of its high expenses and penchant for owning growth stocks.
The upshot: don't take names for granted.
By law, a fund's name is based on its investing 65 percent or more of its assets in a given category. But "there's a lot you can do with the remaining 35 percent that overrides the other two-thirds in the wrong environment," Mr. Kelley said.
Reading fund prospectuses helps, but not always because they are written so broadly. It is better to check a fund's annual or semiannual report to see what the manager is really doing.
And for bond fund investors, if your fund's yield is much higher than that of other funds, check it out. Something is probably going on that you may regret.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing monthly total returns for Warburg, Pincus Growth and Income Fund and all growth-and-income funds for 1994. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%); PJC (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (58%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%); WARBURG PINCUS LLC (58%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (51%); ALLIANCE NORTH AMERICAN INCOME (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE NORTH AMERICAN INCOME (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NAMES, ORGANIZATIONAL; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (69%); PRIVATE LABELS (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); EMERGING MARKETS (64%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE CLARE SHORT (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



558 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: Manager's Profile

BYLINE: By Carole Gould 

 BODY:

Anthony Orphanos
 
Fund: Warburg, Pincus Growth and Income; $665 million in assets. Manager since 1992. (Sponsor: Warburg, Pincus Counsellors, New York.) 

 Born: Sept. 1, 1945; Boston.
 
 Education: A.B., economics, Harvard; M.B.A., New York University.
 
 Last vacation: One week with wife in Santa Fe, N.M., in October.
 
 Fund performance: Year through 1994: +7.6% (all growth and income funds:
-1.5%); five years, annualized: +13.6% (+7.8%).*
 
 Stock market view: *** (self-rating; ***** = most bearish).
 
 Stock pick: The Halliburton Company, because the combination of a dwindling oil surplus and static oil exploration for 15 years will put upward pressure on oil prices through the end of the decade, favoring increased oil and gas exploration.
 
 Current strategy: "Because I'm bearish, 40 percent of the portfolio is in cash." Biggest industry weights: financial services, 17%; communications, 8%; oil services, 8%.*Source: Morningstar Inc.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (83%); MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (90%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (90%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (90%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (83%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (83%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (83%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (83%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: WARBURG PINCUS GROWTH AND INCOME FUND WARBURG PINCUS LLC (90%); HALLIBURTON CO (83%); MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: WARBURG PINCUS GROWTH AND INCOME FUND NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); SANTA FE, NM, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); OIL EXPLORATION (86%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (86%); BONDS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (67%); 

PERSON: GOULD, CAROLE; ORPHANOS, ANTHONY PINCUS COUNSELLORS (90%); ANTHONY ORPHANOS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



559 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Technology;
Want the 99th Floor? Getting There May Be Half the Fun

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
THERE seems to be a rule of life in the high-rise world: when you are really, really in a hurry, the elevator takes forever to arrive.
Elevator makers have been trying to make vertical travel quicker and more convenient. They have been replacing the slower motor and gear technology with gearless lift systems. Those elevators eliminate the gears and make the motor part of the pulley that controls the movement of the wire cables that suspend the elevator car and its counterweight. 
 Gearless elevators can move at speeds of up to 2,000 feet a minute, compared with systems using both motors and gears, which are limited to about 500 feet a minute, because of the mechanical drag of the gears.
Now a company that has quietly become the second-largest seller of elevators and escalators in this country, behind the Otis Elevator Company, is marketing a system that does away with "up" and "down" buttons and uses computer wiles to reduce trip times by as much as a third.
The Schindler Elevator Company, the American subsidiary of a Swiss company, substitutes a keypad similar to that on a telephone for the up and down buttons in hallways and eliminates floor buttons inside the elevator cars.
A person enters the number of the desired floor into the keypad, and the system, after assessing other requests, assigns an elevator.
A liquid crystal display above the keypad tells the person which elevator is assigned to the trip and whether it will be to the right, left or behind. Inside, a light panel shows the floors where the car is assigned to stop, but there are no buttons because the control system already knows where everybody is going.
"The system optimizes the handling of passengers, because it knows how many people are going where," said David J. Bauhs, chief executive of Schindler's American operation, the Schindler Elevator Corporation, based in Morristown, N.J.
For example, an elevator car with a predetermined number of passengers headed for the ground floor might be converted by the computer to an express, bypassing people wanting interfloor trips who would be served by other cars.
Mr. Bauhs said the system, called the Miconic 10, reduced both waiting and travel time and cut by as much as 30 percent the number of elevator cars needed in a building. Each car can cost $150,000 to $200,000.
One button on the Miconic 10 keypad displays a wheelchair icon for people with physical handicaps. Pressing that button before selecting a floor adds a synthesized voice prompt to the visual display: "Take elevator A."
Each elevator emits a different tone to enable visually impaired people to find the right car. The car announces the floor at which it has stopped and when the doors are open. The doors also stay open longer when the handicapped key is pressed and close more slowly than during regular operation.
That is the basic configuration. But Schindler officials say the system can be modified to improve security or provide information on the patterns of tenants' use for building managers.
For instance, the system could be configured so users would have to enter unique numerical codes before selecting floors. Based on that identification, visitors could be restricted to certain floors for security reasons. And, yes, the boss could have a code that would insure top priority for elevator service, meaning an express would always be available.
THE data on users could also be the raw material for "smart" buildings, which can tailor services to the actual patterns of use, rather than operating on an inflexible schedule.
"The system knows the person and the destination," Mr. Bauhs said. "So when the first guy comes in, it could be a signal to turn on the lights, air-conditioning and computer systems and then to turn them off when the last person leaves."
Though the keypad is more complex and costly than a system using up- and down-buttons, the savings generated by not having to put controls in each car make the systems about a wash economically, the company said.
SO far, the Schindler system has been installed only in the Ameritech building in Indianapolis, but will soon be put into Corning Inc.'s research and development building in Corning, N.Y., and the new headquarters of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington.
Schindler -- no relation to the German industrialist immortalized in the recent film -- is a family-controlled Swiss company that does about $3 billion a year in business worldwide. It entered the North American market in 1979, when it acquired the Haughton Elevator Company in Toledo, Ohio.
In 1989 it acquired the Westinghouse elevator and escalator business and consolidated a number of regional maintenance companies into the Millar Elevator Service Company, which services elevators and escalators produced by a variety of manufacturers.
Schindler, which employs about 6,000 in North America, has a research and training center in Randolph, N.J., that includes five 210-foot elevator shafts.

GRAPHIC: Photos showing how the new elevator developed by Shindler Elevator operates. (Tom Strickland for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLW (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC3534 ELEVATORS & MOVING STAIRWAYS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: SCHINDLER ELEVATOR CO SCHINDLER ELEVATOR CORP (82%); OTIS ELEVATOR CO (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCHINDLER ELEVATOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ELEVATORS AND ESCALATORS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MFG (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (83%); NEW CAR MODELS (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); VISION IMPAIRMENTS (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN DAVID J BAUHS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



560 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1833 words

HEADLINE: The World: Japan's Nature;
A People Tremble in Harmony With the Land

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: KOBE, Japan

 BODY:
Earth shakes, ground trembles.
With great weight of snow,
The tight rope snaps back.
 -- Itto Nishimoto, haiku poet, 1907-1991
 WITH its neon lights and heated toilet seats and cellular faxes, the great trading city of Kobe a week ago seemed a citadel of modernity and affluence and internationalism, an antipodean New York with more sushi. Then the ground opened up Tuesday and unleashed an inferno that killed more than 4,000 people and returned part of western Japan to a primeval condition that would have been recognizable to the people who lived in Japan thousands of years ago.
 The earthquake was a horrific reminder that prosperity and technology cannot insulate a country from its natural environment. The familiar pattern of Japanese history -- development, disaster and reconstruction -- is now being repeated in Kobe and the surrounding cities as residents search the smoldering rubble for the bodies of their friends and try to rebuild homes and businesses that took a lifetime to create. 
It is of course risky to generalize too much about differences in foreign cultures. A century ago one of the first Japanese to travel to the United States wrote back, "In America, unmarried women are called Jones, and married women are called Johnson."
 Yet differences can be real, and sometimes the way people or nations react to disasters can open a window on their souls. The catastrophe in western Japan, and its orderly aftermath, with hardly a looter to be found, may offer some insights into life and society in Japan.
 Asian cultures have always felt themselves to be intertwined with nature in a way that is difficult for Americans to appreciate. Earthquakes, floods, typhoons, tidal waves, monsoons and volcanoes are an essential part of the natural order, nourishing life and extinguishing it, and the risks are always in the back of people's minds.
 The sense of vulnerability has bred a stoicism that can be seen in the streets of Kobe today. "Shikata Ga Nai," the Japanese say, "that's just the way it is; it can't be helped." Natural disasters may just be a matter of "unmei" -- fate -- a word that, when it is written, is composed of the characters for movement and for life.
 While Westerners have long seen humans in confrontation with nature, and usually overcoming it, the traditional Japanese conception was different. The Japanese saw themselves as a part of nature, so much so that even the word for nature, "shizen," is a modern one, only about 100 years old. Until then there was no need for a Western concept of nature, for people were not distinct from the environment but embedded in it. Japan is, after all, the only industrial country whose head of state (Emperor Akihito) is a descendant of the Sun Goddess.

 
 
Expecting Disaster
 Japan, in fact, has been subject to the cycle of natural disaster and renewal for thousands of years, and today the 30 million people in the Tokyo region sit atop an active fault that constantly threatens the kinds of upheaval that killed 142,000 people in the great Tokyo earthquake of 1923. The city fire authorities released a study a few days ago that another severe earthquake in Tokyo could kill or injure 68,000 people -- and that might be optimistic, since the Kobe quake produced more damage than anybody had anticipated.
 In one respect, it is much the same throughout Asia. In low-lying Bangladesh, flooding in 1988 left two-thirds of the country under water, and a typhoon in 1991 killed more than 100,000 people. Some were saved only when they were blown off their offshore islands and onto the mainland a dozen miles away. If global warming leads oceans to rise a few feet, much of Bangladesh may simply disappear.
 China is the great historical chronicler in the region, and its records go back for thousands of years in recording hundreds of thousands of people at a time killed by earthquakes or floods or changes in the courses of rivers.
 At the beginning of the 1960's a famine killed 30 million Chinese -- it was the worst famine in world history -- and as recently as 1976 an earthquake in the northern Chinese city of Tangshan killed 240,000 people by official count and perhaps several times that number.
 Yet Japan has traveled a long way from its Shinto roots as a nation of nature-worshiping rice farmers. Beginning with the Meiji Era a century ago, when Japan began its frantic and furious effort to modernize, every effort has gone into building skyscrapers and bridges and (supposedly) quake-proof freeways. Instead of keeping in harmony with the dragons of nature, engineers sought dominance.
 "We're exposed to a severe natural environment, and we're probably more aware of natural hazards than Americans are," said Yozo Fujino, an earthquake expert and engineering professor at Tokyo University. "So we've been paying extra to try to get more safety, but the quake shows that our procedures weren't adequate."
 Still, in some ways the engineers succeeded. There has been a good deal of second-guessing and recrimination about the collapse of buildings and bridges that were not supposed to collapse, but the fact remains that an exceptionally violent temblor took a region with millions of people, with enough strength to heave railroad cars on their sides, and 99.9 percent of the population survived.
 Japanese engineers have developed not only bullet trains that travel as fast as 170 miles an hour, but also a system whereby seismographs automatically dispatch computerized instructions to halt the bullet trains at the first sign of an earthquake. In Osaka, near the heart of the quake, the gas company has installed meters that instantly shut off the gas supply at the first seismic jolt. Japanese engineering was humiliated only because of its own exceptionally high standards.

 
 
Remembering Old Boasts
 Still, the humiliation is there. The Japanese newspapers are full of self-mocking recollections that after the Los Angeles earthquake a year ago Japanese said that freeways here could never collapse. The nation itself has been humbled, adding to the tangle of feelings the Japanese have about precisely who they have become and just where they fit in the modern world.
 Sometimes Japan seems torn between two perceptions of itself. One is of the irrepressible, unstoppable powerhouse, whose secret weapon is its own special national characteristics. That vision of Japan as No. 1 was strongest in the early part of World War II, when the Japanese Army and Navy overwhelmed allied forces in the Pacific and Southeast Asia, and again in the 1980's, when the Tokyo stock market seemed filled with helium and real estate tycoons ate food coated with gold -- the better for their health -- as land prices rose so high that the Imperial Palace grounds in Tokyo were supposedly worth more than all of California.
The other self-perception of Japan is of the poor island archipelago with few natural resources, one that is always living on the edge of one disaster or another. This more humble version returned a bit in the last few years following the collapse of the "bubble economy." The great earthquake seems to have again brought this image to the fore when Japan holds a mirror to itself.

 
 
A Lingering Uncertainty
 "It's been 50 years since the war ended and we're at a watershed," said Keigo Okonogi, a professor of psychiatry at Keio University in Tokyo. "We've had our economy hollowed out, corruption in politics, and very rapid changes. This earthquake will add to the sense of uncertainty among the Japanese people.
 "Japan had been proud of its highways, bridges, railroads, and they were destroyed in the quake, so there's a psychological blow to the Japanese people."
 Yet it is striking how, here in Kobe, people are looking only ahead. They are cleaning out their homes, or clearing the rubble, and seeing how they can rebuild their lives.
 One of the phrases the Japanese have used in describing themselves is "gaman," a term that has no equivalent in English but that roughly means a kind of stoical perseverence.
 Half a century ago, Kobe was nearly destroyed by bombing in World War II, and then the local people rebuilt it into one of the great trading centers of Asia, the port through which 12 percent of Japan's exports pass. Now, large sections of Kobe again are smoldering rubble, and the rebuilding has begun once more. The resilience is breathtaking.
 "In 1944 I was in Tokyo when it was heavily bombed, and in one night almost one-third of the city was bombed," Hiroyoshi Ishikawa, a professor of social psychology at Seijo University, remembers. "But the next day we began to adjust to the new environment and find a way to survive. It's the gaman mindset, and it's in the national character of the Japanese people."
 Perhaps it is a bit self-serving when Japanese see themselves as apostles of patience and perseverence, but it is true that such values are often drilled into young people from an early age. Whereas American parents are always telling Johnny to put on his jacket before going outside, some Japanese parents send Toshi-kun to kindergartens where the kids run around outside in winter in just their shorts. It builds character.
 Or maybe it just gives the kids colds. Even so, it at least helps create a sense of expectation that people will endure hardship together.
 There was little or no looting in Kobe, even though store windows were shattered and goods were sometimes available for the picking. Perhaps people didn't steal because they are good at heart, or perhaps because each neighborhood is like a little village, or perhaps because everybody is suffering together, or perhaps because residents are too worried about the shame of getting caught.

 
 
A Sense of Order
 It is common to describe Western society as guilt-based and Japanese as shame-based. Americans have hangups while the Japanese get embarrassed, or so the theory goes, and no doubt it can be taken too far.
 But this sense of personal honor and dignity, and fear of being shamed, may be one reason why the Japanese in Kobe are ideal disaster victims. Even when their lives have been torn apart by earthquake, they sometimes line up and politely offer: After you.
 Then, too, this part of Japan, which is known as the Kansai, is famous as an area where people are particularly pragmatic. In Osaka, the capital of the Kansai region, older folks sometimes still greet each other: "Mokari makka" -- "Have you made money today?" People of Kansai barely see pie in the sky before they're plotting to bring it down to earth.
 These days, this pragmatism is evident in the little ways that people are adapting. They press ahead to rebuild, accepting the week's tragedy with a measure of philosophical acceptance. As the great 17th century haiku poet Basho wrote, after finding a man's grave in a bamboo grove:
 The vicissitudes of life.
 Sad, to become finally
 a bamboo shoot.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The earthquake that devastated the city of Kobe last week and killed more than 4,000 people was the latest blow in Japan's long history of adversity at the hands of nature. It left the Motosumiyoshi Shinto Shrine in ruins. (Katsumi Kasahara/Associated Press)(pg.1); A woman and her grandchild were left homeless, 2 aong 140,000)(Reuters)(pg.6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: KOBE, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO UNIVERSITY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO UNIVERSITY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOBE (JAPAN); JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); KINKI, JAPAN (79%); KOBE, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DISASTERS WRITERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); TSUNAMIS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); TYPHOONS (71%); TRENDS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



561 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Timber! A New Idea Is Crashing.

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
FOR a nation sharply divided about how to save rare species like the spotted owl, the California gnatcatcher and the Florida panther, the idea of ecosystem management seemed just the thing. Rather than letting the life or death of a single species determine the fate of proposed dams and timber projects, this new philosophy of land management was designed to protect broad natural habitats, including the species within them, while still leaving room for humans to exploit the land. Ecosystems, unlike species on the brink of extinction, are elastic enough to take some abuse by humans; they can be preserved without getting in the way of progress. So, in this era of public ambivalence about nature's neediest cases, the idea of ecosystem management seemed to have a bright political future. It offered something for everyone -- liberals and conservatives, conservationists and industrialists.
 Over the last two years, the Clinton Administration has embraced the concept of ecosystem management. In 1993 the Interior Department set up the National Biological Survey, a group of 1,700 scientists and natural resource specialists, charged with the task of making this concept work.
 The survey had scarcely begun when the Republicans came to town. The problem then became how to sell the Republicans on an environmental novelty that nobody could easily explain. Now that problem looks more intractable than ever.
 An ecosystem is an area -- usually a distinct landscape like Appalachia or a watershed like the Chesapeake Bay -- in which plant and animal communities live in complex relationships with one other and with the region's soil, water, air and climate. The trouble is, ecosystems, like cuisines, are inherently hard to define. "To some degree, an ecosystem is in the eye of the beholder," Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt once testified in Congress.
 Ecosystem management is even harder to define. It's a slippery concept, calling for extraordinary cooperation among various uncoordinated bureaucracies and competing interest groups. A Congressional Research Service report on ecosystem management stated drily that "there is not enough agreement on the meaning of the concept to hinder its popularity."
 Apparently, though, there is enough agreement to kill the concept altogether. When the Republicans swept in, they quickly began devising a budgetary death for ecosystem management.
 This month, at the first budget hearing called by the new Republican majority on the House Appropriations Committee's subcommittee dealing with natural resource issues, star witnesses from conservative think tanks (including the conservative Heritage Foundation, the libertarian Cato Institute and the pro-business Citizens for a Sound Economy) advised the House to abolish the National Biological Survey, whose very existence was never explicitly authorized by Congress.
 Already the biological survey is under assault. The House Republicans' "contract" of high priority legislation envisions practically eliminating the scientific budget of the Interior Department -- a cutback that the new Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, John R. Kasich of Ohio, wholeheartedly favors.
 But even while the National Biological Survey is threatened, the Clinton Administration's senior environmental officials are trying to save it. Their first small step in its defense was to rename the scientific agency the National Biological Service, which they hope will sound more appealing. Ultimately, they want to persuade lawmakers that ecosystem management is not a radical concept but an idea that all ideologies can embrace.
 "This approach, whether you call it ecosystem management or not, is the most significant contribution that this Administration has made to environmental policy," said George Frampton, the assistant secretary of Interior. "Trying to involve as many stakeholders as possible in our decisions, trying to meld good science with practical solutions, those are all things that the Republican center of power in Congress ought to support, even more than liberal Democrats."
 Three recent examples show what ecosystem management has accomplished under the Clinton Administration:
 *A Federal judge in Seattle has approved the Administration's plan for the old-growth forests of the Pacific Northwest. The plan allows for logging to resume at a low enough level that it does not disturb the endangered spotted owl's habitat or the streams that shelter salmon and hundreds of other species.
 *The State of California has reached an agreement with Federal water and wildlife agencies for managing the San Francisco Bay and its neighboring tributaries and deltas. According to that agreement, water would be allocated to agricultural and urban users in such a way that the spawning grounds of local fish would be protected.
 *In southern Florida, the Corps of Engineers has begun planning for the rehabilitation of the Everglades, an unfathomably complex ecosystem that in the past 50 years humans have altered almost beyond recognition.
 Still, the prospect for ecosystem management looks grim. Ecosystem management works best when artificial boundaries like state lines or property fences or bureaucratic turf do not matter. But in a world where boundaries do matter, the idea of ecosystem management, like the Endangered Species Act itself, collides again and again with the interests of private property owners -- and that is exactly what has bothered the conservatives about environmentalism all along.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Spotted owl: resident of an ecosystem? (William Campbell/Sygma)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); NATIONAL BIOLOGICAL SURVEY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; LAND USE POLICIES SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); BUDGETS (87%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AQUIFERS & WATERSHEDS (78%); WILDLIFE (78%); ANIMALS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); WITNESSES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (74%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (72%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (71%); TESTIMONY (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) JOHN KASICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



562 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Has the U.S. Got a Horse for You: Mexico

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
IT'S the sort of deal Michael Milken would understand. Take a wobbling borrower -- Mexico, in this case -- that needs to sell or shore up a tower of investments, maybe $40 billion worth, and agree to guarantee them. In return, pocket gazillions in fees. If everything goes right.
 That the United States is now looking like Mexico's junk-bond financier, under arrangements being hashed out last week, reflects the nation's huge stake south of the border. Banks, corporations and mutual funds, and their ma-and-pa investors, sent tens of billions to Mexico, and the United States has to bail them out. Mexican debt, which flirted with investment-grade ratings last year, now looks about as solid as the bonds pumped out by many a tottering savings and loan. 
 Last week, members of Congress derided the Clinton Administration's $40 billion rescue plan, on top of an $18 billion international package, as a welfare program for bumbling Mexican leaders and gullible American investors. President Clinton responded that the country has no choice. To hold back, he said, would ravage the American economy, devastate Latin American markets and send hundreds of thousands more illegal immigrants swarming northward.
 Mr. Milken, who in 1993 completed his jail term for securities fraud, had astounding success selling junk bonds and keeping issuers afloat. He convinced investors that high interest rates more than compensated for the risk that his clients would go bankrupt. At his peak, he persuaded investors to let his shakiest clients delay payments by promising even richer returns later.
 Investors might not think of their Mexican holdings -- called tesobonos and such -- as junk bonds. But they have the same sort of watery credit ratings as the Milken paper, plus so much currency risk that the Mexican Government has to offer 20 percent interest to sell more bonds. With Mexico Inc. as a client, Mr. Clinton and his Treasury Secretary, Robert E. Rubin, a former chief of the Goldman Sachs investment firm, have to save an issuer that went from sound to sickly in a matter of days. They must figure out how Mexico, as it careers towards insolvency, can keep paying its bills, especially invoices for American goods and interest for American investors.
 "In many ways what you have is a company that has had to go through a restructuring because it has run out of cash," said Jorge O. Mariscal, director of research in Latin American stocks at Goldman Sachs, which last November became the first American investment firm licensed to trade in the Mexican market. "A company like that has to have a new business plan."
The North American Free Trade Agreement that Mr. Clinton pushed through Congress in 1993 has, as promised, increased trade and employment on both sides of the border. But it has also lulled many investors into thinking that Mexico is just like Canada, only with palapas instead of permafrost. In December 1993, the month after Congress passed the agreement, United States investment in Mexico jumped to $3.9 billion, more than four times as much as the same month the year before. Many companies began treating North America like a single production zone, and auto makers turned a swath of Northern Mexico into Detroit South.
 Then came the peso's devaluation and the precipitous drop in Mexicans' buying power. Border shopping malls crowded with Mexican shoppers a few weeks ago are now nearly barren. The earnings of many of the United States' largest manufacturers, ranging from Mattel to Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Kleenex tissues and Huggies diapers, have already suffered. A currency trader at Chemical Banking who bet on the peso's strength lost his company $70 million.
 Although the peso's latest crash calls to mind the crisis of 1982, when banks were shaken by toppling Latin American loans, today's stakes are much higher.
 "With the banks, you could restructure the loans with a few bankers," said Robert Hormats, Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs International. "Now you have to devise a mechanism that's persuasive to tens of thousands of stock- and bond-holders" who can dump their holdings if they don't like what they see.

 
 
Party Time
 Federal Reserve officials are even having to frame the nation's monetary policy with Mexico in mind. While the Fed remains likely to raise interest rates to fight inflation at home, its officials must weigh the risk that investors will then pull more money away from Mexico. Because Alan Greenspan, the Fed's chairman, hopes to avoid facing such a stark choice, several economists said, he has helped to package the $40 billion in loan guarantees.
 One past chairman once described the Fed's role as taking away the punch bowl just as the party gets going; some suspect that now that Mexico's invited to the party, maybe the punch bowl stays.
 As Mr. Milken remembers, the high-wire finance needed to balance a listing enterprise has its risks. At his firm, Drexel Burnham Lambert, junk bond finance yielded huge fees, unsteady debtors repaid or reorganized and everything worked just fine. Until it didn't. Then his company went bust.
 As Mexico's turmoil sloshed across the Rio Grande, some traders began betting against the currency and stocks of an even larger debtor, indeed the world's largest: the United States.

 
 
Vulnerable
 Not since the days when the boundary between the United States and Mexico was a matter of armed dispute have Americans felt so vulnerable. It was a Mexican President, Porfirio Diaz, who once said, "Poor Mexico. So far from God, and so close to the United States."
 In the 1990's, the response from many Americans might be, "The poor United States. So far from God, and so close to Mexico."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY PUBLIC DEBT (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); BONDS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); BUSINESS PLANS (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) MICHAEL MILKEN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



563 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: High Price of a 'Victory'

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The way the Government treated it, the raising of the Russian flag over the blackened hulk of the presidential palace in the rebel Chechen capital was akin to the Soviet flag going up over Hitler's Reichstag, an image graven in every Russian heart as the moment Nazism was finally beaten.
"At 15:35 on the 19th of January, the soldiers of the 276th Motorized Infantry Regiment, commanded by Col. Sergei Bunin, hoisted the flag of the Russian Federation over the presidential palace in Grozny," intoned Krasnya Zvezda, the army newspaper. 
 In Parliament on Friday, there was a proposal to make Colonel Bunin a Hero of Russia. Though voted down, it was an indication of the strained official effort to label the Chechnya mission a victory instead of the moral, political, institutional and financial disaster it has been.
While the war in Chechnya is hardly finished, it is not too soon to count the costs of Moscow's "victory" -- costs that extend far beyond the lives lost or ruined by one of the crudest bombardments of a virtually defenseless city in recent memory.
The war in Chechnya has exposed and widened the fault lines in the economic and political stability of a Russia only three years removed from totalitarian Communism.
Internationally, the war has damaged Moscow's already shaky relations with Europe, the Clinton Administration and the new Republican Congress; renewed fears of totalitarianism in Russia; accelerated the idea of NATO's expansion; hurt the prospects for Russian compliance with treaty limits on the use of conventional forces in Europe; delayed the ratification of two important arms-control treaties, and undercut investor confidence.
Domestically, it has isolated President Boris N. Yeltsin from democrats in Russian society; formalized a new, undemocratic decision-making body, the Security Council, which has become a semi-Politburo; and split and humiliated the army. It has weakened the Parliament, encouraged anti-Western paranoia, shattered financial and budgetary plans and threatened vital new loans from the International Monetary Fund, and driven the ruble to a record low against the dollar.
So if the raising of the Russian flag in Grozny allows Moscow to start trying to solve its problems there, it also means Mr. Yeltsin and his Government must make some fundamental decisions about what kind of country Russia is going to be.
Senior Western diplomats, like many Russian officials, speak with despair about the damage done. "Yeltsin seemed to fall into Chechnya almost thoughtlessly, with one stupid decision leading to another," said one diplomat. "Now he risks losing almost everything positive he's managed to build, and in an international atmosphere much less welcoming than it was."
Among the most important international consequences, he and others said, was the growing mistrust of Russian intentions. Mr. Yeltsin's pre-Chechnya threat of a new "cold peace" and his continuing reluctance to ally with NATO are only adding to the pressure now to expand NATO much more rapidly, precisely what Moscow does not want.
The operation in Chechnya has deepened suspicions about Moscow among American Republicans, now in control of both houses of Congress. Steady criticism of Moscow doubles back in the wary souls of Russian nationalists, who control the Parliament here. The new nativist politics in both capitals hinders the weakened Russian and American Presidents from enhancing relations.
Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev held thoughtful private discussions with Secretary of State Warren Christopher in Geneva last week, but it is obvious that Mr. Kozyrev does not represent the full force of his Government. The growing nationalism in Mr. Yeltsin's circle and in the Parliament, more strident with the loss of each Russian soldier in Chechnya, has led to a new distrust of the West.
There is more talk of protecting the economy from Western ownership and Western "designs." Last week the domestic spy agency asserted that the Peace Corps, the Carnegie Endowment, the Ford Foundation and the Soros Foundation were spying for Washington, not providing technical aid to Russia.
The mutual suspicion has jeopardized some of the greatest diplomatic achievements of the post-cold-war period. Russia has still not ratified a treaty banning chemical weapons or the key treaty sharply cutting strategic nuclear arsenals, Start-2.
The problem here is twofold. First, compliance will cost billions of dollars that Russia does not have; second, the Yeltsin Administration has failed to even begin lobbying for ratification in a Parliament more likely than ever to see the treaties as capitulation.
Chechnya has also been used by the Russians to argue for the renegotiation of the 1990 Conventional Forces in Europe treaty, which committed the old Soviet Union to confining tanks, armor and other military equipment by November to specific limits in areas west of the Urals.
Russia has complained regularly that its post-Soviet borders require a revised treaty, and it has now moved much more equipment into Chechnya than the treaty allows. Russia also failed to inform other European countries of its troop movements into Chechnya, in violation of a treaty designed to promote security.
Domestically, the political scene is now more unstable than at any time since October 1993, when Mr. Yeltsin ordered tanks to fire on the old Parliament building. The vulnerable Defense Minister, Gen. Pavel S. Grachev, has accused the head of Parliament's defense committee, Sergei N. Yushenkov, of "slandering the army" and blasted Mr. Yeltsin's human rights commissioner, Sergei A. Kovalyov, as "an enemy of Russia."
Equally important, the economy is badly overheating and the budget deficit widening. A bigger deficit means increased inflation, already in double digits for each month of the last quarter. More inflation promises a further weakening of the ruble and of investor confidence. On Friday the ruble fell to its historic low, 3,947 to the dollar.
"Except for God, no one knows how much has been spent in Chechnya," wrote the Vechernaya Moskva newspaper. Estimates range widely, from $2 billion to $4 billion.
None of those costs were figured into a tight draft budget for 1995 that is already not tight enough for the International Monetary Fund. The fund's experts are now in Moscow trying to decide how much to provide to Moscow in transitional loans.
Before the war in Chechnya, there was optimism that in return for a real economic stabilization plan and a lower deficit, the fund and World Bank would provide as much as $13 billion. There is less optimism now, especially since Chechnya is diverting political will from the painful task of stabilizing the economy. It will be harder now for Mr. Yeltsin to refuse new money to the military.
So with less than a year to go before parliamentary elections and 18 months before presidential ones, the Chechen fiasco puts Russia at another major crossroads.
Will Russia continue to seek partnership as well as aid from the West, or will it turn inward, nursing its wounded nationalism and paranoia?
Can Mr. Yeltsin find the political will to seek a rapprochement with his Chechnya critics, or will he retreat to a nondemocratic cronyism?
Can Russia move further toward a healthy private market and a democratic polity, or will it retrench toward more institutional corruption and bureaucratic dictatorship?
These questions matter more than ever now. "It may seem callous," a senior Western diplomat said, "but where Russia goes now matters a lot more than whether Chechnya becomes independent."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHECHNYA (RUSSIA); GROZNY (RUSSIA); EUROPE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENTS ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



564 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-13
 
RESILIENCE IN JAPAN
In Kobe, Japan, after a disastrous earthquake and enormous suffering, people have gone to work organizing temporary shelter and are showing strong resilience. 1
 
EASING PAIN IN KOBE
In makeshift shelters around the earthquake-stricken city of Kobe, Japan, people have come together in shelters and are providing comfort for one another as well. 10 

Is crime better organized for relief in Japan? 9
 
At the last stop to Kobe, a town is trying to cope. 10
 
FAULT LINES FOR RUSSIA
News analysis: The Russian attack on the secessionist region of Chechnya has revealed political and economic fault lines in Russia and has damaged its international relations. 1
 
RUSSIAN REBEL BASE
A city south of the capital of the secessionist Chechnya region has become the base for the rebels; the mountainous area has a long history of resistance to Russia. 6
 
TOUGH LEGACY IN BOSNIA
The commander of the United Nations forces in Bosnia has finished his stint, leaving behind a somewhat safer capital but difficult relations with the Bosnian Government. 6
 
PEACEKEEPING IN SINAI
The role of American peacekeepers in the Sinai Peninsula, carrying out the treaty between Israel and Egypt, is being studied in light of recommendations for peacekeepers in the Golan Heights. 3
 
STANDOFF IN MEXICO
Protests have died down in the state of Tabasco in Mexico, but it was unclear how the dispute over an election for state governor would finally be resolved. 12
 
Ireland sees progress in the Northern Ireland peace effort. 4
 
A setback in the rift between Buddhists and the Pope. 13
 
Eritrea's leader said he welcomes American aid and involvement. 11
 
An inquiry in India over deaths in a snowstorm in Kashmir. 12
 
National 14-24
 
THE PRESIDENT'S BALANCING ACT
Bill Clinton will propose an increase in the budget for enforcing immigration laws and is leaning toward increasing the minimum wage, Administration officials said. 1
 
A ROUSING DEMOCRATIC REVIVAL
Democrats came together, for now, as they installed their new chairman and greeted the President with chants of "Six more years!" 1
 
A PORTRAIT OF TURMOIL
The portrait of Qubilah Shabazz that has begun to emerge since she was arrested on charges of plotting to kill Louis Farrakhan is complicated and incomplete. 1
 
WHO'S ON FIRST? EVERYBODY
The major league baseball teams are searching for replacements for their striking players. Except for the Baltimore Orioles, which refuses refuses to go along, the teams are grabbing players wherever they can find them.1
 
'A CONVOCATION FOR PEACE'
Abortion rights advocates prepared to mark the 22d anniversary of the Supreme Court's Roe v. Wade decision with warnings that increased violence has threatened women's access to abortion. 14
 
PAYING RESPECT TO TWO BOYS
The lake in South Carolina where officials say Michael and Alex Smith were drowned by their mother has become a shrine. 14
 
People v. Simpson: Marcia Clark, for the prosecution. 16
 
Metropolitan 25-31
 
WHITMAN'S NEWEST TAX CUT
 Gov. Christine Todd Whitman has outlined a proposed state budget that promises a third income tax cut: just how much, the Governor will reveal tomorrow in her formal budget address. 1
 
Obituaries 33
 
Dr. Bernard L. Oser, biochemist who raised food safety awareness.
 
Neediest Cases 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%); ERITREA (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (93%); KASHMIR (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: KOBE, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (92%); ASIA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EGYPT (79%); ERITREA (79%); INDIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (93%); KASHMIR (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); KOBE, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PEACEKEEPING (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); ARRESTS (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (71%); BUDGETS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); IMMIGRATION LAW (66%); GOVERNORS (65%); BASEBALL (64%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); ABORTION (63%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (51%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



565 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: WHITMAN OUTLINES A SKETCHY BUDGET

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman today outlined a proposed state budget that promises a third income tax cut -- just how much the Governor will reveal Monday in her formal budget address -- and includes $ 160 million in new revenue from a flurry of taxes and fees that would reach all the way down to the pennies people save with supermarket coupons.
The proposed $ 15.9 billion budget to run New Jersey for 12 months starting in July contains some good news for urban schools and state colleges, which would get small increases in aid, but not enough to cover the rate of inflation. There is less good news for municipalities, which will get no increases in state help. And the news is clearly bad for the state's 65,000 employees; about 3,000 of them will be cut from the payroll over 18 months through layoffs, privatization and attrition. 
 Although today's news briefing was billed as an overview of the spending plan, figures provided by the State Treasurer, Brian Clymer, and the Governor's chief counsel, Peter Verniero, did not spell out how big an income tax cut the Governor would seek and did not provide figures that could be used to make a year-to-year comparison of spending on state agencies.
"In order to preserve the Governor's prerogative, these details will be available after the Governor's address," Mr. Clymer said.
There has been such widespread speculation that Mrs. Whitman will go ahead with a 5 percent cut in income taxes that anything less than that would be a letdown for many legislators.
In providing the budget overview this weekend, and making her formal speech Monday, Mrs. Whitman almost certainly guaranteed herself a stretch of articles based on information given out when and how her administration chooses. The last Republican Governor, Thomas H. Kean, followed this practice of releasing his budget plans; Jim Florio, a Democrat, presented the whole package on the day of his budget address to the Legislature.
State Democrats, who are in the minority in both houses of the Legislature, said the budget proposal is too reliant on the taxes and fees, and attacked it for forcing up local taxes by giving too little to schools and municipalities. Assemblyman Joseph Suliga of Union County, designated by the Democrats to respond to the details released today, called the budget outline "another Whitman sampler of property tax shifts, higher fees and increased borrowing."
The proposed budget relies on an improving economy to close a projected $ 1.8 billion budget gap in next year's spending plan, as well as savings from administrative changes within state operations, such as assigning lower paid nonuniformed workers to perform clerical work now done by police and corrections officers.
For all its lack of detail on overall spending plans, the budget proposal was rich in the political interpretation that Mrs. Whitman, who has made her reputation as a can-do tax and budget cutter, wants to deliver. Total state spending would have actually gone down, the budget outline notes, if nearly $ 600 million in unavoidable debt service, court-ordered school funding and local court costs had not been beyond her control.
In the absence of precise figures of where the Governor's cuts will fall, the briefing session devoted special attention to parsing the source and legal status of about $ 160 million in new revenues that Mr. Clymer proposed to win by what he called the closing of tax loopholes and what the Democrats are likely to call new taxes.
The administration thinks it can collect $ 50 million more by more careful audits of how alcoholic beverage taxes are collected. It also thinks it can raise $ 30 million by taxing alcohol when it leaves the warehouse rather than when the bar serves it, figuring that it is easier to keep track of liquor case by case rather than glass by glass.
Taxes will also be collected on commercial wrapping materials -- the envelopes Federal Express and United Parcel Service use for overnight mail, for example -- which are currently not taxed.
Mr. Clymer said limiting the use of dealership automobile license plates would produce $ 5 million more in auto registration fees, and taxing software distributed by computer consultants to their clients at the retail tax rate would be worth $ 1 million.
The state also thinks it can bring in $ 15 million by changing how shoppers are taxed on coupons issued by stores. For example, if a shopper uses a coupon that knocks 25 cents off the price of a taxable item selling for $ 1, he now pays sales tax on the 75 cents. Under the proposed change, the shopper would pay tax on the full dollar. This is already how the state taxes products bought with coupons issued by manufacturers; the change would affect items bought with coupons issued by the store.
Several of these items, including the extension of the sales tax to the savings on store coupons, will require new legislation, Mr. Clymer said, although he insisted it did not constitute a new levy.
Car dealers are currently using about 25,000 dealer license plates, a number Mr. Clymer would also like to reduce to force more dealers to pay for permanent registration. Mr. Clymer did not accuse the car dealers of illegality, only of being "liberal" with use of the plates.
"And you know how we feel about liberals," Mr. Verniero, the chief counsel, interjected.
Besides extending taxes to untaxed items -- Mr. Clymer insisted that this was a matter of fairness, and did not constitute an actual tax increase -- the proposed budget relies on $ 348 million in one-shot savings achieved primarily by raiding numerous small special accounts, tightening audits, and selling state property. The one-shot figure kept faith with Mrs. Whitman's promise to reduce reliance on one-time savings, which amounted to $ 800 million in the current budget.
The Governor proposed a small increase in basic school aid for the coming budget year, from $ 2.5 billion to $ 2.7 billion, which will be divided among the state's 611 school districts.
But for the first time, the Governor would penalize school districts whose spending on administrative overhead exceeds the state average by 30 percent, a threshold that is likely to be ratcheted down as Mrs. Whitman pursues her goal of forcing economies on the state's wildly expensive school system.
In addition, the proposed budget includes $ 8 million in incentives to reward small districts that merge with larger ones, reducing the large number of districts that are too small to support high schools.
In addition to the loophole-closing, the budget seeks to increase state charges, fees and assessments by $ 19 million. The fee for a teacher's annual certification and for a notary license would each be doubled from $ 25 to $ 50 per year, for example, raising $ 950,000 more annually from the teachers and an extra $ 1 million from notaries. The license to haul fertilizer would rise from 15 cents to 25 cents per ton, and income from carnival amusement ride permits would be doubled to $ 211,000 annually.
Even walk-in use of the state's 29 motor vehicle departments will incur a penalty of $ 5 for each transaction under the proposed state fee schedule, as a way of encouraging motorists to mail in their applications and renewals and so reduce the need for counter personnel.
The new budget seeks a $ 6 million reduction in student aid, but would add $ 21.2 million to the budgets of the nine state four-year colleges, $ 6.5 million to Rutgers and the two graduate schools, and $ 5.4 million to county-run community colleges.

GRAPHIC: Photo: New Jersey's State Treasurer, Brian Clymer, outlining the budget proposed yesterday by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman. He said the budget would trim spending while maintaining essential services. (Associated Press) (pg. 28)
 
Chart: "THE LIST: The Whitman Plan" lists highlights of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's 1995-96 state budget proposal. (pg. 28)
 
Graph: "ADDING IT UP: New Jersey State Budget" tracks the annual operating budget from 1989 through 1996 and tracks the workforce from 1983 through 1995. (Source: Governor's office) (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; SALES TAX ; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AUTOMOBILES; AUTOMOBILE REGISTRATION AND LICENSE PLATES; CONTAINERS AND PACKAGING; FOOD BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); SALES TAX (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RETAIL COUPONS (71%); FOOD PACKAGING (71%); CITIES (70%); INFLATION (70%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (68%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); CLYMER, BRIAN (TREASURER) ; PETERSON, IVER CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



566 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Exhorted To Maintain Role in Africa

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The President of Eritrea, one of Africa's newest nations, has come here to urge the Clinton Administration and Congress not to let the bitter experience of Somalia lead the United States to withdraw from the continent's affairs.
The Eritrean President, Isaias Afewerki, who is on a two-week trip to the United States, said in an interview that African nations need America's diplomatic clout and economic aid to help them achieve peace, democracy and better living standards. 
 Mr. Isaias, who heads one of the world's newest democracies, a country of 3.5 million people on the Horn of Africa that became independent in May 1993 after winning a 30-year war for independence against Ethiopia, said that when he meets President Clinton on Feb. 1 he will tell him, "It's an obligation for the United States to have a major role in Africa."
The Clinton Administration gives high marks to Mr. Isaias for joining other leaders in the region in supporting diplomatic efforts to end civil wars in Somalia and the Sudan.
Mr. Isaias, 47, said he feared that many Americans wanted the United States to play a minimal role in Africa after its mission in Somalia took a disastrous turn on Oct. 3, 1993, when 18 American soldiers died there in a firefight. The United States originally sent troops to enable relief groups to distribute food throughout the war-torn country, but they became embroiled in fighting when their mission changed to hunting down Somali militia commanders.
"The United States role in Somalia was welcomed by the region, but then something went wrong," Mr. Isaias said. "But it's wrong for people to say that because of that, the United States has no role to play in that part of Africa. One particular incident should not be decisive about what America's role should be."
Mr. Isaias voiced alarm at the push by many Republicans lawmakers to slash economic aid to Africa and to eliminate the $800 million Development Fund for Africa.
"When you consider that Israel receives $3 billion in aid and that Egypt receives $2 billion, $800 million in aid for the 600 million people of Africa is not a very large amount," he said. "Slashing aid to Africa will hurt many Africans but is it going to solve America's economic problems?"
Mr. Isaias insisted, however, that he had not come to the United States with his hand out.
"Our country was devastated by 30 years of war," he said of Eritrea, once the northernmost province of Ethiopia. "We recognize that the solution to our problems will not come from foreign aid. But we need foreign aid temporarily until we can stand on our own feet."
The United States is set to give about $22 million in aid to Eritrea this year, about half of which will be emergency food relief aimed at tiding the country over until it rebounds from a lengthy drought.
Mr. Isaias is also scheduled to meet with Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Anthony Lake, President Clinton's national security adviser.
Much of Mr. Isaias's trip has been devoted to wooing investors. With its long coastline along the Red Sea, Eritrea has attracted several oil companies interested in offshore exploration. Mr. Isaias is also hoping to attract investors' interest in tourism, agriculture and his country's gold and copper deposits.
"After 30 years of war, we have many infrastructure problems: roads, telecommunications, health and education," he said.
Eritrea, which had been a semi-autonomous part of Ethiopia, began its independence fight shortly after Ethiopia annexed it in 1962. Before being elected president, Mr. Isaias led the Eritrean People's Liberation Front in its struggle against Ethiopia's Army.

GRAPHIC: Map shows the location of Eritrea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SOMALIA (96%); ERITREA (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; ERITREA; SOMALIA; AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); SOMALIA (96%); ERITREA (94%); ETHIOPIA (92%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); ARMED FORCES (70%); CIVIL WAR (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (65%); 

PERSON: AFEWERKI, ISAIAS (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



567 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Hiring Is Criticized As Cronyism

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 21

 BODY:
At a news conference the morning after his election victory, George E. Pataki promised to purge state government of "Mario Cuomo's political cronies." But three weeks into his administration, the Republican Governor is facing increasing criticism that he is simply replacing Mr. Cuomo's "cronies" with those of his own.
While Mr. Pataki has won high marks for some appointments, particularly that of the budget director, Patricia A. Woodworth, he also has been assailed for hiring a number of people with questionable qualifications for their new jobs. 
 Many are longtime Pataki friends or political supporters, or their relatives. Some have close ties to Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Mr. Pataki's political patron. And many of the most political appointments have placed men with fierce partisan loyalties in position to reward campaign contributors and party workers with state jobs, contracts, business grants and low-interest loans.
Those include the selections of a master fund-raiser, Charles A. Gargano, to serve as Commissioner of Economic Development and chairman of the Urban Development Corporation; of George C. Sinnott, the former Nassau County personnel director, to head the Civil Service Commission, and of George J. Marlin, the Conservative Party leader, as executive director the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
Some of the appointees appear well qualified for their positions, but apparently won them with the help of political friends. For instance, Neil D. Levin, a vice president with Goldman, Sachs & Company, won his appointment as Banking Superintendent with the help of Mr. D'Amato, who he once served as a Senate aide. "Dear Alfonse: Enclosed, pursuant to our conversation, is a copy of my resume," Mr. Levin wrote 10 days after the election. "As always, I really appreciate your help."
Much of the sniping about Mr. Pataki's appointments has come from top Democrats, who find themselves out of power in Albany for the first time in two decades.
"This is a very political operation," said Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Manhattan Democrat. "And it would seem to me that with all the Republicans that come from the Reagan and Bush Administrations, who are out of work in Washington, that they could have found more qualified people."
The Senate minority leader, Martin Connor, a Brooklyn Democrat, said that the three appointees that have faced Senate confirmation thus far -- Mr. Sinnott, Labor Commissioner John E. Sweeney, and Secretary of State Alexander F. Treadwell -- "have less than impressive resumes." But Mr. Connor added that the Senate Democrats "respect the right of the Governor to pick his team."
Pataki aides dismiss the criticism as partisan carping and express confidence that Mr. Pataki's appointees will prove themselves capable.
"There are those who will criticize our appointments because these appointments represent George Pataki's ideology and not the failed liberal policies of the past," said Zenia Mucha, Mr. Pataki's director of communications. "We have reached out all over the nation to find the best and the brightest. These people have been put in positions where they will be able to fulfill their potential. They will prove the critics wrong."
Gerald Benjamin, director of the Center for State and Local Government Studies at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government in Albany, said the presumption that party officials will not make effective bureaucrats is unfair. And, he added, "the recruiting base tends to be a little thin when a party's been out of power for so long."
The nomination that has received the most criticism is that of Mr. Marlin, a Pataki recommendation that is still being considered by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey. Former Port Authority officials have maintained that Mr. Marlin, an investment portfolio manager, is ill-equipped to run a far-reaching agency with 9,000 employees and a $2.6 billion budget.
Mr. Marlin is not the only appointment receiving scrutiny. The new Secretary of State, Mr. Treadwell, was an early Pataki supporter as chairman of the Essex County Republican Committee and vice chairman of the Republican State Committee. He, in turn, has hired William Powers Jr., the son of the state Republican chairman, as his $80,000-a-year first deputy.
The 30-year-old Mr. Powers is a graduate business student who has worked for his father as the director of operations for the Republican State Committee and as a manager and appraiser for the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. His father, a former aide to Mr. D'Amato, had deep influence at H.U.D. during the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
In defending the appointment of William Powers Jr., Mr. Pataki's press office released copies of his performance evaluations at H.U.D. showing that he received "outstanding" ratings and was considered "a self-starter type" by his supervisors.
The new Commissioner of Labor, Mr. Sweeney, is a lawyer who had served as executive director of the Republican State Committee. During Senate debate over Mr. Sweeney's confirmation on Tuesday, Senator Franz S. Leichter, a Manhattan Democrat, said, "I see no other qualification or reason for his appointment than his political service."
Similar criticism has been leveled at the Parks Commissioner, Bernadette Castro, an executive in her family's sofa company and the unsuccessful Republican candidate for United States Senate last year. Ms. Castro acknowledges that she has visited only a few state parks.
Democrats also have questioned the credentials of Richard E. Jackson, the Motor Vehicles Commissioner and a boyhood friend of Mr. Pataki and his successor as the part-time Mayor of Peekskill. Mr. Jackson has had no extensive exposure to the Department of Motor Vehicles (other than the 16-day suspension of his driver's license in 1991 for not responding to a 1989 summons for failing to wear a seat belt).
Several top Pataki appointees are relatives of the Governor's friends and supporters.
Constance Barrella, the woman hired by Mr. Pataki as deputy commissioner of environmental conservation, a $90,000-a-year job, is a former lobbyist for food retailers and the sister-in-law of Michael C. Finnegan, Mr. Pataki's counsel. Her resume does not include any direct experience in the environmental field. Mary Buchan, hired as a $32,500 administrative assistant for Lieut. Gov. Elizabeth P. McCaughey, is the wife of the Albany County Republican leader, Dennis Buchan.
Shoshana Hikind, who was hired as Mr. Pataki's $45,000 director of community affairs in New York City, is the wife of Assemblyman Dov Hikind, a Brooklyn Democrat who crossed party lines to endorse Mr. Pataki. Her resume lists her experience as constituent relations for her husband and her directorship of The Jerusalem Reclamation Project. In the resume, she touts her "diplomatic talent, sensitivity and exuberant personality."
Even some appointees who are considered highly qualified for their positions have family connections. Barbara Ann DeBuono, the Rhode Island health director nominated by Mr. Pataki to be New York's health commissioner, is the sister-in-law of Richard L. Farren, Mr. Pataki's personal attorney and a member of his transition team.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki has drawn criticism for hiring a number of people with questionable qualifications for their new jobs. (David Jennings for The New York Times) (pg. 31)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (67%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%); REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE (65%); FORMER PORT AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN STATE COMMITTEE (65%); FORMER PORT AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; PATRONAGE APPOINTMENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUDGETS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (66%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); SACK, KEVIN; GARGANO, CHARLES A; SINNOTT, GEORGE C; MARLIN, GEORGE J RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



568 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: The Return of the Subway Token Dance

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS 

 BODY:
A decade ago, George Fasel, a Bankers Trust vice president, discovered a quirky truism about New York City's subway fare: the cost of a ride roughly parallels the price of a slice of pizza. In the Brooklyn neighborhood that is home to Jay Walder, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's executive director, pizza now sells for $1.50 a slice.
Whether that means the fare is about to rise is arguable, although virtually everyone involved agrees that the current $1.25 will not last much longer because of growing costs and shrinking city, state and Federal subsidies. 
 The question, then, is how much the fare will rise, and whether the increase will cover the cost of the proposed discount pricing system that would provide for free transfers between subways and buses.
One thing is certain: before any final decision is made on whether and how much to raise the fare, New Yorkers will be treated to the ritual finger-pointing and posturing over how much money the transit system should get from Albany and City Hall, with warnings of grave consequences for mass transit if the money is not forthcoming.
The M.T.A. had been projecting as far back as two years ago that the fare would rise to $1.50 this month, but with increasing ridership and the promise of subsidies from the state and city, the authority concluded that that increase could be put off for two years if the fare rose to $1.35 in July 1995.
But now, with budget cutting the dominant theme in Washington, Albany and City Hall, money that transit officials have long counted on may suddenly disappear, and the M.T.A. is warning that the fare will have to rise to $1.50 much sooner, if earlier promises of subsidies are not honored.
The M.T.A. says that in the most dire circumstances, the system could find itself in an $800 million hole.
Were riders to bear the full cost of operating the system and fill that $800 million gap, their tokens would cost roughly $2.50, a price that gourmet pizza lovers might stand for but that subway riders would not. As it is, riders now pay about 55 percent of the system's operating costs, a higher proportion than passengers pay on commuter railroads in the metropolitan area and on mass transit in other major American cities.
"There is no right or wrong answer to what level the fare should be," Mr. Walder said. "It's a public policy call."
The latest debate revolves around the Giuliani administration's refusal to reimburse the agency for rides by schoolchildren and its threat to withhold transit police money because the M.T.A. board has blocked a proposed merger with the New York City Police Department.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, frustrated with an agency that, like the Board of Education, is subsidized but not controlled by City Hall, replied characteristically that the M.T.A. should follow the city's example and cut bureaucratic fat before increasing the subway and bus fare.
Peter J. Powers, the First Deputy Mayor, said, "The burden is on them."
Transit officials counter that since 1990, their operating budget has actually increased more slowly than inflation because the work force is more efficient and executives have generally been more cost conscious.
"We have cut costs while improving the quality of service," said Peter E. Stangl, the M.T.A. chairman.
The M.T.A. argues that though cuts were made, its back is now against the wall with the prospect of reduced subsidies. And even the Giuliani administration, which contends that there is fat in the Transit Authority's budget, acknowledges that the price of a token is unlikely to hold fast even if that fat is sliced away.
Asked whether fares would rise this year, the city's budget director, Marc V. Shaw, said, "Given state and Federal actions, yes."
Conflicts between City Hall and transit officials have been more predictable than train schedules, from as early as the inaugural run of the Interborough Rapid Transit system in 1904. The indulgence of railroad executives quickly gave way to alarm when Mayor George B. McClellan refused to relinquish the controls during what was supposed to be a ceremonial appearance in a subway cab.
"I'm running this train," he declared.
In the 1920's, Mayor John F. Hylan's animus toward what later became the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company encouraged him to create the city-owned Independent system, which often competed with, rather than complemented, the private lines.
While inflation devalued the nickel and the Depression decimated ridership, the five-cent fare remained politically sacrosanct for 44 years. In 1948, Mayor William O'Dwyer, his left flank shielded by the Transport Workers Union's realization that a higher fare would mean more money for higher wages, doubled the fare to a dime. In the subsequent 44 years, the fare was raised 11 times.
In the 1920's, as Clifton Hood writes in "722 Miles: The Building of the Subways and How They Transformed New York" (Simon & Schuster, 1993), the state kept control over existing lines to protect Republican patronage jobs; the city was empowered to build a municipally owned system, but only if, after three years, the fare would fully cover operating costs and debt. That caveat was later amended.
Even with government subsidies, the transit system fell into decay by the 1970's. That decline was reversed in the mid-1980's only as a result of an innovative partnership with other levels of government, devised by the M.T.A. chairman Richard Ravitch and aggressively applied by his successor, Robert R. Kiley.
Under the latest incarnation of that partnership, approved in 1993, the city was supposed to maintain its contributions. The state, which had already dedicated all or part of nearly a dozen taxes to pay for mass transit, kicked in with more. The partners had other problems, though.
Beginning under the Dinkins administration, the city pared its contribution for construction. Last summer, the city stopped the school pass reimbursement, discovering what City Hall insisted was a $100 million transit surplus but what M.T.A. officials characterized as a dividend to be reinvested to defray costs this year.
Then, the Mayor threatened to withhold $320 million a year from the transit police unless the M.T.A. agreed to the police merger.
Suggesting that transit officials ask the state to reimburse student transporation costs and that they capitulate on the merger issue, Mr. Shaw, the city budget director, said, "Both of our actions can be rationally explained as not leading to a fare increase unless they take certain actions."
Mr. Walder, the M.T.A.'s executive director, said: "We're not arguing that we don't expect to be part of the solution. The Mayor and Governor are right: there are more efficient ways of achieving our objectives, and we should challenge ourselves on that. But we should not lose sight of that objective: ridership growth with better service and pricing incentives."
Given the financial pressures on Mr. Giuliani and on Gov. George E. Pataki, who must submit his first budget Feb. 1 and is mulling a successor to Mr. Stangl, would cooperation rather than confrontation really generate more money for transit?
"The answer is, I don't know," Mr. Stangl said. "But I am naive enough to think that's the best way to go. Because for each of them to suggest that cutting significant amounts of money doesn't have consequences for the public is a bit unfair. To minimize the antagonism that is not in the public interest, someone has to take a leadership role, and the only one who can do that is the Governor."


GRAPHIC: Subway fare increases have generally corresponded to the Consumer Price Index over time, but unscientific surveys have found a more startling correlation: between the price of a tken and the price of a pizza slice. While tha might portend an 10-cent increase in the price of a token, uncertainties like the political mood in Albany and mozzarella prices could undermine the correlation.
Graph: "DOLLARS AND CENTS: Subway Fares and the Pizza Connection"
 Graph compares the price of a subway token with a slice of pizza from 1950 through 1994. (Sources: Metropolitan Transportation Authority; Andrew Bellkucci, pizza expert and co-owner of Lombardi's Pizza in Soho)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA) METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (MTA)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FARES; SUBWAYS; PIZZA PIES; PRICES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (77%); CHILDREN (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); MAYORS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); 

PERSON: ROBERTS, SAM RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



569 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Tough Act to Follow

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
The Republican rookies newly installed in Albany and Hartford will no doubt snap up copies of the budget outline released today by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, hoping to draw strength from the 23-page report as if it were the latest dose of some potent political elixir.
After all, Mrs. Whitman's tax-cutting prowess in her first year in office in New Jersey was cited so often in the fall elections in nearby states that her name seemed to enter the lingua franca of the campaign trail. When George E. Pataki repeatedly told New Yorkers that he was a Whitman Republican, most knew what course he wanted to set for the state. 
 But now that Mr. Pataki is Governor of New York and another Republican, John G. Rowland, has taken office in Connecticut, wearing the Whitman mantle may turn burdensome for them. Today, Governor Whitman began venturing into more treacherous terrain in her quest to reduce state income taxes by a total of 30 percent by 1998. And whether or not she stumbles, she could eventually help trip up the newcomers.
The region is unified under a Republican banner that includes Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, and all four leaders have pledged to chisel away at long-sacred expenditures. Given Mrs. Whitman's popularity here and her growing national stature, the new governors can expect that in the coming months they will often be weighed against her.
Mrs. Whitman accomplished her first round of tax cuts largely by altering the formula for contributions to state workers' pension funds, a move that critics called a fiscally risky gimmick that would push costs to future governors -- and taxpayers. But aside from protests by unions, there was not much of an outcry around the state.
Today Mrs. Whitman announced that she would be laying off state workers, raising fees and paring down programs, all in an effort to reduce state income taxes further. Should she run into serious turbulence doing this, Democrats in New York and Connecticut might be able to use that to bolster opposition to Mr. Pataki and Mr. Rowland.
Voters got a glimpse of such tactics in the New York gubernatorial race, when the campaign of the incumbent, Mario M. Cuomo, rounded up a group of New Jersey mayors to criticize Mr. Pataki's proposal to cut state income taxes by 25 percent. The mayors said property taxes had risen and their municipalities had been hurt because of Mrs. Whitman, warning that New Yorkers would suffer similarly.
"What she has done so far is cut 15 percent by relying on the pension shuffle as a big part of her strategy," said Steven D. Gold, director of fiscal studies at the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York. "It gets a lot harder from here on in for her. Pataki and Rowland for political reasons would like to say, 'Look what she's done,' but she hasn't done anywhere near as much as she has said in her professed goals."
Even if Mrs. Whitman sails through this year's budget battles, her success might still be nettlesome to Mr. Pataki and Mr. Rowland. Each told voters that he would bring Whitman-style changes, but each appears to be facing greater hurdles than she. When they encounter resistance, they may be questioned about why they have not performed as she has.
Mr. Pataki came into office with a projected $5 billion budget deficit, an economy that has stalled, one house of the Legislature controlled by Democrats and one part of the state -- New York City -- where he has weak support.
In Connecticut, Mr. Rowland has set forth a daunting goal, eliminating the state income tax, and must contend with a House of Representatives run by Democrats. He won quickly on his first strong budget measure, rolling back raises for state workers, only because he needed the approval of just one house of the Legislature, and he received it from the Republican-controlled Senate.
In New Jersey, Mrs. Whitman has had a stronger economy that has increased sales tax receipts, a Legislature dominated by Republicans and the advantage of being the first Governor in the region to call strongly for tax cuts. She was elected in 1993 and came into office with the budget balanced by her predecessor.
At a news conference today, Mrs. Whitman's chief counsel, Peter Verniero, said her budget proposal would require 20 separate pieces of legislation. She is expected to have little trouble getting those approved.
Stephen A. Salmore, a professor of political science at Rutgers University who also works as a consultant for Republicans, said, "In Connecticut and New York, they have different problems and they have bigger problems."
He added: "The Rowland pledge was to get rid of the income tax, and that's tough. Pataki has a larger structural deficit, a weaker economy and a lower bond rating, which is going to make it more difficult for him to do the kinds of refinancing and restructuring that Whitman did."
John Chapin, Mr. Rowland's director of communications, said the Governor would examine Mrs. Whitman's budget closely but does not intend to mimic her proposals. He said Mr. Rowland also believes that Connecticut residents understand that the fiscal and political situations in the two states are different.
"Governor Rowland is a big Christie Whitman fan, as many people are, but the influence of Governor Whitman is felt more on the stylistic plane than on the specific policy plane," Mr. Chapin said.
"She caused a number of governors to be emboldened to the thought that they really could shake up the status quo, that you didn't have to leave all campaign promises behind as rhetoric. The nature of where the budget dysfunction exists in New Jersey and Connecticut is different, but the idea of an aggressive change campaign is the same."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (86%); CIVIL SERVICES (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (72%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); LEVY, CLIFFORD J RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



570 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Charities Squeezed as Demand Grows While Private and Government Aid Drops

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
As government budget cuts threaten soup kitchens, homeless shelters and day-care centers, New York City's poor are depending more than ever on private charities. But after a spate of generosity during the holiday season, contributions to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund have dwindled to a five-year low.
If donations stop, the seven charities aided by the campaign might have to reduce or even eliminate programs for the city's poorest residents. Facing severe cuts in government financing, these agencies will depend on private contributions to fulfill the most basic of needs. 
 By today, the Neediest Cases fund has raised $3,551,304.86 -- $98,022 less than last year on this date. To surpass last year's total of $4,590,568.69, the fund would have to raise more than $1 million in the next six weeks. To match the 1992 total -- the highest ever -- it would have to receive $1,532,246. This year's campaign, the 83d, ends on Feb. 28. It is not too late to give.
Since 1912, the fund has helped destitute New Yorkers find their way out of homelessness, unemployment, mental illness, drug addiction and numerous other problems. Every day of the year, money from the fund helps poor, sick and disabled people survive.
The Children's Aid Society depends on the fund to provide poor families with necessities like food, clothing and furniture. The Community Service Society of New York uses the money to help clients through crises, paying utility bills or a month's rent. And the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service puts money from the fund toward rehabilitation programs for hundreds of disabled adults.
"With such extensive government cutbacks, we are struggling to maintain the most fundamental services," said Stephen D. Solender, executive vice president of UJA-Federation of New York.
Many people have doubled or tripled their gifts this year -- often in spite of their own financial struggles. Still, the number of donors has decreased. By Jan. 14, the fund had received 8,618 donations -- 1,082 fewer than last year on that date.
Because The Times pays the administrative costs of the campaign, all donations are sent directly to the seven social-service agencies. This year, the fund has helped an abused woman and her four small children furnish a new apartment. It has paid for a high school boy's graduation suit, and provided a homemaker to help a disabled woman care for her toddler.
Philip Coltoff, executive director of the Children's Aid Society, said he realized that many people felt overwhelmed by recent disasters like the earthquake in Japan and the floods in California.
But he added that New Yorkers should not forget about the more subtle problems in their own city.
"In the midst of so many world tragedies, we have stopped seeing the small tragedies that happen in our city every day," Mr. Coltoff said. "These are the problems we have to remember year in and year out. And without money from the Neediest Cases, these are the problems that could go unsolved."

Previously recorded $3,547,425.86
Recorded Friday
(Last business day) $3,879.00
 
Total $3,551,304.86

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (69%); AID SOCIETY (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (69%); AID SOCIETY (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (86%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); CHILD WELFARE (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); MENTAL ILLNESS (66%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY PHILIP COLTOFF (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



571 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON WILL SEEK SPENDING TO CURB ALIENS, AIDES SAY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21

 BODY:
Balancing new political realities with old political commitments, President Clinton will soon propose a major increase in the budget for enforcing immigration laws and labor standards, Administration officials said today. He is also believed to be leaning in favor of a proposal to increase the minimum wage.
Republicans in Congress are likely to propose even bigger increases in spending for immigration enforcement, especially for expansion of the Border Patrol. But the Republicans are divided over plans to increase inspections of factories and other work sites. 
 White House officials said the President would probably propose an increase in the minimum wage, as advocated by Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich. Mr. Clinton supported such an increase in the 1992 Presidential campaign, but aides said he had not decided whether to mention the idea in his State of the Union Message on Tuesday. Michael D. McCurry, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Clinton was still weighing the recommendations of his economic advisers.
The issues provide two examples of how Mr. Clinton hopes to respond to the political shift since Republicans won control of Congress.
Administration officials said that in promising to move against illegal immigration, the President hoped to beat Republicans to the punch on a topic of great concern to moderate voters who deserted the Democrats in November. By contrast, a proposal to increase the minimum wage would appeal to a traditional core Democratic group.
With Republicans controlling the House and the Senate, Congress appears unlikely to raise the minimum wage in the next two years. Many Republicans contend that any substantial increase would cause a loss of jobs.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, recently introduced a bill to raise the minimum wage to $5.75 an hour from the current $4.25 in increments of 50 cents a year over three years. Labor unions support the Kennedy proposal and say they worry that Mr. Clinton will seek an increase of only 75 cents, to $5 an hour.
Mr. Reich contends that raising the minimum wage is one way to halt growing inequality in the distribution of income. "If we don't grow together," he said, "if we continue to grow apart, this country is going to pay a huge price in terms of its stability and its prosperity."
Mr. Clinton will use his speech on Tuesday to redefine his Presidency, to portray himself as a champion of the middle class and to articulate his vision for the next century, explaining how Government can help workers ride the roller coaster of economic change.
The bipartisan desire to increase the budget of the immigration service is an exception to the general push by President Clinton and Congress to cut employment and spending at Federal agencies. Those cuts will help pay for the new immigration initiatives, but Mr. Clinton will not disclose details of all the cuts until he sends his budget request to Congress next month.
Confidential budget documents show that the Administration is drafting ambitious proposals to combat illegal immigration, which supplies cheap labor for low-wage, low-skill jobs that might be held by American workers. A Justice Department official said the Administration was racing Congress to see who would "be first with the most on immigration issues."
The official said the Administration was acutely aware of Proposition 187 in California, which would make illegal aliens ineligible for most public social services, and the Republicans' "Contract With America," which would go further, denying welfare benefits to most legal aliens as well.
"Public attitudes will become more xenophobic unless we are given the muscle and resources to deal with the problem of illegal immigration," the official said.
Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration, said in an interview that the Administration "seems to have had an election-night conversion on this issue."
But immigration officials said Congress was partly responsible for the problem because it had appropriated less money than they requested in recent years for certain enforcement activities.
Budget plans being drafted by the Administration would step up enforcement of the ban on hiring illegal aliens and increase investigations of those who smuggle aliens into the country or provide them with fraudulent identification documents. The draft budget calls for hiring 650 investigators, an increase of 41 percent over the 1,600 at the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which is part of the Justice Department.
Mr. Clinton will also seek $131 million to detain and deport aliens who have committed crimes or are here illegally, doubling the agency's capacity to expel criminal aliens. And he will also propose $15 million to build detention centers in Buffalo and San Francisco.
For the fiscal year that began last Oct. 1, Congress increased the budget of the immigration service by 25 percent to $2 billion. Lawmakers say they will closely supervise use of the money because the immigration service has a long history of poor management, documented in dozens of Federal audits.
The Administration began drafting its 1996 proposals before devaluation of the peso caused concern that hundreds of thousands of Mexicans might cross the border illegally to seek work in the United States. Members of Congress and immigration officials said the crisis in Mexico underlined the need for tougher immigration measures.
Administration officials advocate a balance between controlling the border and policing work sites to discourage the hiring of illegal aliens. Some Republicans favor a balanced approach, but others oppose the whole idea of employer sanctions as a burden on employers.
Enforcement of the employer sanctions law, through additional workplace inspections, would concentrate on New York, California, Florida, Texas, Illinois, Arizona and New Jersey, officials said. Investigators would focus on industries like construction, agriculture, hotels and restaurants, which have a history of employing illegal aliens. But inspections would be random in each industry.
The budget also calls for a substantial increase in the number of investigators at the wage and hour division of the Labor Department. The Labor Department would play a bigger role in enforcing immigration laws and could propose fines against employers who failed to verify the identity and citizenship status of job applicants.
A Labor Department official said his inspectors were willing to enforce employers' obligations under the immigration law but wanted to avoid conflicts with their primary mission. "We can't be in the business of identifying, apprehending and deporting workers," he said. "Our ability to do our job depends on the cooperation of workers who tell us about violations of wage and hour laws. The labor laws protect all workers, including undocumented workers."
In a monograph four years ago, Doris M. Meissner, now Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said, "We know that employers who violate one labor law are likely to violate most labor laws." The 1986 ban on employment of illegal aliens is a labor standard, she said, and the Labor Department should be "a full partner" in enforcing it.
Administration officials said Mr. Clinton's proposal would reverse a decline in enforcement of wage and hour laws under prior administrations. The wage and hour division of the Labor Department had well over 1,000 investigators in the 1980's, but the number has decreased steadily, to 961 in 1990 and 791 at the end of 1994.
The Justice Department is also increasing the number of immigration judges, to speed up decisions on expelling aliens. It plans to add 63 judges to the 116 already on the bench, an increase of 54 percent.
A Federal advisory commission recently proposed that the Government establish a computerized register of the names and Social Security numbers of citizens and aliens authorized to work in the United States, so that employers could check the immigration status of job applicants. President Clinton will seek $8.3 million for a pilot program to evaluate the effectiveness of such a system.
The President will also propose increasing the size of the Border Patrol, but his increase is more modest than those favored by some in Congress.
The Border Patrol had 4,367 agents at the end of last month and plans to hire 600 to 700 this year under current law. The President's budget will seek 500 more agents for 1996.
By contrast, Representative Smith and Senator Phil Gramm, the Texas Republican who heads the Appropriations subcommittee responsible for the Justice Department, say they want to double the size of the Border Patrol. They propose adding 1,000 agents in each of the next five years, so the Border Patrol would have 10,000 agents in the year 2000.
In a recent memorandum, the immigration service cautioned the White House: "Whatever we propose, it should be within the realm of reality, of what we could possibly carry out. There's only so many Border Patrol agents we can bring on and train in a given year."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON&CONGRESS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON&CONGRESS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MINIMUM WAGE; LABOR ; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY IMMIGRATION (93%); MINIMUM WAGE (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); LAYOFFS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); BORDER CONTROL (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN) ; PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (93%); TED KENNEDY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



572 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Holy Bull, Front and Center;
Red Carpet Is Rolled Out for Gray Super Colt's '95 Debut

BYLINE: By JOSEPH DURSO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HALLANDALE, Fla., Jan. 21

 BODY:
Luciano Pavarotti will be singing on South Beach in Miami before a crowd of maybe 200,000 people late Sunday afternoon, and the San Francisco 49ers will be flying into town for the Super Bowl game, with the San Diego Chargers right behind. But up the road here at Gulfstream Park, another star will be taking another stage for another run at racing history, and the marquee outside the gate has had it right all week: Holy Bull's 1995 Debut.
He is big and brawny. He has gained 40 pounds and now weighs around 1,170. He stands well over 16 hands. He covers as much ground in two strides as most horses do in three. His girth measures 72 inches -- just a couple of inches less than the renowned Secretariat of 20 years ago. And the comparisons don't end there. 
 Holy Bull gets fan mail by the sack, carrots by the bushel and visitors by the flock. And he was voted the 3-year-old champion of 1994 last week, and will be voted the Horse of the Year next week.
He is the great gray supercolt Holy Bull, and he absolutely reigns over the sport from stall 43, barn 3, on the Gulfstream Park backstretch.
Holy Bull hasn't raced in four months, not since he won the Woodward at Belmont Park last September and went home for the winter, his two years at the races having earned 12 victories in 14 starts and $2.4 million for his owner and trainer, Jimmy Croll, the 74-year-old Pennsylvanian who inherited him from Rachel Carpenter.
"He's one of those freaks who comes along," Croll said the other morning outside his barn. "If you knew why, you'd do it again."
But this is a new year and a new show, and Holy Bull will go to the post under Mike Smith on Sunday afternoon for his 1995 debut in the seven-furlong Olympic Stakes. When his year is ended in October, he will retire to stud at the age of 4, and let racing historians make the ultimate comparisons.
"There will be nothing more to prove," Croll said. "It will be sad, but he has given us everything."
Before it is ended, the Bull will take a victory lap of America that may include the Donn Handicap at Gulfstream Park on Feb. 11, the Santa Anita Handicap in California on March 11, the Metropolitan Mile at Belmont Park in late May, the Iselin at Monmouth in New Jersey in late July, the Woodward again at Belmont in September and, for the final flourish, the Breeders' Cup Classic at Belmont late in October, a race that he skipped last year just as he had skipped the Preakness and Belmont Stakes.
Race tracks on both coasts are raising purses and otherwise rolling out the red carpet to attract Holy Bull, and the rivals to challenge him. Gulfstream doubled the purse for the Olympic to $100,000 and revised the distribution: The winner gets 50 percent of $100,000 instead of the customary 60 percent of $50,000, the second horse gets $18,000, the third gets $10,000, fourth is worth $7,000 and fifth, $5,000. And, according to the new economics of the age of Holy Bull, "all remaining starters will receive $4,000."
Since only five other horses were coaxed into the race, every horse going to the post will be taking an expenses-paid trip. In addition, one of those horses actually has a chance of winning since Croll has not cranked up Holy Bull too tightly for his first race of the year. He will be tested by Patton, who zipped six furlongs in 1:083/5 here two weeks ago, and Birdonthewire, who finished sixth, only four lengths behind the winner in the Breeders' Cup Sprint last Nov. 5.
The Gulfstream oddsmaker made Holy Bull the 3-5 favorite, Patton next at 5-2, Birdonthewire at 4-1 and then the others: Dusty Screen at 12-1, Hudson Bay at 20-1 and Lynn's Notebook at 30-1.
"He might lose," Croll warned. "People don't understand you can't wind up a horse too early in the year. One or two others in the race are ready. He's not quite there.
"We're trying to accomplish a lot in a short time. He stopped after the Woodward last September. He went back into training on Nov. 16, walked around the barn a couple of days. He went back to the track on Nov. 18. It's a tight schedule, and there's so much to do. You have to get that base under him."
Croll reflected on what he had wrought, and said, "He's maybe 90 percent of himself."
But to most people, 90 percent of Holy Bull would be plenty.
"It all started last spring at Keeneland, where the barn area is open to visitors," Croll said. "He hadn't done that much by then as a 3-year-old, but they came. I've had more than 100 letters. Artists come by wanting to paint him. Requests for pictures, and requests to take his picture. A guy in Holland keeps asking for a piece of his tail or his mane.
"I'm not sure where the mystique comes from. His color. How many great gray horses have there been? Then, his style: He goes out in front and dares them to catch him. Finally, there was a little story behind him, about Mrs. Carpenter leaving him to me."
Dr. Pete Hall, the veterinarian who now travels with Holy Bull, fed the horse a carrot and said:
"Maybe 1 percent of the horse population is gray, and very few great ones. You have Native Dancer, Spectacular Bid, Lady's Secret and not many more. And he's got personality. He has a bit of the devil in him. He loves people.
"They brought five handicapped kids to the barn one day to meet him, and the kids asked if they could feed him carrots. He loves carrots. Normally, he'll grab a carrot out of your hand. But he must have sensed something this time. Ever so gently, he practically licked the carrots off their hands."
Holy Bull's love for carrots created a crisis in his countdown to the Olympic. One week ago, he suddenly stopped eating.
"He started to slow down Friday, he ate next to nothing on Saturday, and nothing on Sunday," Croll said. "We checked him inside and out, took blood, couldn't find anything. So, I had to decide if he was going to blow the race. But he had no temperature, no sharp teeth, no blockage in his intestines, nothing. I figured maybe he was constipated from eating carrots. They gave us a bushel of them on opening day.
"So, we pumped a gallon of oil into him, and he snapped out of it. He turned right around, and started eating again. I worked him out Wednesday, and he went six furlongs in 1:12 out of the starting gate."
"I'm looking forward to 1995," Croll said. "It would be tough to top last year. But I hope he can match it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Perna, an exercise rider, taking Holy Bull through a morning run. The colt will be making his 1995 debut at Gulfstream Park today. (Bill Denver)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (51%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (84%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (84%); SAN FRANCISCO 49ERS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (73%); NEW JERSEY, USA (51%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING; HOLY BULL (RACE HORSE) SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); HORSES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (76%); HISTORY (71%); 

PERSON: DURSO, JOSEPH; CROLL, JIMMY LUCIANO PAVAROTTI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



573 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: Investors Must Be Patient With Mexico

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Peso's Woes: A Very Familiar Diminuendo" (Market Watch, Dec. 25) points out that the peso's devaluation should not have come as a shock to experienced international investors, and indeed, Mexico is an emerging market in which large corrections are more commonplace. For many thousands of less experienced investors, however, the impact was more unsettling. 
 The drop in the Mexico Fund and redemptions in open-end funds by such investors are disturbing from another perspective. Although Latin American stock and bond fund redemptions were modest, such redemptions continue to illustrate the lack of commitment many investors have toward a long-term investment strategy. When an investment adviser discusses long-term commitment with a client-investor, the understanding is that the client-investor will ride out volatile swings and that longer investment time frames would support that strategy. The one taboo is bailing out in crisis situations. Dollar averaging is promoted instead as an opportunity to increase shares in a fundamentally good investment.
The fundamentals are there in Mexico as well as in most other Latin American emerging markets. The patient investor, with long-term goals and a steady hand, should hold through situations like this and not be frightened into a rash decision.
 
JOHN F. O'SULLIVAN
South Plainfield, N.J., Dec. 26
 
The writer is a certified financial planner.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (64%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (64%); NEW JERSEY, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS EMERGING MARKETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DEVALUATION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); TRENDS (75%); WRITERS (73%); BONDS (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); BOND FUNDS (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



574 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: A Debate Over Punitive Damages

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In "Stop the Misuse of Punitive Awards" (Viewpoints, Dec. 25), Richard A. Booth decries the $5 billion punitive award that an Alaska jury assessed against Exxon for its 1989 oil spill in Prince William Sound. Exxon clearly deserves this verdict for its arrogant and irresponsible corporate behavior. 
 For years after the decline in oil prices, Exxon managers reduced the number of people responsible for environmental compliance. They delayed repairs for refinery, pipeline and other equipment to save money.
At Exxon's recent trial, the jury decided to impose punitive damages of $5 billion (just three weeks of gross revenue for Exxon) not only to punish the company for its recklessness but also to deter it from committing similar acts. While jail terms for some Exxon executives might have been more appropriate, the jury figured that the only way to force mega-corporations like Exxon to shoulder responsibility is to hit them in their bank accounts. And Exxon's bank account is one of corporate America's biggest. With 1993 revenues of $111 billion, a rare triple-A credit rating and profits of more than $5 billion a year, a one-time $5 billion fine will barely make a dent.
The spill from the Exxon Valdez, while not intentional, was also not an accident. It was the result of recklessness. Exxon's executives have acted for decades as if the law did not apply to them or their company. In recent years, Exxon illegally fouled waterways in New York and New Jersey, and it was ranked by the Council on Economic Priorities as one of America's worst corporate polluters. On top of all this, Exxon has led fights against better health, safety and environmental regulations -- including a requirement for double-hulling of tankers.
While Exxon is spending several million dollars trying to convince opinion leaders that a $5 billion punitive award is extreme, we should consider what would happen if Exxon is not held accountable. If corporate executives are not forced to think about the consequences of their actions, then we will tell Exxon and other polluters that it is O.K. to pollute the water and the air and harm the health and safety of America's citizens.
 
EDWIN S. ROTHSCHILD
Washington, Dec. 29
 
The writer, energy policy director of Citizen Action, a national consumer group, led a consumer boycott of Exxon after the Exxon Valdez oil spill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (94%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP EXXON MOBIL CORP (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXXON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA; PRINCE WILLIAM SOUND (ALASKA); UNITED STATES (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION PUNITIVE DAMAGES (93%); DAMAGES (92%); VERDICTS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); OIL SPILLS (90%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); LITIGATION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); MARINE TANKERS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); WRITERS (73%); MARINE SHIPPING (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (69%); RANKINGS (64%); BOYCOTTS (64%); 

PERSON: BOOTH, RICHARD A

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



575 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: A Debate Over Punitive Damages

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Why should a plaintiff, presumably a victim, be allowed to "punish" an offender? This practice smacks of economic vigilantism. By all means, let a deserving plaintiff be made whole, but penalizing a defendant for reckless behavior is normally the province of the state. Punitive awards should be treated like a fine. If not directed to the public coffers, then the levy should be earmarked for the area involved, e.g. a highway safety fund if the defendant happens to be an auto manufacturer.
 
ROBERT J. VOLTILE
Wilton, Conn., Dec. 25

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: XON (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (59%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: EXXON CORP EXXON CORP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EXXON CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: PRINCE WILLIAM SOUND (ALASKA); ALASKA; UNITED STATES (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SHIPS AND SHIPPING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY DAMAGES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (90%); LITIGATION (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); AUTOMAKERS (50%); 

PERSON: BOOTH, RICHARD A

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



576 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: Let Mexico Disclose Its Foreign Reserves

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Mexico's devaluation of the peso by close to 35 percent and the policy leading up to the devaluation is a disaster. It was caused by Mexico's failure to curb the large trade deficits that resulted from an orgy of consumer buying coupled with Mexico's hiding its dollar reserves from public scrutiny. 
 Millions of United States investors, individuals and institutions that relied on the Mexican Government's integrity have lost billions of dollars.
 We are not going to have real free trade or world trade until and unless everyone plays by the same rules.
 The Mexican Government does not regularly disclose its foreign reserves, and if a company regulated and registered in the United States must file regularly with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and must file major changes of circumstances regularly, why shouldn't a foreign government, selling its bonds and some securities in privatized companies in United States markets be required to do the same?
 It has been the failure of Mexico to live up to the same standards as a United States company that helped make this disaster possible.
 The Securities and Exchange Commission should require Mexico and other countries selling their securities in this country to make at least weekly or monthly disclosures of foreign reserves so that the public can determine for itself the status of the economy.
 Foreign reserves are as important to determine the credibility of a currency of a foreign country as the balance sheet is to determine the credibility of a private corporation, and devaluations take place when these foreign reserves fall. If regular disclosure were required, not only would the public be aware of these reserves, but also the disclosure process might assist in forcing governments to act responsibly.
 I was also amazed to read that the Mexican finance minister had with him this month at a lunch at a New York hotel a man who, according to a reputable financial magazine, controls companies that account for 25 percent of the entire Mexican stock market, including the telephone company of Mexico. Where is that disclosed in any prospectus issued on Mexico?
 
LAURENCE W. LEVINE
New York, Jan. 16, 1995
The writer, a lawyer, was a director of the Argentine American Chamber of Commerce, 1962-94.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: BOLSA (BMV) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (58%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEVALUATION (90%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WRITERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); PRIVATIZATION (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



577 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2394 words

HEADLINE: Some Co-ops Still Struggle With Default

BYLINE: By NICK RAVO

 BODY:
LIKE thousands of New Yorkers eager to join the real estate gold rush in the mid-1980's, Eric Marcus bought an apartment in a newly converted co-op building. And like many New Yorkers in the mid-1990's, Mr. Marcus has seen his investment collapse.
His co-op, the Lincoln Spencer on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, is in foreclosure; his equity, about $ 25,000, is in danger; his 350-square-foot studio, bought for $ 65,000, is unsalable. 
Even if he rented the apartment out, he says, the money would not cover the $ 486 monthly payments on his loan and the unit's $ 613-a-month maintenance.
 "Buying in this building was like buying swampland in Florida, except that people didn't live in the swampland," said Mr. Marcus, a writer and vice president of his co-op's board of directors. "We were young and stupid."
 It has been six years since large numbers of co-ops in New York and its suburbs started falling into default and, less often, foreclosure on their underlying mortgages. At the peak of the crisis, hundreds of buildings were afflicted by financial ailments of varying degrees of severity sparked by a variety of causes.
 Gary R. Connor, the deputy New York State attorney general who heads the state's Real Estate Finance Bureau, estimated that 10 percent of the 4,000 buildings converted to co-ops in the city since 1980 have, at one point, fallen into default, a category that can range from one missed payment to several missed payments to foreclosure and, the ultimate -- and extremely rare -- nightmare for those involved, deconversion.
 Some co-ops are still struggling. Mr. Connor estimated that about 60 buildings in the city -- 15 percent of the 10 percent that went into default -- are currently behind in their underlying mortgage payments.
 "It was a rolling process," Mr. Connor said. "We started to see a large number of defaults in late 1989 and early 1990. Some were resolved fairly quickly. Some took two or three years to get worked out."
 "Most co-ops in the city are healthy now, though," he said.
To decipher the arcane financial troubles that have hurt many co-op buyers in New York, it is first important to understand the difference between a share loan and the underlying mortgage.
 The underlying mortgage is the loan used to buy, renovate or maintain the building. It can be taken out by existing shareholders or, in the case of conversions from rental to co-op, by a developer, or sponsor.
 During a conversion, the obligation to repay the underlying mortgage is transferred from the sponsor to the co-op corporation, which now holds the shares in the building -- although the sponsor may, and usually does, continue to own many or even all shares in the co-op corporation.
 The sponsor then starts to sell its shares to individuals. The buyers, using cash or share loans to buy their shares, become part-owners of the co-op; they are also given leases for apartments that relate to the number of shares they purchased. To pay off the co-op's underlying mortgage, the shareholders make maintenance payments, which are also used for taxes, repairs, cash reserves and operating expenses.
Most of the problems, according to Stuart M. Saft, a Manhattan real estate lawyer and chairman of the Council of New York Cooperatives, occurred when co-op sponsors saddled co-op corporations with high underlying mortgages by overstating the value of the apartments to lenders. (Unlike a residential mortgage, which runs for 15 or 30 years, an underlying mortgage on a co-op is usually due in five or 10 years and generally has to be refinanced.)
 Then the sponsor -- who often used the unsold shares as collateral to borrow more money to convert another building into co-ops -- would be unable to sell any more than 25 to 70 percent of the shares. Then, the sponsor would default on its maintenance payments on the unsold units. This led to the co-op corporation defaulting on its payments on the underlying mortgage.
 Defaulting on underlying mortgage payments then made it all but impossible for any shareholder to sell an apartment because lenders were extremely reluctant to refinance an underlying mortgage or provide financing for a share loan to prospective buyers. The specter of foreclosure and a subsequent loss of equity scared away potential all-cash buyers, too.
 The problem was exacerbated by a long recession (unemployment rose to 10 percent in the city), demographic changes (the end of the wave of affluent, real-estate-obsessed Baby Boomers moving to the city) and a sharp drop in the value of much residential property in many parts of the city (as much as 30 percent in some neighborhoods and for some types of apartments, like studios) between 1988 and 1993, though prices appear to have firmed in the past year).
 "The problems exist either because no one wants to buy apartments, and there are many sponsor-owned unsold apartments, or it is because the mortgage is too high because of greedy sponsors," Mr. Saft said.
 Many of the problems, he added, involved conversions that occured between 1985 and 1989, in buildings in poor physical shape and housing families with moderate incomes.
 Many of the lerger defaults also occurred in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx. "Developers saw that people were making a tremendous amount of money doing conversions in Manhattan, but they couldn't afford to convert in Manhattan," said Edward T. Braverman, a Manhattan lawyer specializing in co-op law. "So, they went to Brooklyn and Queens and bought properties at inflated prices."
 During the early 90's, many co-ops have reached work-out agreements that reduced their debt. For example, the mortgage on the four five-story former tenement buildings at 328-334 West 17th Street in the Chelsea section of Manhattan was recently restructured by the Cheshire Group, a private real estate investment company in Manhattan, which bought the loan at a discount.
 "I was approached by the co-op, and it was a 100 percent amicable deal," said Susan Hewitt, the group's president.
 The co-op's problems began in 1990 when shareholders discovered that they were in default on a three-year-old $ 1.4 million underlying mortgage, and the sponsor, who still owned 75 percent of the shares, was nowhere to be found.
 Making matters more complicated, the bank, Central Federal Savings Bank, which had started a foreclosure proceeding on the co-op, went under. So the Resolution Trust Corporation, a Federal entity created to sell off assets and collect loans of failed savings institutions took over the loan and placed the co-op in receivership.
 "The building has been in the twilight zone," Ms. Hewitt said.
 Then, last fall, Ms. Hewitt's group bought the mortgage from the R.T.C. for $ 300,000 and agreed to pay about $ 500,000 in back taxes. She also wrote down the mortgage the shareholders owed to $ 750,000 over 5 years at 9 percent annual interest. The interest will provide the a small profit for the investors.
 They will realize more profit in an arrangement whereby the shareholders will divide the proceeds of the sale of unsold shares. This will also help bridge the gap between the original $ 1.4 million loan and the new $ 750,000 loan. The sale of unsold shares may never be enough to erase the $ 650,000 gap. An attempt must be made to make up the difference, however, or the co-op could be held liable for taxes on a forgiven debt.
 There are 64 apartments in the co-op, but only 32 are rent-regulated; 16 of the others are shareholder-owned; 5 are vacant and 11 are occupied at market rents.
 "One of the things that made the building appealing was that 50 percent of its apartments were owner-occupied or market-rentals," Ms. Hewitt said.
 That percentage means that it is likely that the building will eventually become 50 percent owner-occupied, as rent-regulated tenants have less incentive to buy their units or leave. (Co-op apartments in buildings with less than 50 percent of the units owned by occupants are extremely difficult to sell because lenders are reluctant to make share loans, the co-op equivalent of a mortgage on an individual apartment, on them.)
 Some co-ops have had more trouble arranging workouts. The 305-unit Cruger-Holland co-ops in the Pelham section of the Bronx, for example, are on the verge of completing a complex agreement that will help it out of bankruptcy.
 "We are lucky that we got a deal to begin with," said Mary White, an assistant operations manager for Paine Webber in Manhattan and president of the Cruger-Holland Association.
 The buildings were converted from rental units in 1989 and 1990. The sponsor, who held 80 percent of the shares in the co-op, literally abandoned the project, however, in 1991; the R.T.C. eventually became the owner of the shares. Meanwhile, the bank that issued a $ 9.5 million underlying mortgage on the building sold the loan to a private investor, Pelham Realty Associates, in March 1993, at a discount; it will not divulge how much.
 Just before Pelham Realty Associates was to foreclose on the co-op, though, the co-op filed for bankruptcy protection. An arrangement worked out this month with the investors requires the co-op to pay a $ 9 million mortgage at 7 percent annual interest over 5 years and continue paying the loan at 7 to 9 percent for another five years. The original loan was at 9.5 percent and 10.5 percent.
 The investors also retain control of the board for eight years and will provide financing for new apartment buyers. Prospective buyers can get financing elsewhere, but it is doubtful that lenders would be willing, at least in the beginning, because of the high percentage of unsold shares.
 "We went through a living nightmare, practically running the building ourselves, hiring contractors, dealing with shareholders and tenants, financial reports, everything," Ms. White said. "Nobody would buy into a bankrupt building."
 "We are hoping that Pelham Realty Associates will start selling apartments again, and we will become a normal co-op again."
 The situation could be worse. At the 227-unit Lincoln Spencer co-op, at Broadway and 69th Street, the shareholders and the lender are at loggerheads over a $ 9 million underlying mortgage that started in 1987. Simply put, the shareholders' maintenance payments do not cover the mortgage, taxes, operating expenses and repairs, even after the co-op raised the maintenance several times. Mr. Marcus's maintenance increased by about 23 percent, to $ 613 from about $ 500.
 "Raising it any more would have made apartments unsalable and bankrupted individual shareholders," Mr. Marcus said.
 So, with the loan due in 1997 and the prospects for refinancing looking dim, the co-op contacted the lender, the Dime Savings Bank, and sought a loan reduction, asserting that the building's value had dropped to $ 5 million.
 Thus far, though, the two parties have not been able to reach an agreement. The bank filed for foreclosure last year after the co-op fell behind in its underlying mortgage payments. A receiver was appointed earlier this month.
"We're not saying we won't pay," Mr. Marcus said. "We are saying, 'Let's find a way to make us whole.'"
 Such brinkmanship is common in workout negotiations, which can last years even after a foreclosure is filed. Oftentimes, a co-op also files for bankruptcy to buy time during the foreclosure or in an effort to get a lender to accept a reorganization in which they will receive less than they are owed.
 Mr. Saft of the Council of New York Cooperatives, however, cautioned that lenders often become very adversarial when a co-op files for bankruptcy. "We don't think it is the right strategic move," he said. "We would rather fight in the foreclosure arena. In the bankruptcy arena, you can quickly lose control of the process."
 Co-ops, generally, have an unusual amount of leverage, though, largely because of the state's rent-regulation laws, a system that consists of both rent-control and rent-stabilization. (Rent-controlled apartments are those built before 1947 that have been continuously occupied by a tenant, or a legal successor, since 1971. When rent-controlled apartments are vacated their rents rise to market level and they become rent stabilized. Apartments built between 1947 and 1974 are also rent-stabilized. Last year, the state also deregulated apartments occupied by households earning $ 250,000 or more for two consecutive years in units with an authorized rent of at least $ 2,000 a month as of Oct. 1, 1993.)
 Widespread co-op conversions started in the early 1980's because landlords, who were financially constrained by rent-regulation, found that they could realize a larger return on their property by selling their buildings to their tenants.
 "You can blame the whole co-op phenomenon on rent-stabilization," said Doug Heller, a real estate lawyer, who represents Lincoln Spencer co-op.
 Another effect of the rent-regulation system is to make lenders reluctant to take back a co-op building in a foreclosure because apartment owners caught in a deconversion often become rent-regulated tenants. And their rents, generally, would not be high enough to offset the building's expenses.
 "Only in New York does a foreclosure reduce the value of real estate," Mr. Saft wrote in an article published in the quarterly Real Estate Finance Journal this winter.
 Of course, deconversion from a co-op to a rental building also results in shareholders losing their equity. Such scenarios, however, have been rare.
 "We have only seen three foreclosures on an underlying mortgage in New York that went all the way, and the buildings deconverted," Mr. Connor said.
 Regardless, the threat of staying in the building as tenants paying below-market rents after a deconversion gives shareholders an unusual amount of clout. Imagine, for example, the owner of a typical single-family house in the suburbs losing the home in a foreclosure but being allowed to remain in the home indefinitely at a substantially reduced rent.
 "The bank may think that we are frightened, but we have a lot of tough people here," said Mr. Marcus, who could become a rental tenant paying a mere $ 200 a month to keep his Lincoln Spencer studio.
 "No one wants the building to go bankrupt, but ..."

CORRECTION-DATE: February, 19, 1995, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 22 about financiallytroubled co-op buildings in New York mis stated the level of rents imposed when a property reverts to rental status as a result of a foreclosure action. Detailed guidelines for such cases, which are rare, have not yet been set by the courts or the state agencies involved. The rents paid by the former co-op owners who become tenants are not, as the article stated, generally rolled back to pre conversion levels.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Susan Hewitt in front of 328-334 West 17th Street co-op. Her Cheshire Group bought its mortgage at a discount and restructured the debt. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times)(pg. 8); Eric Marcus (above), a shareholder, in front of the Lincoln Spencer co-op on West 69th Street, which is in foreclosure. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); He may lose his $ 25,000 equity. Below, Mary White, president of the Cruger-Holland co-op in the Pelham section of the Bronx, which is completing a complex agreement that will help it out of bankruptcy. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DEFAULTING; MORTGAGES; COOPERATIVES RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CITIES (69%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); 

PERSON: RAVO, NICK; SAFT, STUART M ERIC MARCUS (67%); GARY R CONNOR (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1995



578 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 19; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
At Age 80, the Shubert Reassesses Its Role

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
Mama, it is a play that tells the truth about people, Negroes and life and I think it will help a lot of people to understand how we are just as complicated as they are -- and just as mixed up -- but above all, that we have among our miserable and downtrodden ranks people who are the very essence of human dignity. That is what, after all the laughter and tears, the play is supposed to say. I hope it will make you very proud. See you soon. Love to all,
Lorraine 
 LORRAINE HANSBERRY wrote those words to her mother on Jan. 19, 1959. "I am sitting in a nice hotel room in New Haven, Conn." is how the letter began. Downstairs, next door in the Shubert Theater, she went on, finishing touches were being put on the set for that week's opening of "A Raisin in the Sun."
Such are the memorabilia that haunt memory, the golden past that permeates the walls of the Shubert, where a wall of fame in the inner lobby lists the world premieres and the pre-Broadway tryouts of landmark losers and legendary hits, from "Flahooley" to "My Fair Lady."
Those were the glory years when New Haven defined "out of town" and the Shubert, which opened its doors in 1914, was the big-time tryout stop just before Broadway. Then came the dark times, marked by a seven-year closing from 1976 through 1983.
The Shubert's 80th birthday last month gave cause for reflection and, yet again, redefinition. For the theater, which now runs as a performing arts center for 130 performances a year, many of them two-week engagements of post-Broadway national tours of the pre-Broadway tryouts of old, and subsists as a rental for community events the rest of the time, can no longer be the last fixing place for the Broadway-bound.
By the prevailing law of economic fatalism and stunning illogic, all the world is a tryout stage for Broadway but Broadway is in retreat from the world. The obstacles of outrageous finance, from production costs to ticket prices, have put Broadway, with its ever-decreasing product, into the realm of myth, as opposed to Mecca, for aspiring shows.
Apart from the obvious supposition that more plays and musicals would be realistically Broadway-bound if Broadway let them in, the days of the out-of-town tryout are, practically speaking, over. The number of new Broadway shows available for touring are negligible and the size of those shows cannot be accommodated by theaters built for actors and singers making human sounds, in contrast to soaring helicopters and crashing chandeliers.
To Caroline Werth, who began her fourth year as the Shubert Performing Arts Center's president on Jan. 4, a "two-pronged problem" faces the theater as the millennium approaches. "The shows we're looking at for next season will be costing an average of $50,000 a week more than this season's," Ms. Werth said, "and that translates to a $600,000 problem." In turn, that means a major push for more money because "the amount we're now raising, $500,000 a year, must be more than doubled."
Prong two: The physical limitations of a theater that had no problem with "Will Rogers Follies" but cannot accommodate mega-musicals like "Miss Saigon," "Phantom of the Opera," "Sunset Boulevard" or "Beauty and the Beast."
"Raising ticket prices is not an option we want to contemplate," Ms. Werth said. The top ticket is $50 on weekends, "And we won't cut back on the quality loyal audiences expect. We're selling more tickets than ever. Interesting bind, isn't it?" Miss Werth asked, looking up from the numbers.
"When you see those long lines at the box office -- this season, 'Grease' set a new house record -- and the place is packed, a lot of people are convinced everything is rosy," said Ron Shaw, the president and chief executive of Pilot Pen Corporation of America and the Shubert's new chairman of the board. "But it doesn't mean we're making money." The Shubert has a $500,000 accumulated deficit and an anticipated $100,000 loss this year.
A sellout at the 1,600-seat theater usually means it is filled to 76 percent of capacity, the 400-seat second balcony representing the exile to vertigo-land from which few theatergoers think they'll return. "We have to find a way to build a second theater so we can one again become a tryout house," Mr. Shaw said.
A new theater? Now we're talking another $20 million, maybe $30 million. "And when they tell me the odds are against me and that I'll fail, that's when my adrenalin goes" is Mr. Shaw's response to that. "And we'll keep the Shubert alive as well."
Clearly the problem has more prongs than is worth counting and it isn't only money driven, though Ms. Werth's otherwise "mean and lean" operation, as she calls it, suggests that cost consciousness must be a way of life. Or put another way, "Where does the money come from and how do we find new sources of revenue?" are the questions that don't go away.
Where does popular taste and responsibility come in? One is dealing with the non-esthetic of an audience that wants to see Robert Goulet in an artistically bereft "Camelot" (that cost the Shubert $265,000 a week, not counting $150,000 in operating expenses.) Last season, the show grossed $460,000 a week. That audience preferred the Goulet personal appearance to "Guys and Dolls" in its spiffy new production with no box office names. And survival demands that a theater like the Shubert attend to the business of indulging audiences rather than the process of enlightenment.
That's the contageous mentality that rules Broadway and filters through the touring management organizations. "She Loves Me," as magical a musical as anyone could crave, that had its world premiere at the Shubert in 1963, had a proposed tour of the latest Broadway production dropped. "Carousel," a 1945 musical that was meant for the Shubert (where "Oklahoma!" came to life) is, in its 1994 incarnation, simply too vast to play here, unless the production is drastically down-scaled, which may yet happen.
Can audience tastes be transformed to embrace quality or will theatergoers go on insisting on excess? Can the Shubert be a pre-Broadway house once more?
Ms. Werth is gamely presenting "Angels in America," in March, perhaps the most debated and honored Broadway plan in decades, a real status "hit" that closed in New York with a loss of more than $500,000. Mr. Shaw's company, Pilot, is the production's sponsor. Will Shubert audiences buy it? "I'm not a theater expert," Mr. Shaw said. "I sell pens."
The remaining Shubert Theater series:
Feb. 14 to 26: "Laughter on the 23d Floor" by Neil Simon.
May 2 to May 14 "Jelly's Last Jam" starring Maurice Hines and Savion Glover.
March 17 to 26 "Angels in America" (nine performances of "Millennium Approaches," four of "Perestroika").

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ron Shaw, Shubert chairman and president of Pilot Pen of America.; Caroline Werth, president of the Shubert Performing Arts Center in New Haven.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SHUBERT PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHUBERT PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; SHUBERT THEATER (NEW HAVEN, CONN); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); CALENDARS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN CAROLINE WERTH (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



579 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Profile;
For U.S., He's Behind All the America's Cup Hopes

BYLINE: By GLENN RIFKIN 

DATELINE: BRISTOL, R.I.

 BODY:
ANY way you look at it, Eric Goetz can't lose. There are three syndicates vying for the right to represent the United States in defense of the America's Cup, sailing's most prestigious prize, and Mr. Goetz (pronounced gertz) built the multimillion-dollar boats for all of them.
Mr. Goetz's sweep of boat-building honors for this classy but cutthroat competition is akin to having the same trainer handle three horses in the Kentucky Derby. This is, after all, a sport in which technology has become a critical factor, with each syndicate spending as much as $35 million for a chance to defend the cup. And the three defense syndicates -- the America<3> Foundation, Team Dennis Conner and PACT 95 -- as well as most of the seven international challengers, go to extraordinary lengths to keep the design secrets of these Formula One race cars of the seas under wraps. 
 As important as the crew and organization are, boat speed wins the cup, and competitors spend millions in research to find a design edge. To gain that edge, competitors in past years have resorted to skulduggery. Bill Koch, whose America<3> is the defending champion, spent more than $2 million on "intelligence" during the 1992 campaign. He hired helicopters to fly over competing boats to get photos of masts and keels, and even set up a decoy spy boat.
New rules this year are intended to limit the spying, but the need for both secrecy and edge remains. Not only is security at Eric Goetz Custom Boats tight and the 30 workers not afflicted with loose lips, but Mr. Goetz provides the most technologically advanced boat money can buy. By perfecting the use of composites like carbon fiber in racing yachts -- thereby making them stronger, lighter and much faster -- and in being able to deliver on time and within budget, he has, in fact, cornered the market.
"At this point, there isn't any choice," says Vincent Moeyersoms, general manager and president of the America<3> syndicate. "Any sensible America's Cup syndicate has to go to him. Going to anybody else would be a pretty big risk."
Says John Marshall, president of PACT 95: "It's not a real good statement about the U.S. boat building industry that there's only one builder. The U.S. boat building industry has shrunk and demand has been reduced for top quality product."
MR. GOETZ, 45, has spent 20 years building custom boats for wealthy sailors like Ted Turner and has earned a reputation for being absolutely scrupulous. The boat builder is a trim 5 foot 10 and has a puckish sense of humor. An unassuming, casual man who is serious about his work, he sets the tone for his staff at his boatyard in this historic maritime community on Narragansett Bay.
"He shuts down his whole operation at 5 P.M. on Friday," says Bill Trenkle, vice president of operations for Team Dennis Conner. "He doesn't believe in overtime and he wants his people to spend their weekends with their families."
Mr. Goetz has built championship boats for virtually every major sailing competition in the world, including Mr. Koch's 1992 America's Cup winner. His unflappability is legendary, as is his ability to sublimate his ego, a rare trait among boat builders. He will build to the blueprint specifications of a syndicate's designers and engineers. "Most boat builders want to force their ideas and techniques on the customer," says Mr. Trenkle. "Eric is much more open-minded."
Mr. Goetz's revenues range anywhere from $2.5 million to more than $3.5 million in an America's Cup year. Although a cup racer costs upward of $3 million, he does not take in that amount. In the 15 to 22 weeks it takes to build an America's Cup boat, he constructs the hull and puts together all the other components. Expensive items like masts, winches, electronics, riggings and materials like carbon fiber are all priced separately, however. Mr. Goetz has a computerized inventory system that tracks parts and he will often act as a contractor for a client but all of the costs don't go directly to him. (He declines to say what he charges each client.)
The four or five boats Mr. Goetz builds a year are treated as new family members, and he keeps watch from a distance as they compete in the world's top sailing challenges. If problems arise, he is quick to respond. Two weeks ago in San Diego, the PACT 95 yacht, Young America, was severely damaged by a freak tornado that tore through the syndicate's compound. Straightaway Mr. Goetz and four of his crew flew to California and by the next day repairs began. They worked night and day to refurbish the $2 million boat so that it missed only a day of scheduled competition.
The son of a German father and Japanese mother, Eric Goetz grew up in Port Washington, N.Y. His father, a shipping broker in New York, is an accomplished amateur sailor and woodworker, and Mr. Goetz combined those passions early in his own life. His junior high school yearbook had him saying he wanted to be a naval architect.
Although he majored in anthropology at Brown, he devoted much of his time to sailing. He was captainof the school's sailing team and spent his summers crewing on sailboats for the likes of Thomas Watson Jr., the former I.B.M. chairman and a Brown alumnus. Boat building was, for Mr. Goetz, the natural calling, a way to combine his love of sailing with a stable life in one port. He taught himself to build boats. If he had been born in Germany, he explains, he would have started out as an apprentice, but here he simply learned by doing.
"I have a sailing background from childhood," he says, "and I was always fiddling with my hands, making something out of wood or tinkering with lawn mower engines. Like everyone else, I learned to build boats by doing it." He got his first break from Art Paine, who commissioned him to build one of his boat designs. "The hardest thing is selling that first boat," Mr. Goetz says.
When he is asked why he chose such a remote location for his boatyard, Mr. Goetz responds: "Bristol has built more defenders for the America's Cup than any town on earth." He points out that boat building for the event began here in 1870. "We have a wonderful nurturing environment here to build boats," he continues, pointing to a custom-mast shop across the street and a custom boatyard next door.
BEFORE 1992, racing yachts were constructed of aluminum. But that year a new class of boats was introduced that used preimpregnated carbon fiber, an extremely strong and rigid material that is a component of the Stealth bomber. This material reduced hull weight by 50 percent. There were other changes. The older boats, which were 64 feet long and 12 feet wide, were replaced by dynamic new vessels, up to 77 feet long and 18 feet wide, allowing the America's Cup to be sailed in boats that were lighter, stronger and much faster.
Mr. Goetz began using composites in 1976 to reinforce the wooden boats he was building. In 1988, he penned a memo to himself: "If we want to be among the elite, we have to build for the America's Cup." His becoming an expert in composites would pave the way. By the early 1980's, he recalls, "We couldn't sell wooden boats. In 1983, we put a beautiful wooden boat on the water and nobody wanted to talk to us about anything but composites."
As is his custom, he became an expert in composites by using them. During the 1992 America's Cup, while building the racers for Mr. Koch, Mr. Goetz worked closely with two professors from the aeronautics and astrophysics department at Stanford University who were experts in composites.
Expertise in composites isn't enough, he says. It is one thing to be innovative and another to deliver on time. "We have a reputation for delivering boats when we say at the price we say." With sponsors like Chevrolet, Ocean Spray, Hewlett-Packard and Citizen pouring millions into the syndicates, he adds, "you can't tell the sponsors the boat is late. When the media event is supposed to happen, it better happen."
Despite occasional lean years like 1993 -- an "onerous luxury tax," says Mr. Goetz, on top of a recession -- his boatyard has thrived. He has built more than 70 custom boats, including yachts, cruising boats, powerboats and ocean-racing maxi-boats. Sailors from Spain, France and Japan come to his boatyard, which doesn't even bear a sign for the company. "People know how to find Eric," says Mr. Trenkle.
Mr. Koch, whose syndicate poured $63 million into winning the 1992 America's Cup, used Mr. Goetz for that competition after having commissioned other boats from him. And Mr. Koch, as did Mr. Conner, tried to persuade Mr. Goetz not to build a boat for his competitor, but to no avail.
"In 1992, we had come into the America's Cup late and Dennis had already booked a slot with Eric," recalls Mr. Koch. "We agonized over whether to let him do it. We concluded he was the best boat builder in the United States."
Mr. Goetz set up separate operations, a half-mile apart. Nonetheless, the super-cautious Mr. Koch hired his own security people and had his own construction manager and crew on site at all times. "We did checks," he says. "My guys would have beers with his workers and see if they could persuade them to talk about Dennis's boat or our boat. They passed with flying colors."
For the 1992 competition, Mr. Goetz built three boats for Mr. Koch (for $5 million each, according to Mr. Koch). He is currently finishing this year's America<3> yacht, to be sailed by the first all-female crew in the 144 years of competitions. This crew has thus far been sailing in the 1992 Cup winner. In all, Mr. Goetz has built 10 multimillion-dollar boats for Mr. Koch.
Reaching the pinnacle of his profession hasn't changed Mr. Goetz's outlook. "We run a fun shop," he says. "Everyone has a key and on any given night, guys are working on their own boats or cars till all hours. That's the greatest security you could have."
 
Eric Goetz
 
 Born: June 30, 1949; New York City.
 
 Education: B.A., anthropology, Brown University.
 
 Car: 1995 Saab 9000.
 
 Family: He and his wife, Marcia, president of an import company in Bristol, R.I., have a 9-year-old daughter, Katie.
 
 Favorite activities: Skiing in Davos, Switzerland, and sailing on the Narragansett Bay.
 
 Last book read: "Sheba" by Jack Higgins.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Goetz's mastery of space-age building materials has kept his Narragansett Bay boatyard busy. (Jim Rogash for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOETZ, ERIC, CUSTOM BOATS

ORGANIZATION: GOETZ, ERIC, CUSTOM BOATS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOATS AND BOATING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AMERICA'S CUP SAILING (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); BOAT BUILDING (89%); ESPIONAGE (88%); BOATING & RAFTING (77%); HORSE RACING (75%); FORMULA ONE RACING (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%); HELICOPTERS (50%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN; GOETZ, ERIC DENNIS CONNER (56%); WILLIAM I 'BILL' KOCH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



580 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 1995

SECTION: Section 9; Page 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
New London Building on Its Maritime Reputation

BYLINE: By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

DATELINE: NEW LONDON

 BODY:
ALMOST $150 million worth of construction is planned in southern New London County in an effort that those involved say could establish the region as the national center for marine science and maritime history.
A cornerstone will be the $18.5 million OceanQuest science center on a 24-acre waterfront parcel in New London. Students at the center, which will be modeled after Space Camp in Huntsville, Ala., will enroll in week-long courses that will include time in submarine simulators and remote-operated submersible vehicles. 
 Also planned are a $45 million renovation and expansion of the Mystic Marinelife Aquarium, $30 million in improvements to nearby Mystic Seaport, the Thames River Maritime Heritage Park in New London and Groton and a proposed $60 million expansion of the marine sciences center at the University of Connecticut's Avery Point campus.
The major component in UConn's request to the Legislature is for a $34 million, 116,000-square-foot Marine Sciences Research and Education Building. All of the projects are at least partially state-funded.
The projects would complement existing attractions such as the Nautilus Submarine Museum in Groton and the Coast Guard Academy and the academy's tall ship Eagle in New London.
"It's going to set us apart as the premier maritime center in the country," said Vivian C. Stanley, executive director of the state-financed Southeastern Connecticut Tourism District. "When you start listing them all, it's absolutely wonderful, what's happening in the region. Now it's going to be a matter of knitting them all together, and going out to sell them."
The region already has the top three tourist attractions in the state -- the aquarium, the seaport, and the Nautilus museum, in that order.
A. Kathryn Shelton, marketing director for the nonprofit, New London-based Corporation for Regional Economic Development, said a 1989 state study had found that tourism contributed $434 million to the New London County economy in 1989, the latest available figures. Tourism is one of the three most promising "clusters" identified in her organization's draft regional economic development plan; the others are manufacturing and biotechnology.
Richard Erickson, executive director of the Southeastern Connecticut Council of Governments, agreed. "What's being proposed is undoubtedly going to make the region more of a destination," he said. "And it's going to give the whole region a maritime identity, not just Mystic."
GROUND has been broken off Shaw Street in New London for the OceanQuest marine science camp, with $2.4 million in state grants and the rest in private financing, said Michael O'Donnell, co-executive director of the project with Philip J. Slack. They were managers at a local defense contractor, Analysis & Technology, before resigning to develop OceanQuest.
"New London has a fantastic waterfront that is completely underutilized," Mr. O'Donnell said. "Hopefully, this will be the start of a revitalization of the whole area."
The first phase of the development will be a 150-room hotel, and an 85,000-square-foot learning center, including a 300-seat conference room and 200-seat theater. Phase two will consist of a 360-degree movie theater of about 16,000 square feet, an estimated 54,000-square-foot expansion of the learning center.
Mr. O'Donnell expects 20,000 students a year, aged 12 to 18, to enroll in the week-long programs at OceanQuest. The cost will be $600 to $1,000, depending on the course track.
Project consultants include Jean Michael Cousteau, son of the famed marine scientist Jacques Cousteau, and Edward Buckbee, the retired developer of Space Camp. "They're giving us international exposure, right from the start," Mr. O'Donnell said.
OceanQuest has agreements with the Naval Undersea Warfare Center in New London, Project Oceanology in Groton and other local centers of marine science to cooperate on educational programs.
The Thames River Maritime Heritage Park, a state-financed development, will be modeled after Freedom Trail in Boston. Its 15,000-square-foot visitors' center (including a small museum) off State Street, on which construction will start this summer, will provide directions to historic sites such as the Custom House and Coast Guard Academy here, the Ledge Lighthouse in the Thames River and Fort Griswold in neighboring Groton.
Bruce G. Hyde, the New London City Planner, who is a a member of the park advisory council, said tourists could visit several of the sites in a walking tour, then catch a boat from downtown New London that would take them across the river to the Groton sites.
"With the exception of Ocean Beach Park, New London really hasn't had an anchor attraction like the aquarium or the seaport," Mr. Hyde said. "OceanQuest and the Heritage Park will give us that. And having both of them in New London will make the impact even greater."
Hugh P. Connell, president of the Mystic Marinelife Aquarium, said the expansion and renovation project is designed to make the 21-year-old aquarium look as modern as newer operations in Baltimore, New Orleans and Monterey, Calif.
"We realized if we didn't start updating now, by the turn of the century our aquarium would be a quaint, old-fashioned institution," Mr. Connell said.
The project, expected to raise attendance from 750,000 to 1.1 million people a year, will include a new lobby and entrance area, breeding pools, an area for treating stranded marine mammals, a new auditorium, and a new wing for research and exhibits.
Robert Ballard, the undersea explorer who discovered the Titanic and other famous shipwrecks, has announced a plan to move his Institute for Undersea Exploration to the aquarium from Woods Hole, Mass. His new institute will feature a ride that will simulate a trip to the ocean floor in a research submarine, and exhibits on some of his discoveries.
THE aquarium expansion got a boost last year when the state announced it would underwrite two-thirds of the cost. "If you've got the first $30 million locked up, it's a lot easier to raise the last $15 million," Mr. Connell said. "It's not going to be easy, but that state grant makes it possible."
At Mystic Seaport, there are three projects under way, including a $20 million, 150,000-square-foot Maritime Research Center that will include 60,000 square feet of exhibit space.
"This will make our broad-based collections accessible not only to visitors but to students and scholars," said J. Revell Carr, the Seaport's president and chief executive.
Mr. Carr said that in addition to more than a million historic photographs, 100,000 ship blueprints, and innumerable examples of figureheads, scrimshaw, paintings and prints, Mystic Seaport had 480 old boats.
"There's no museum in the world that has a collection of watercraft of that magnitude," Mr. Carr said. "It's an enormous resource, and one that has been largely inaccessible until now."
The Seaport is also undertaking a $10 million expansion and renovation of its 19th-century whaling village.
Mystic Seaport offers its own educational programs, including one in which students spend a week living as people did aboard 19th-century whaling boats.
Mr. Carr said since all the maritime projects would be drawing people with similar interests, he foresaw the opportunity to forge strong relationships among them.
"It would seem logical that someone traveling a great distance to take a course at OceanQuest might stay over another week for a course here," Mr. Carr said. "I can see the basis for strong cooperation among all the programs."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Charles W. Morgan whaling ship, above, at Mystic Seaport; Hugh P. Connell, right, the president of the Mystic Marinelife Aquarium. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (50%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (98%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT ANALYSIS & TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL CORP (50%); ANALYSIS & TECHNOLOGY INC (50%); ANALYSIS & TECHNOLOGY AUSTRALIA PTY LTD (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON (CONN); UNITED STATES (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (98%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; OCEANS; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; HISTORY OCEANOGRAPHY (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); BIOLOGY (90%); MARINE BIOLOGY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HISTORY (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); EXECUTIVES (86%); COUNTIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (75%); ARMED FORCES (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); TOURISM (71%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL O'DONNELL (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1995



581 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 Unknown intruders have developed a new way to break into computer systems. For computer users, the problem is akin to homeowners' learning that burglars have master keys to all the front doors in the neighborhood. The new form of attack leaves many of the 20 million government, business, university and home computers on the global Internet vulnerable to eavesdropping and theft. A Federal computer-security agency plans to advise users today on a complicated set of measures to prevent it. [Page A1.] 
 Prices for new cars and trucks have risen faster than most Americans' income in the last 20 years, and the auto companies are embroiled in a debate over whether they are leaving too many customers behind. In recent months, the average spending on a new car surpassed $20,000. [D1.]
 The problems in balancing New York City's budget have made investors nervous enough that they are expected to exact slightly higher interest rates this week, when the city sells $645 million of new bonds. [D1.]
 As much as $85 million in interest due to participants in the Orange County investment pool was placed in mystery accounts maintained by the county treasurer's office, the new chairman of the county's Board of Supervisors said during the weekend. [D5.]
 
The Media Business
 Twenty-five years after its founding, Essence magazine is the pre-eminent voice for black women. Its circulation passed the one million mark last year. And, after years of wooing luxury markets, the magazine now includes among its advertisers Chanel, Giorgio, Cadillac and Estee Lauder. [D1.]
 The curse of television success: a spot cradled between two hit shows has long been the most desirable place to be on a network schedule. And yet try convincing the current resident of NBC's 9:30 Thursday time period, "Madman of the People," that the slot has been an invitation to long life and hefty profit. [D8.]
 In his first weeks as House Speaker, Newt Gingrich has made a point of his disdain for what he calls "the liberal media elite." Yet he may be helped more than hurt by his dealings with reporters. William Glaberson: Press. [D8.]
 While consumer-products companies cut other parts of promotional budgets, sampling programs abound. For the last three years, a trade group says, sampling has grown by 15 percent to 20 percent a year. [D8.]
 Money magazine's new print campaign strikes a pose as an investment adviser, emphasizing long-term success over short-term results. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D9.]
 
Companies
 A top executive in Prudential Securities' retail sales department has been informed that lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission plan to recommend civil charges against him, people with knowledge of the investigation said. [D1.]
 Sony and Microsoft will work together to develop systems for "video on demand" and other applications of high-capacity communications networks, a Microsoft spokeswoman said. [D3.]
 
International
 Failure by Congress to approve the $40 billion rescue package for Mexico would have far-reaching effects, economists and political analysts said, that would go far beyond the United States' relationship with its third-largest trading partner. [D1.]
 
Today's Columns
 A biotechnology company uses bacteria to make crops unappetizing to certain insects. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
 Recent mild weather has forced some changes in the predictions of higher natural-gas prices. Yet, some are betting on gas stocks over a longer term. Market Place. [D6.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (54%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COUNTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BURGLARY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (75%); BONDS (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); LIBERAL MEDIA (65%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (63%); RETAIL SALES (50%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



582 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: New York Bonds Face Rate Rise

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
The bond market is hardly spooked, but the problems in balancing New York City's $31.8 billion budget have made investors nervous enough that they are likely to exact slightly higher interest rates this week, when the city sells $645 million of new bonds.
That will eventually translate into millions of dollars more that the city must pay at regular intervals to service its debts. New York is the most active issuer of bonds in the country, after the Treasury, and every hundredth of a percentage point -- or basis point -- in interest is significant. 
 For $110 million of 30-year bonds, such as the city plans to offer this week, each basis point is equal to $11,000 of interest a year. So, a change of 45 basis points -- the increase now being anticipated, compared with a similar issue in November -- would amount to $495,000 a year for as long as the 30-year bonds are outstanding.
The city will benefit somewhat from a general decline in long-term bond yields over the last couple of months, and its interest rate for the new bonds is expected to be lower than that in its previous sale in November.
But interest rate levels discussed among investors and securities dealers late last week suggested that the decline in yields for long-term city bonds would not be as great as for other borrowers in the municipal bond market. That means that New York is likely to pay a higher interest rate, relative to other borrowers, than a few months ago.
Officials from the city government and Prudential Securities, which is handling the sale, declined to comment on interest rates for the bonds, but said the sale would be "successful."
Arthur Spector, manager of the public finance department at Prudential, said, "Investors and Wall Street recognize that as the Mayor and the city move inexorably toward structural balance in the budget, it is good for the city."
But until the city makes changes in its outlays and revenue so that future budgets are balanced more easily, investors are buying on faith that the budget will somehow be balanced and that investors will be paid the money they are owed -- a reality of New York municipal finance for many years.
The challenges to that faith are numerous right now, as the city faces a weak local economy with lower tax revenue than expected, heated political battles about midyear spending cuts and uncertainty about the ways the state, which faces its own multibillion-dollar budget gap, can ease the city's problems.
John B. Pinkham, manager of the $4.5 billion Franklin New York Fund, said that since late last year, the yields on city bonds had increased about 15 to 20 basis points, relative to the yields on the bonds of state authorities with comparable ratings.
Mr. Pinkham attributed the deterioration of the bonds to the city's long-term budget problems, not to the warning issued last week by the Standard & Poor's Corporation, the credit-rating agency, that it might lower its A- rating if the city did not continue to cut spending. "City bonds never traded as if they were A-, anyway," he said.
Mr. Pinkham, whose fund sells largely to individuals and is the biggest in the country specializing in New York bonds, said the city still had the support of individual investors attracted by the bonds' exemption from Federal, state and city income tax. The current problems are not as severe as those before the 1975 default on city notes, he said, "and there is a fairly blase attitude among many individuals."
In weighing the risks against the interest rates that the city is expected to pay, Mr. Pinkham said the city's long-term bonds were "relatively attractive," and he was likely to be a buyer.
Duncan Smith, head trader at Lebenthal & Company, a New York firm specializing in municipal bonds, said the city's bonds did not participate fully in the rally of the last few weeks that raised prices and reduced yields on many other municipal issues.
"Sure, the market sees the budget turmoil and bad headlines, and it has some effect," Mr. Smith said. "But there has been a lot of that the past five years, and I see this sale as a good buying opportunity."
He said the tax-exempt status of the bonds meant that a yield of 7.25 percent was the equivalent for most individual investors of 12 percent on bonds with taxable interest.
The interest rates on the bonds will be set this week through negotiations between the city and securities dealers. But last week, securities dealers began circulating in their own ranks and among large customers the suggested interest rates, which could be adjusted up or down as needed.
For the bonds of the shortest maturity, due on Aug. 15, 1996, the interest rate could be as low as 5.20 percent, rising to 6.10 percent for those due in about five years and 7.05 percent for bonds due in 15 years. For the longest-term bonds, due in 2024, the suggested yield was 7.20 percent or 7.25 percent.
For the shortest maturities those due in five years or less, the proposed yields are only slightly higher than those in November, as securities dealers try to persuade investors to accept smaller increases than have occurred in other kinds of bonds. But for the longest-term bonds, the yield is up substantially, compared with those of other issues.
The suggested yield of 7.25 percent on 30-year New York bonds would be 35 basis points more than the Jan. 19 index of like-rated 30-year bonds of other municipalities, as compiled by the Delphis Hanover Corporation, a bond research company in Southbury, Conn. In November, the city was able to sell bonds due in 2020 with a yield of 7.55 percent, 10 basis points lower than the Delphis Hanover index.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (53%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (93%); INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MAYORS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL ARLEN SPECTER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



583 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
An Enduring Voice for Black Women

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE CARMODY 

 BODY:
In 1970 four black men with no magazine experience published 50,000 copies of the first general magazine aimed at African-American women. They hoped it would provide some jobs, make some money and help bring self-esteem to women who had been virtually ignored by mainstream publishers.
Twenty-five years later, Essence magazine has become the pre-eminent voice for black women. Its circulation passed one million last year. And, after years of wooing luxury markets, the magazine now includes among its advertisers Chanel, Giorgio, Cadillac and Estee Lauder. 
 In 1992, Essence Communications, the magazine's parent, acquired Income Opportunities, a magazine with a circulation of 400,000 aimed at people who have been let go from their jobs and want to start their own businesses. The acquisition was a rare example of a minority company buying a white-owned business.
As part of the acquisition, Essence relocated the mostly white staff of Income Opportunities to the Essence offices at 44th Street and Broadway in Manhattan.
Although magazines are its core business, Essence Communications, which had revenue of $77 million last year, also licenses eyeglasses, hosiery and fabric patterns under the Essence name. It publishes a mail-order catalogue aimed at black consumers and is considering starting other publications, including a magazine for Hispanic women.
Essence has built a kind of cult following, not only among blacks but among people who deal with the extraordinary problems faced by many black women.
Sarah Buel is a white assistant district attorney in Norfolk County, Mass., and an adjunct professor at Boston College Law School, where she teaches a course titled "Domestic Violence and the Law." Though she says she has no connection to Essence and knows no one there, she tells lecture audiences around the country, black or white, what she tells her students -- that they should subscribe to Essence.
"I find whites are very hungry for information about what is really going on in communities of color," said Ms. Buel, who lectured in 46 states last year. "There are tremendous stereotypes that even my colleagues make about African-American women. Essense talks about issues in a way that would help white judges, police officers and prosecutors."
The magazine's articles have included "Facing AIDS," a first-person account of living with AIDS; "Love With a White Woman," about interracial marriage; "Sickle-Cell and Your Child," about the inherited blood disorder that primarily affects blacks, and a column on the subject of blacks and I.Q. tests.
There are also regular features on health, beauty, fashion, culture and contemporary living. The November issue is always devoted to black men, who make up 28 percent of the readers. Non-blacks constitute 8 percent.
A large part of the success can be attributed to Susan L. Taylor, editor in chief since 1981, who has infused the magazine with an inspirational tone. Ms. Taylor writes a monthly column, "In the Spirit," urging black women to celebrate their accomplishments and never to lose heart. A collection of her essays under the same title has been published in hard cover by Amistad Press and in paperback by Harper Perennial.
"The mission of Essence," she said, "is to inspire, inform and uplift black women, to help our sisters move their lives forward so that they can carry the word and thereby hopefully uplift our race."
Essence readers have a median household income of $28,000 and a median age of 35. But Ms. Taylor said she did not edit the magazine with its demographics in mind.
"No matter what social, economic or political differences we might have, all black women are cut from the same cultural cloth," she declared. "Whether we learn it in the church or the mosque or in our mother's kitchen, we are reared to believe that we should take responsibility for our lives. You will be hard pressed to find any black woman who was not raised to believe in herself and to believe in God."
Two of the founders still help run the magazine: Edward Lewis, the publisher and chief executive, and Clarence O. Smith, its president. They express pride that their magazine is still really the only general magazine for black women, though others, like Heart and Soul, a guide to healthy living published by Rodale Press, feature some of the life-style issues found in Essence.
"It is very important that Essence is a voice for African-American women because we know that they are going to read a Vogue, a Vanity Fair, but they are not going to see themselves month in, month out as a black woman," Mr. Lewis said. Black women, he said, do not often see their concerns directly addressed in the mainstream press.
Yet, mainstream magazines have increasingly been running ads aimed at black women. But Mr. Lewis and Mr. Smith said Essence was holding its own. Ad pages in 1994 were virtually even with those in 1993.
Muriel Gonzalez, senior vice president for marketing at Estee Lauder U.S.A., which began advertising in Essence in 1993, said that when one of her company's products is advertised in the magazine, "we can really see the results because we see consumers with a page of the magazine coming in to ask for it." Some Estee Lauder ads, like ones for Fruition, a facial-treatment product, were "tailored for the magazine and cite the benefits of the product for women of color," she noted.
Essence has been profitable since its sixth year, Mr. Lewis said. The parent company, which is run by an eight-person board, is privately held and has been profitable for 15 of its 25 years.
Mr. Smith said he and Mr. Lewis wanted to position Essence Communications as a broad communications company, rather than one that publishes only for the African-American market. He said the company would bid in the Federal auction of airwaves for wireless phone services. Licenses for these personal-communications services will allow companies to offer voice, video and data communications through hand-held devices.
The auction for the part of the airwaves for which Essence would be eligible will take place in mid-April, at the earliest. "It will change the way people communicate," Mr. Smith said. "Essence will be trying to win some of that spectrum so that it can enlarge its services as an information provider."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two of Essence's founders, Clarence O. Smith, left, its president, and Edward Lewis, the publisher and chief executive. They express pride in serving the wide reading interests of black women over a 25-year period. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: EL (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ESSENCE MAGAZINE ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: ESSENCE MAGAZINE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS (IN US); WOMEN; ADVERTISING; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); WOMEN (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); LUXURY GOODS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); SICKLE CELL DISEASE (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); AIDS & HIV (63%); BLOOD DISORDERS (60%); MARRIAGE (50%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (50%); 

PERSON: CARMODY, DEIRDRE; SMITH, CLARENCE; LEWIS, EDWARD; TAYLOR, SUSAN L ESTEE LAUDER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



584 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: Far-Reaching Effects Seen If Mexico Rescue Is Halted

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
A failure by Congress to approve the $40 billion rescue package for Mexico would have far-reaching effects that would go far beyond America's relationship with its third-largest trading partner, economists and political analysts say.
The vote may take place as early as this week. Should the measure fail, reaction in financial markets both here and abroad will almost certainly be negative. Equally profound, analysts say, would be the signal sent to the rest of the world about the manner in which the United States intends to conduct international economic policy. 
 "The effect would be staggering," said C. Fred Bergsten, director of the Institute for International Economics, a Washington research organization. "To have the first action by the new United States Congress be to turn this down would be read not only in Buenos Aires and Mexico City but in Bonn, Tokyo and Paris that the United States has turned away from the world."
The package, advanced by President Clinton, has also been endorsed by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board.
Yet the package has met opposition in both houses of Congress, primarily from those members who had fought the North American Free Trade Agreement that helped to accelerate business ties between the United States and Mexico. Many fear the package is rescuing an economy from the ineptitude of its own leaders, and some see it as a chance to win concessions on the pact that could not be won initially.
On Thursday, Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the House, said he was finding more opposition to the package among Democrats than Republicans.
Analysts said that aside from doing psychological damage, defeat of the package would have several financial effects.
For one, the dollar, often seen as a safe-haven in times of crisis, would probably come under attack. It began falling last week against the German mark when the rescue package first got into trouble. By Friday, the dollar was down 1.4 percent against the mark for the week.
"The impact on the dollar against the Japanese yen and European currencies will be very sharp," said Robert D. Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.
"The feeling will be that Mexico will be less and less able to buy American goods," he said, meaning that the United States trade deficit could widen.
David Hale, chief economist at Kemper Securities in Chicago, estimated that failure to pass the legislation would increase the trade deficit by "at least" $10 billion to $15 billion. For 1994, the trade deficit is expected to hit $152.5 billion, its highest in seven years.
In addition, a wide-ranging economic and political crisis would be precipitated in Mexico, with attendant costs to the United States. The Mexican stock market dropped nearly 8 percent last week and the peso began to slide against the dollar again, falling 6 percent.
"If it doesn't go through, the Mexican banking system, already very weak, will probably collapse completely," Mr. Hale said. "Domestic demand in Mexico will fall by 5 percent to 10 percent. Illegal immigration will rise. For the United States, this is a multidimensional crisis."
There could also be a further meltdown in other emerging markets in Latin America, markets that were unnecessarily weakened by the onset of the peso crisis in December. In turn, that would probably have an adverse impact on the region's economic prospects.
"The prospects for exports to emerging markets generally could be dampened," said John Lipsky, chief economist at Salomon Brothers.
Financial markets have been nervously watching the debate in Washington for days, operating under the assumption that the package would be approved.
At the end of last week, though, Wall Street began to reconsider that thesis, as bickering in Congress escalated over the the package and its importance relative to advancing the Republican Party's domestic agenda. The longer the political in-fighting between House and Senate Democrats and Republicans continues, the dimmer the prospects for approval become, the analysts said.
It is a view that is shared by at least some Congressional leaders pushing for the bill's passage.
"It is my strong view that the risks of defeat go up in direct relation to the delay in consideration of the measure," Representative James A. Leach, the Iowa Republican who has led negotiations on the package for his party, said in a letter last Friday to Representative Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat.
Despite the wrangling, observers have hopes that a deal will ultimately be forged. That view was echoed by Mr. Leach and Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who has been negotiating for the minority.
"It is important to do this as quickly as possible, because the markets interpret delays in a negative way," Mr. Frank said in a telephone interview.
In a telephone interview on Friday, Mr. Leach said he hoped the measure could be brought up late this week, after the House considers the balanced-budget amendment to the Constitution.
But the makeup of the new Congress is not inspiring a great deal of confidence about approval.
"I have been fairly confident because the Congress fears being accused of triggering a financial crisis," Mr. Bergsten said.
"But with this enormous turnover, two-thirds of the members of the House are in either their first or second term," he said. "They don't realize they could cause what could be like an accidental nuclear war."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); BOLSA (BMV) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); BOLSA MEXICANA DE VALORES SAB DE CV (58%); INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (57%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS; BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); US DOLLAR (76%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (75%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); BONDS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); GERMAN MARK (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



585 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: Auto Makers Begin to Rethink Prices

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Prices for new cars and trucks have risen faster than most Americans' income in the last 20 years, and the auto companies are now embroiled in a debate over whether they are leaving too many customers behind.
In recent months, average spending on a new car has exceeded $20,000 for the first time. That has produced healthy profits for the industry but also caused at least a few auto makers to begin looking for ways to make their vehicles less expensive. 
 By contrast, two decades ago, the typical new car cost $4,400 -- the equivalent of $12,800 after adjusting for inflation. In 1974, the average family spent one-third of a year's income to buy an average-priced car; last year, it needed to spend more than half.
"We know we're pricing some people out of the market," said Robert J. Eaton, chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation. He blamed government regulations for most of the increases.
Others, however, attribute the problem chiefly to what they say are the auto makers' tendency to build cars primarily for affluent customers. "The Big Three are adding too many features and pushing stickers up too much," said Susan Jacobs, president of Jacobs & Associates, an automotive consulting firm.
A few auto companies are planning to offer cheaper versions of their more expensive cars beginning this fall. For instance, Chrysler will produce a less luxurious Plymouth model of its new compact sedans for less than $15,000; Dodge and Chrysler dealers now offer them for up to $20,000. But with the industry enjoying a solid recovery, most executives are courting the more affluent customers.
More auto makers are aiming their marketing at well-paid college graduates in their 30's and older, and at two-income families. Even more than the Big Three, the Japanese have catered to these affluent buyers. Not only have Japanese companies brought out luxury vehicles, they have also upgraded family cars like the Toyota Camry and the Honda Accord.
In addition, the auto makers have seized on leasing -- once confined to luxury makes and company cars -- to help keep monthly payments within reach.
The current success of the auto companies' pricing approach may help explain one big paradox of the present economic expansion: the combination of strong growth with relatively stagnant average earnings. There are more than enough affluent people willing and able to pay higher car prices, consigning most Americans -- whose incomes have barely kept up with inflation -- to the used-car lot.
Indeed, while Japanese makers are being squeezed by the high yen, the overall strategy is generating robust profits for Detroit, as demonstrated by the announcement by Chrysler last week that it made more money during 1994 than it ever had before.
Many in Detroit say that affordability is not a serious problem. "I think it's rubbish," said Alexander J. Trotman, chairman and chief executive of the Ford Motor Company. He said customers bought more cars and trucks in 1994 than they had in any of the last five years.
"We're not forcing them to buy Explorers," Mr. Trotman said, referring to a hot-selling sport-utility vehicle. The base price for the four-door Explorer, with two-wheel drive, is $20,870, and most versions cost much more.
But some analysts say the auto makers cannot hope for long-term growth in the United States without broadening their notion of who their customers should be.
"More and more people are getting locked out of the new-car market," said Christopher W. Cedergren, senior vice president of the Autopacific Group, a marketing and consulting firm in Santa Ana, Calif. Even the typical buyer of small cars like the Ford Escort has an income of $45,000, he said, well above the median income for all American households., which was less than $37,000 in 1993, according to the most recent Government figures.
Indeed, there are already some signs of price resistance in the market. Higher interest rates appear to be scaring the most price-sensitive buyers away from showrooms. Ford plans to suspend production at two small-car plants and its Windstar mini-van factory this week because there are too many vehicles on dealer lots. Ford will also offer rebates on Windstar leases. The $20,000-plus price on the mini-van strains the budget for many families.
Similarly, Chrysler on Friday expanded rebates on the more luxurious models of its Neon subcompact, which were not selling well. It recently decided against adding workers at a Neon assembly plant, and it is rushing out cheaper, stripped-down versions.
But those are stopgap measures. To attract more bargain-oriented buyers, auto makers from Chrysler to BMW are also planning significantly less expensive versions of their higher-priced cars, beginning later this year. BMW, for instance, will offer a model for slightly less than $20,000, far less than its typical offering. Led by Toyota, several Japanese auto makers, whose prices have risen much faster than Detroit's, are hoping to recapture a position at the lower end of the market. They hope to develop small cars to sell in the $10,000 to $12,000 range.
At Chrysler, Plymouth will offer the Breeze, a version of the Chrysler Cirrus and Dodge Stratus compact sedans, for less than $15,000. Buyers will get some features, like air-conditioning and even compact-disk players, but not others, like V6 engines.
Yet even here, Chrysler is aiming Plymouth at people up to age 40, with incomes as high as $60,000.
General Motors, perhaps as much from desperation as conviction, has been the most aggressive in trying to win back less-affluent customers. In the family sedan market, G.M. priced its redesigned Lumina, together with its two-door version called the Monte Carlo, well under the competition, at $16,295 and $17,295, respectively, compared with $18,120 for the base Ford Taurus and $18,509 for the Dodge Intrepid.
Auto reviewers derided the G.M. car for bland styling, but customers liked it. In just five months, G.M. has sold 100,000 Luminas and Monte Carlos and taken orders for 120,000 more, a pace that would make the car one of the top 10 sellers of the year.
Some of G.M.'s rivals are noticing. "I take them very seriously," said Robert A. Lutz, Chrysler's president. "Value is what it's all about."
In general, however, the auto companies are taking advantage of the strong market today to raise prices further. That will leave the auto industry with an even narrower slice of the American population as customers.
Though the precise number has ebbed and flowed with the economy, the proportion of American families buying new vehicles has steadily slipped since the 1960's. "The trend is very clear and very direct," said Paul D. Ballew, an economist with the Detroit branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
Despite today's sales success, the industry's focus on the top tier could come back to haunt auto makers. It may even be restraining economic growth in general. If there were lower vehicle prices and greater income gains at the bottom of the ladder, Mr. Ballew said, the number of vehicles sold could well surge beyond the 15 million plus projected for this year. "The new-vehicle market is growing," he said, "but at an anemic pace."
Analysts' fears of a brewing "affordability crisis" are finally beginning to capture the attention of some auto makers, for two reasons.
First, many people are buying beyond their means. Subsidized lease deals and strong consumer confidence may be temporarily masking an underlying affordability woe.
That problem, which the auto makers worry will only worsen as they add equipment to vehicles to meet tightening emissions standards, could deepen the next sales downturn and make a rebound harder to achieve. For now, however, leasing -- once exclusively a means of making luxury cars more affordable -- has become much more important in selling cars and trucks of all types.
Second, some auto makers say they may be overlooking a lot of potential buyers. "There's a market opportunity there, clearly," said John F. Smith Jr., president and chief executive of the General Motors Corporation. "Affordability is an issue."
The North American International Auto Show here this month highlighted the challenge. A record turnout of car buffs and potential buyers marveled at coming products, ranging from Ford's new Taurus sedan to Toyota's RAV-4 baby sport utility. The prices, however, did not draw rave reviews.
"It's a rip-off," said Dan Burgess, a 21-year-old college student, who said he was interested in the Dodge Neon, which has a base price of $10,000 with destination charges but usually costs at least $2,000 more in dealer showrooms. "You've got to pay tons to get something to drive."
Like many other shoppers, Mr. Burgess said he would probably look at used cars, which now outsell new cars each year two to one and account for one of three dollars spent on vehicles, up from one in six in 1980.
The cheapest car sold in the United States is the Geo Metro subcompact, powered by a tiny three-cylinder engine and priced in its base version for $8,395. But its popularity is limited. Indeed, several executives and independent analysts said they thought it impossible, given regulations and material costs today, to build a profitable car with any customer appeal for less than $8,000.
While the auto makers have achieved enormous productivity gains and other cost decreases in recent years, they contend that those savings have allowed them only to restrain price increases, not offer lower-priced cars.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some auto makers are realizing that the affordability of new cars has become a serious problem. To try to hang on to some shoppers who are being priced out of the market, Chrysler plans ti iffer a version of its new Cirrus compact sedan, above, called the Breeze - for less than 15,000. (Peter Yates for The New York Times) (pg. D4)
 
Graphs: "Years of Sticker Shock" shows the average amount spent on a new car, and the rising cost in real terms from '70-'94 (3rd quarter). (Source: Commerce Department); "A Growing Burden" shows the number of weeks' earnings a median-income family would have had to spend to buy an average new car sold each year from '67-'94 (3rd quarter). (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D1); "Leasing on the Rise" shows the percentage of all new cars and light trucks that people will drive home this year expected to be leased. (Source: CNW Marketing/Research) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); DETROIT, MI, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; PRICES; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); FAMILY (89%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); SEDANS (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



586 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 272 words

HEADLINE: Asian Stocks Plunge on Rate Fears

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Jan. 23

 BODY:
Stock prices across Asia plunged today to their lowest levels in a year or more, as concern that the United States would raise interest rates pushed investors away from stocks.
In Japan, the Nikkei index of 225 issues fell 1,054.73 points, or 5.6 percent, to 17,785.49, below its level a year ago. In addition to fear about the anticipated action by the Federal Reserve, Japanese stocks were undermined by concern that the country's economic recovery would be hurt by the Kobe earthquake. 
 Analysts said foreign investors lowered their offers to get rid of electronics, steel and chemical stocks they bought last year as bets on the recovery.
In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index was down 3.6 percent, its lowest level in 20 months. The stock market there is affected by United States rates, because the territory shadows American monetary policy.
In Singapore, the Straits Times Industrials index was lower by more than 3 percent, to an 18-month low. Analysts there cited the Fed's policy making meeting on Jan. 31 to Feb. 1, when a decision will be made on whether to raise interest rates again to stall inflation.
Singapore's interest rates are closely tied to those in the United States because of trade and currency links, and higher interest rates make stocks less attractive than bonds and other fixed-income investments.
A report released on Friday showing that United States housing construction had reached a six-year high in 1994 heightened concern that accelerating inflation would prompt the Fed to raise rates.
Elsewhere, the stock markets in Australia, Taiwan, Thailand and Kuala Lumpur also fell sharply.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (71%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (92%); ASIA (92%); SINGAPORE (90%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); AUSTRALIA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



587 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: Orange County Aides Talk of 2 Mystery Funds

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif., Jan. 22

 BODY:
As much as $85 million in interest due to participants in the Orange County investment pool was placed in mystery accounts maintained by the county treasurer's office, the new chairman of the county Board of Supervisors said over the weekend.
The information will be turned over to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the district attorney's office, which are investigating possible wrongdoing in the investment loss now standing at $1.69 billion, Supervisor Gaddi Vasquez said at a news conference on Saturday. 
 Mr. Vasquez said auditors examining the county's books on Friday found that $82 million to $85 million had been diverted to a "mystery fund" consisting of two accounts called the 9 JJ Account and the Economic Uncertainty Fund.
"It doesn't please us at all to find another dimension to this crisis," said Bruce Bennett, the county attorney. "As of now, the records seem to show that the money was misallocated."
The county counsel, James Mercer, said the Supervisors did not know who created the 9 JJ Fund, or for what purpose. Orange County's administrative officer, Ernie Schneider, said he had asked the Board of Supervisors to set up the Economic Uncertainty Fund two years ago, but added that "Citron was responsible for keeping the accounts straight."
Robert L. Citron resigned as treasurer after Orange County filed for bankruptcy protection last month. The assistant treasurer and tax collector, Matthew Raabe, was placed on administrative leave after refusing to answer questions about the mystery accounts, Mr. Vasquez said.
The discrepancies, which involved interest revenue for fiscal 1994 and 1995, were found by auditors from an outside accounting firm, the county said. But it concluded that none of the diverted interest was spent and that the records appeared accurate enough for pool participants to be credited with the correct interest.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) ROBERT L SIGMON (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ORANGE COUNTY (CALIF); UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKRUPTCIES; STOCKS AND BONDS COUNTY GOVERNMENT (92%); COUNTIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUDITS (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%); 

PERSON: VASQUEZ, GADDI BRUCE W BENNETT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



588 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Budget Amendment May Be Short Of Enough States for Ratification

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
If Congress approves a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget, many state legislatures will probably ratify the measure quickly, but maybe too few to make it part of the Constitution.
A state-by-state survey by correspondents of The New York Times found that some legislatures, afraid of the fiscal consequences, would most likely refuse to ratify the amendment and that the outlook was cloudy enough in others to raise considerable doubt that it will ever be adopted. 
 To become part of the Constitution, an amendment must be approved by two-thirds majorities in both the House of Representatives and the Senate and then be ratified by the legislatures of three-quarters, or 38, of the states.
A balanced-budget amendment is a top priority of the Republicans now in control of Congress. The House plans to vote on the matter by the end of the month, and two-thirds approval of the amendment in one form or another is expected there, although not absolutely certain.
The Senate will not vote until next month at the earliest, and the prospect there is uncertain. It would take 34 votes in the Senate to block the amendment, and 33 of the 37 senators who voted against such a measure last year are still in office.
The situation in the states is even murkier. Many of the more than 7,400 state legislators are, of course, influenced by public opinion polls showing that 80 percent of Americans favor a balanced-budget amendment. But many state officials, especially governors, are concerned that balancing the Federal budget would force deep cuts in Federal aid to the states and place a heavy burden on the states to raise their own taxes or sharply reduce services.
Expressing the view of other students of state governments, Steven D. Gold, director of the Center for the Study of the States at the State University of New York in Albany, said he believed that support of a balanced-budget amendment would wane when state officials calculated what it might mean for their own budgets.
"Thus far," he said in an interview, "most state legislators haven't thought about what the effect would be. But the arithmetic is devastating."
According to the National Association of State Budget Officers, the states receive more than $600 billion a year in direct Federal aid.
Some states are more dependent than others. For instance, in 1992, Federal money made up more than 57 percent of Alabama's budget but only about 15 percent of the budgets of Hawaii and Delaware. On average, the association reports, about a quarter of the states' budgets consist of money from Washington.
More than 40 percent of that money is allocated to health care, mostly Medicaid. The rest goes largely for welfare payments, food and housing assistance, education, training, social services and transportation.
Balancing the Federal budget by 2002, as most versions of the constitutional amendment under consideration would require, would mean a combination of Federal tax increases and spending reductions of more than $1 trillion over the next seven years. If, as Republican leaders in Congress are insisting, taxes were not raised, and if Social Security, the military and essential costs like maintaining prisons were exempt from cutbacks, other Federal spending, including grants to states, would have to be reduced by about 30 percent.
Nonetheless, the governors and legislative leaders in many states said in interviews over the last two weeks that ratification of the amendment by their legislatures was a foregone conclusion.
In Utah, for example, the majority leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the House, both Republicans, did not need even a moment of reflection before answering a reporter's question about whether the Legislature would approve the amendment.
"Definitely," said Senator Lane Beattie.
"Without question," said Representative Melvin R. Brown.
In South Carolina, Gov. David Beasley, a Republican, said he hoped his state would be the first to ratify the amendment. The South Carolina Senate is controlled by Democrats, but Republicans have a majority in the House of Representatives this year for the first time in 118 years.
Other states where ratification looks certain include Alaska, Florida, Idaho, Indiana, Michigan, Montana, New Hampshire, North Dakota, Virginia and Wyoming.
Many politicians in those states argue that they are required by law or by their own constitutions to balance the budgets in their states and that the Federal Government should be bound by the same discipline.
"We just have a mind-set that if we can live within our budget, the Federal Government can live within its budget," said John Dorso, the Republican majority leader of the North Dakota House.
In fact, every state but Vermont has a legal requirement that its budget be balanced. But many states avoid this proscription in a variety of ways. They all issue bonds to finance roads, bridges, sewers and other capital projects, and many resort to outright gimmicks to make it appear as if the budget has no deficit.
Donna J. Boley, a retired bookkeeper who is the Republican minority leader of the West Virginia Senate, explained how it works in her state: "You appoint authorities -- parkway, regional jail, school building, solid waste -- which incur long-term debt without a vote of the people."
In several small states, the legislature meets only for a brief period every other year. In some, this year's session will be over before Congressional action is complete, so they will probably not be able to consider a balanced-budget amendment until 1997. But in Montana, the amendment is so popular that Gov. Marc Racicot, a Republican, may call a special session to vote on ratification.
For one reason or another, Hawaii, Vermont and West Virginia are among a handful of states where the amendment does not seem to stand a chance. In West Virginia, for instance, the strong opposition of United States Senator Robert C. Byrd means that the matter will probably never come to a vote. In Vermont, Gov. Howard Dean, a Democrat, has taken the lead in warning officeholders in other states that a balanced-budget amendment might mean that the Federal Government would simply foist obligations onto the states.
In New York, the Legislature's lower house, the Assembly, will probably reject the amendment if it ever reaches a vote there. Sheldon Silver, the Democratic Speaker, said he was "concerned that in times of recession, when deficit spending is used to stimulate the economy, that particular method would be lost to us."
In most of the other large states, including California, Pennsylvania and Illinois, which, like New York, have full-time legislatures with highly trained professional staffs, the leading politicians are withholding judgment on the amendment until they figure out the degree to which it would require them to raise their own states' taxes or lower their own spending.
In interviews, many officials agreed with Robert C. Jubelirer, the President pro tem of the Pennsylvania Senate. "These guys aren't going to ratify a balanced-budget amendment," Mr. Jubelirer, a Republican, said of his colleagues, "and then be told you have to raise taxes in Pennsylvania. If we're told that is not the case, I think ratification is do-able."
Officials in Connecticut took a similar stance. In New Jersey, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, a Republican, strongly supports the amendment in principle, her spokeswoman said, and would like to lead the charge for it.
The issue of a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced Federal budget has been before the states in one form or another for years. Twenty-nine legislatures have voted for a measure calling for a constitutional convention to deal with the matter. But most of those states acted before 1980, and the legislatures of three states -- Alabama, Florida and Louisiana -- subsequently voted to rescind their votes on the convention.
Many state officials say they want any constitutional amendment to include a provision prohibiting the Federal Government from passing on new obligations to the states without money to cover them. A measure limiting, although not outlawing, what are called unfunded mandates is now pending in Congress and will almost certainly become law. But chances are remote that such a provision would be written into a constitutional amendment.
Once Congress approves a constitutional amendment, there is no limit on how long the states have to ratify it. But the prevailing view among proponents and opponents of the balanced-budget measure is that if 38 legislatures do not adopt it in the first year or two, it will never be added to the Constitution.
"The political momentum slides across the country when time drags," said George D. Caruolo, leader of the Democratic majority in the Rhode Island Senate. "People become more interested in parochial concerns, and the whole thing becomes more complicated."
Parochial concerns are, indeed, the chief enemy of the balanced-budget amendment. "When it comes to that vote," said David Harris, the Republican Secretary of Finance and Administration in New Mexico, the first question legislators will ask will be, "What does it do to us?"

GRAPHIC: Table: "AROUND THE NATION: Money From the Federal Government" lists the percentage of each state's budget that came from the Federal Government in direct aid in the 1992 fiscal year. (Source: National Association of State Budget Officers)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ALABAMA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GOVERNORS (US); TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FORECASTS; FEDERAL AID (US) ; STATES (US) LEGISLATIVE BODIES (95%); BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MEDICAID (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); PUBLIC HOUSING (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



589 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A2-9
 
SUICIDE ATTACK KILLS 19 IN ISRAEL
One or more Muslim suicide bombers set off two explosions at a crowded bus stop, killing at least 19 people, wounding 61 and casting shadows over troubled Mideast peace talks. A1 

Israel acts to tighten controls on new building by settlers.A6
 
IN JAPAN, PLANS TO REBUILD
In the quake-smashed city of Kobe, Bank of Japan officials began planting the seeds of economic regeneration with those brave enough to begin thinking of the future. A1
 
QUAKE'S TOLL KEEPS RISING
Heavy rains threatened to touch off landslides and topple weakened buildings in Kobe and also complicated the search for nearly 200 people still listed as missing. The death toll approached 5,000. A8
 
REPORTERS WALK OUT IN HAITI
Reporters at Haitian National Television charge that the new, democratic Government of President Aristide is interfering with news broadcasts. A3
 
DISSENT OVER U.S. BOSNIA POLICY
Sharp dissent emerged at the American Embassy in Sarajevo over the Administration's decision to change its policy and engage in direct talks with the Bosnian Serbs. A5
 
MORE VIOLENCE FLARES IN ALGERIA
Ten days after Islamic and secularist opposition parties in Algeria offered a proposal to end the civil war, hope for peace has evaporated in new violence. A6
 
With terrorism receding, Peru takes on drug gangs. A2
 
Suicide attempts are rising among Cuban refugees in Panama. A3
 
The U.N. plans a world conference on poverty, despite the risks. A7
 
In France, thousands protest the dismissal of a leftist bishop. A9
 
Kigali Journal: Rwandans are mourning, and marrying. A4
 
National A10-13, B6
 
KENNEDY MATRIARCH IS DEAD
Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, an indomitable figure who somehow learned to endure, died in Cape Cod, Mass. She was 104. A1
 
BUDGET AMENDMENT OUTLOOK
An informal survey of state politicians found that some legislatures may refuse to ratify a balanced-budget amendment. A1
 
A REINVENTED PRESIDENT
Bill Clinton will sketch a vision of how he will cooperate, and compete, with the ascendant Republicans in his State of the Union address, his advisers said. A12
 
BETTER BOSSES ON CAPITOL HILL
Will a bill that would apply labor laws to Congressional members and their staffs make any difference to workers on Capitol Hill? A12
 
TWO VISIONS OF O. J. SIMPSON
The prosecution and defense strategies for the crime that has captivated America's imagination. A1
 
The leading television networks plan extensive trial coverage. B6
 
Two other tabloid scandals share the day in court. B6
 
DATA HIGHWAY ROBBERY
Intruders have devised a new way to break into computer systems, leaving many of the 20 million users on the global Internet vulnerable to eavesdropping and theft. A1
 
WATER RATIONING BEGINS AGAIN
Parts of Puerto Rico began rationing water because of what officials say is a continuing drought. A10
 
AIRLINE ADS TO BE MONITORED
The Transportation Department will announce a new program to more closely scrutinize marketing practices by airlines. A10
 
QUAKES ARE "A FACT OF LIFE"
Oakland Journal: Predictions of geological disaster along the Hayward fault in California have not scared residents into moving. A11
 
DISTURBING LACK OF CLUES
The National Transportation Safety Board will open hearings on last September's USAir crash. B6
 
DODD ATTACKS GINGRICH
Wasting no time taking the offensive, the new chairman of the Democratic National Committee attacked the House Speaker. A13
 
Metro Digest B1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-16
 
Wartime artwork thefts. C11
 
The Golden Globe Awards C11
 
National arts grants made. C12
 
Theater: A revival of "Jesus Christ Superstar" C12
 
Music: "Harvey Milk." C11
 
Brahms's complex clarinet works. C13
 
Books: "Vanishing Act," a novel. C16
 
Book award nominations. C16
 
Television: "American Cinema." C14
 
Sports C1-9
 
Basketball: Stellar Stockton. C1
 
Mason paces Knicks. C6
 
St. John's loses again. C7
 
Krzyzewski out for season. C7
 
Columns: Anderson on baseball. C5
 
Football: Chargers' road. C1
 
Hockey: Nedved lifts Rangers. C2
 
Islanders and Devils both play to ties. C2
 
Racing: Holy Bull wins return. C1
 
Tennis: Trailing by 2 sets, Sampras wins. C3
 
Obituaries B7-8
 
Alex Groza, basketball standout at Kentucky. B8
 
Editorials/Op-Ed
 
A14-15 Editorials
 
The contract's false tax promise.
 
Don't punish the children.
 
Mammoths in the rabbit hole.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: "A prized American privilege."
 
William Safire: Return of Whitewater.
 
Ronnie Dugger: Boss Tweed, hacker.
 
Neediest Cases B2
 
Chronicle B10
 
Bridge C16
 
Crossword C16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HAITI (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (72%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); JAPAN (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); ALGERIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); HAITI (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%); RWANDA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (72%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ROBBERY (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); SUICIDE (73%); POLITICS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); RELIGION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); DROUGHT (70%); WEATHER (70%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (68%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); REFUGEES (67%); COMPUTER CRIME (65%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (65%); SCANDALS (64%); INTERNET & WWW (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



590 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 5; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1066 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Embassy Officials in Bosnia at Odds Over Talks With Serbs

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Sharp dissent emerged at the United States Embassy in Sarajevo today over the Clinton Administration's decision to change its policy and engage in direct negotiations with the Bosnian Serbs despite their rejection of an international peace plan.
The dissent centered on what one official described as attempts by the State Department to oust the American Ambassador to Bosnia, Victor Jackovich, who has always rejected direct talks with the Serbs until they accept the peace plan. He was recalled to Washington on Wednesday for what were officially described as "consultations." 
 "These are not consultations," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "They have offered Mr. Jackovich another ambassadorship and they are trying to ease him out because he opposes bringing the Serbs to the negotiating table in this way."
Charity Dennis, a State Department spokeswoman, said she had no information on why Mr. Jackovich was in Washington at such a sensitive time in Bosnia. Mr. Jackovich did not respond to two calls to his Virginia home.
Charles H. Thomas, the United States envoy to Bosnian peace negotiations, carried out the new American policy today by going to the Bosnian Serbs' stronghold of Pale and meeting with their leader, Radovan Karadzic. The change in policy was announced on Thursday in a letter from Secretary of State Warren Christopher to Bosnia's President, Alija Izetbegovic.
In contrast to his previous visits to Bosnia, Mr. Thomas was not accompanied by the officials from Russia, Britain, France and Germany, the countries that with the United States make up what diplomats call the contact group.
Until last month, when cracks began to appear in the Clinton Administration's policy of isolating the Bosnian Serbs until they accepted the contact group plan, such visits to Pale were barred.
Mr. Jackovich stood strongly behind this former policy of using diplomatic isolation, military threats and economic pressure to compel the Serbs to bend.
But on Thursday, the day after Mr. Jackovich was recalled to Washington, his deputy at the embassy, John Menzies, went to Pale for unpublicized talks with the Bosnian Serbs. "Yes, I went to Pale," Mr. Menzies said, but declined to give further details.
It was on Thursday that Mr. Christopher's letter to President Izetbegovic arrived, explaining that the United States had decided "to resume a dialogue with Pale" because of the new opportunities afforded by a four-month cease-fire that went into effect on Jan. 1.
Thus even before Mr. Izetbegovic, who was then in Cairo, had time to respond to Mr. Christopher's letter, the ranking American diplomat in Sarajevo had gone to Pale. The town near Sarajevo is the capital of what the rebel Serbs in Bosnia call their republic. The Serbs who hold 70 percent of Bosnian territory after 33 months of war.
A United Nations Security Council resolution approved last September calls for an end to any political dialogue with the Serbs until they accept the contact group plan in full. This plan would oblige the Serbs to give up a third of the land they hold and accept 49 percent of Bosnia, with the balance going to a Muslim-Croat federation.
Mr. Christopher's letter said the American decision to engage the Bosnian Serbs in a dialogue was conditional on the roads into Sarajevo being opened. The roads into this encircled city were still closed today when Mr. Thomas went to Pale.
Mr. Thomas plans to go to there again on Monday before the expected arrival in Sarajevo of his contact group colleagues. Thus the United States, in a sharp reversal of policy, has now taken the lead in talks with the Serbs.
Mr. Jackovich's absence from Sarajevo at a time when Mr. Thomas and Mr. Menzies are visiting Pale fits a pattern established during the last two months.
The Ambassador was also called away shortly before Charles E. Redman, who used to have Mr. Thomas's job and is now Ambassador to Germany, went to Pale on an exploratory visit in December. The man who accompanied Mr. Redman at that time was Mr. Menzies, who took up his post in November and also accompanied Mr. Thomas today.
It was Mr. Redman's visit that initiated the Clinton Administration's softening toward the Serbs. This continued later in December when former President Jimmy Carter -- clearly acting for the Administration -- engaged in the shuttle diplomacy between Pale and Sarajevo that led to the current cease-fire. Once again, while Mr. Carter was here, Mr. Jackovich was out of town.
Dissent has long racked the shifting American diplomatic approach to Bosnia. In 1992, at the beginning of the war, several diplomats quit the State Department because of what they regarded as the Bush Administration's inadequate response to the Serbs' policy of killing or evicting Muslims in the territory they held.
The Serbian policy has been toned down since then and the killing has stopped, but forced evictions and mistreatment of Muslims continue.
Officials said Assistant Secretary of State Richard C. Holbrooke had spoken to Mr. Menzies about Mr. Jackovich's present recall even before the Ambassador knew that he was going back to Washington. Mr. Holbrooke was described as the architect of the new American policy.
Shortly before he left for Washington, Mr. Jackovich confided to people who know him that he found the Serbs' ability to set the agenda in Bosnia excruciating and the Clinton Administration's reluctance to use even mild force to back up diplomacy dismaying.
The aim of Mr. Thomas during his current visit is to persuade Mr. Karadzic and the Muslim-led Bosnian Government to agree to resume political negotiations on a peace settlement. The Bosnian Government insists that the Serbs first accept the contact group peace map, which was initially portrayed as a take-it-or-leave-it plan.
But the Serbs do not want to accept a plan that would divide their territory into what they say are indefensible and economically weak fragments. The most they have offered is to resume talks "on the basis of the contact group plan."
American officials said that the fact Mr. Thomas went alone to Pale was insignificant. They said other contact group officials were due to arrive on Monday and Mr. Thomas simply took advantage of a couple of spare days in Europe to pursue talks with the Serbs. Up to now, the contact group officials have always acted together.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (54%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (51%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE JOHN MENZIES WHOLESALE (52%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); STATE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (69%); STATE DEPARTMENT (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; UNITED STATES (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (54%); VIRGINIA, USA (51%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (92%); PEACE PROCESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CIVIL WAR (67%); APPROVALS (64%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; JACKOVICH, VICTOR (AMB) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



591 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Despite the Risks, the U.N. Plans a World Conference on Poverty

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 20

 BODY:
Threatened by a general decline in foreign aid worldwide, a Republican-led Congress bent on cutting American contributions, and a White House that is cool toward internationalism except where trade is involved, the United Nations is nonetheless preparing for its first conference on poverty and other social problems.
Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and diplomats who have been promoting what they call the World Summit for Social Development see it as a chance to demonstrate that the United Nations, far from being only a peacekeeping agent, has a major role in alleviating social ills in an age of petty wars and widening income gaps. 
 The conference, now being planned in two weeks of meetings in New York, is one of the most ambitious -- and risky -- events the organization has planned for its 50th anniversary year.
So far nearly 100 world leaders are expected to attend the meeting, which is scheduled in Copenhagen from March 6 to 12. President Clinton is not expected to go, diplomats said. But the State Department says a delegation leader will be chosen after the Administration has time to study the agenda, which should be completed next week.
"The summit in a sense is the true end of the cold war," Juan Somavia, Chile's representative to the United Nations and the originator of the conference, said in an interview. "What we intend to say is 'look, this is the first time in history -- not only in the history of the U.N. but in the history of the world -- that we are getting together to discuss the problems of ordinary people of the world.' That's quite a major thing."
The problems of ordinary people include more than a billion lives condemned to poverty. According to the United Nations, 13 to 18 million people die annually of causes related to poverty.
One of every 10 people cannot find work at a living wage; in rural areas worldwide, 40 percent of women work for no wages at all. Civil wars, overpopulation and other forces are driving millions to migrate within and between countries. Illegal trafficking in people is big business.
The planning meetings have already reignited a smoldering debate between rich and poor nations over the roots of poverty and underdevelopment. At the simplest level, it is a battle for dwindling resources between the world's industrial North and underdeveloped South, with each side accusing the other of not doing enough to make life better for the world's poorest people.
On the table are arguments about whether free-market economic reforms are the right prescription for developing nations, and whether aid and trade partners have the right to ask questions about unfair labor practices, the employment of children and human rights in general.
"The whole summit comes about because of the insecurity of people after the cold war," said Mr. Somavia, the originator of the conference. "We have less insecurity in the military sphere and more insecurity in the personal and community spheres. We've replaced the threat of the nuclear bomb with the threat of a social bomb. There is no society that is saying, we don't have the problem of poverty, unemployment or social integration."
To compound these challenges, the conference organizers say that public corruption is growing -- in some cases draining up to 10 percent of a country's gross domestic product. Poor countries now owe $1.4 trillion in debts to outside lenders, nearly twice as much as a decade ago.
In response, there are more calls from poor countries, especially those in Africa, for foreign debts to be forgiven and for international lending organizations to stop making support contingent on changes in economic policy.
But at the World Bank, Armeane M. Choksi, vice president for human resources development and a citizen of India, says that a confrontational attitude toward donor nations and banks by governments and private groups would be self-defeating given the present climate surrounding foreign aid.
"If the developing countries take the position that there has to be a massive transfer of resources from the rich to the poor, they've lost the battle even before they begin," Mr. Choksi said in an interview. "We in the developing countries -- and I'm from one -- have to accept the notion that we have been independent for 40, 50 years. The primary responsibility for improving the welfare of our people is ours."
At the scheduled conference delegates will consider proposals to share the burden of development equitably. The agenda, now being adjusted to meet the concerns of dozens of delegations, is expected to ask governments to collect taxes and mobilize savings more efficiently, while working to cushion the effects of the economic adjustments recommended by international agencies.
Developing countries would be asked to cut defense spending and arms production in favor of programs like education and health.
Richer nations and world organizations would be asked to share more money and expertise and to help ease or cancel the debts of developing countries.
The goal is to lay the groundwork for international policy to deal with these social issues.
Mr. Somavia is confident that some consensus will emerge in Copenhagen, and that the conference will build on past summits -- on the environment in Rio in 1992, Human Rights in Geneva in 1993 and population in Cairo in 1994 -- toward what he calls "a major effort at defining the agenda of the 21st century." A summit on women's issues will take place in Beijing in September and another on human habitation is to be held in Istanbul next year.
"Without anybody having planned it, or having a grand design," he said, "the fact is that these are all conferences that have to do with the life of people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHILE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (52%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLD WAR (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LIVING WAGE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WOMEN WORKERS (75%); CIVIL WAR (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); WOMEN (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (61%); CHILD LABOR (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; BOUTROS-GHALI, BOUTROS (SEC GEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



592 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Plans A New Vision Once Again

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22

 BODY:
Bill Clinton has revived, reinvigorated or reinvented himself half a dozen times since he set out to win the White House, and in his State of the Union Message on Tuesday night, his advisers say, he aims to do so once again by sketching a vision of how he will cooperate -- and compete -- with the new Republican ascendancy.
In the 11 weeks since the midterm elections ended Democratic control of Congress -- and many of his own hopes for sweeping legislation -- the President has consulted with people as diverse as historians and "personal growth" gurus in contemplating what to make of the rest of his term, and how to win another. He now plans a speech that will be less a list of new proposals than a litany of the themes that helped elect him: economic security for working Americans, reform of Washington's wayward ways, and shared responsibility between a caring Government and committed citizenry. 
 Mr. Clinton may offer some specific examples of how to meet those goals, like raising the minimum wage, consolidating various government departments or tightening campaign finance and lobbying laws, aides said. But they said the 30- to 40-minute speech would be mostly what one called "a dialogue with the American people about where the country should be going," a phrase Mr. Clinton himself used Saturday in a speech to the Democratic National Committee's winter meeting here.
In recent weeks, advisers say, the President has repeatedly expressed deep frustration that he and the Democrats have failed to communicate a rationale as succinct or compelling as the Republicans' bold vows of change in a time of social and economic upheaval and voter discontent. At the same time, though he has been reticent about direct attacks, his aides say Mr. Clinton believes that many of the prevailing prescriptions for slashing government programs or curtailing welfare benefits are punitive, simplistic or would benefit the wealthy at the expense of working Americans.
Accordingly, Mr. Clinton hopes to use the singular spotlight of the speech to a joint session of Congress -- with Speaker Newt Gingrich looking over his shoulder in the House chamber -- not only to pledge cooperation on tasks like shrinking government and cutting taxes, but to argue that his Administration was doing this well before the Republicans took charge. He is also expected to vow to oppose any effort to roll back some of his proudest achievements, like the ban on assault weapons or the national service program in which college-age students work in exchange for scholarships.
"Resilience is his middle name," one White House aide said today. "And I think you'll see a man who relishes the fight."
Finally, aides said, Mr. Clinton plans an appeal for renewed civic participation.
"We've got an excuse -- I do -- for being a couch potato at the Super Bowl," Mr. Clinton told the Democratic Party leaders this weekend. "I'm not good enough to play -- or young enough, or strong enough. But we're all good enough to play in citizenship." He said that his 1992 campaign had succeeded partly by inspiring participation. "We did all those town meetings, we got on those buses and rode across the country, we stopped in little crossroads where nobody had ever been before. And we treated people like they had good sense and could be involved in a dialogue about our country's future."
For much of the last two years, Presidential advisers acknowledge, Mr. Clinton has forsaken the bully pulpit for such deep immersion in the details of policy and legislative battles that he has not managed to win credit for his victories on free trade and economic recovery, on cutting the deficit or shrinking Government by 100,000 employees.
"He's got a whole new chance, not just Tuesday night, but starting Tuesday night," one senior Administration official said.
Mr. Clinton's longtime friends have seen him come back from the brink time and again in his long career, though no one thinks it will be easy this time.
"He's always believed government has an obligation to help people, but that people who get government help have an obligation to give something back to the commonwealth," said Al From, president of the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, the "New Democratic" organization Mr. Clinton helped found. "I think he came here and got caught up in all the old battles of Washington. Sometimes you need a two-by-four between the eyes."
Last weekend, the President and Hillary Rodham Clinton summoned Mr. From, Vice President Al Gore and his wife, Tipper, historians, senior White House aides and experts on "reinventing government" including the author David Osborne to Camp David for a three-and-a-half-hour discussion of what Mr. Clinton sees as a crossroads in American political history, and how he might respond.
"Part of the discussion was of how to find a coherent way of articulating what Democrats believe in," said Alan Brinkley, a historian at Columbia University who specializes in modern American politics. "Everyone was not in complete accord, but I think there was general agreement that Democrats needed to find a way to defend the idea of government without necessarily defending everything the current government does."
In recent weeks, Mr. Clinton has strived to find such a balance, pledging a new round of reorganization and cuts in government spending to finance tax breaks for education and families with children that he calls a "Middle Class Bill of Rights."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Facing a challenge from the new Republican majority, President Clinton is trying to reshape his image. He and his wife, Hillary, attended a Democratic National Committee meeting on Saturday, where he said he would engage in a "dialogue with the American people." (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (54%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); GUN CONTROL (71%); HISTORY (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%); MINIMUM WAGE (52%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



593 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: The Contract's False Tax Promise

 BODY:
The Republicans loaded their "Contract With America" with tax cuts they say are honorably designed to stimulate economic growth. Democrats sneered at key proposals -- tax cuts for business investment and capital gains -- because they would overwhelmingly benefit well-to-do families.
These two proposals are definitely flawed. But the problem is not simply one of equity. If lowering the tax on capital gains -- the profit from selling stocks, bonds and other assets -- and the taxes on business investment would boost the economy, then Congress could consider embracing the contract, and find other ways to collect additional money from high-income investors. 
 The real problem is that these two ideas would harm the economy by steering some individuals toward worthless investments. That the G.O.P. has proposed ideas at odds with its lofty rhetoric fuels suspicion that its real motives lie elsewhere -- perhaps lining the pockets of favored benefactors.
On capital gains, the contract would tax only half, instead of all, of the profits from selling assets. That would reduce the top rate for many investors from 28 percent to below 20 percent. The G.O.P. would also exclude from taxes the portion of profit -- the rise in the price of an asset since the date of purchase -- that is due to inflation.
The proposal is misguided. For starters, it is cleverly structured to cost the Treasury only small amounts during the first few years but open up gaping holes in the budget thereafter. The proposal would apply tax cuts to capital gains from past investments, a wasteful giveaway that cannot possibly achieve the stated purpose of stimulating future investment.
There is another, more complicated, flaw. Consider investors who borrow money to purchase stock. A portion of interest payments compensates lenders for inflation during the life of the loan. Under the contract, investors would continue to deduct all of their interest payments, including the part due to inflation. But they would be allowed to exempt from taxes the part of their profit caused by inflation. This lopsided accounting for inflation creates a tax break so large that it can steer investment into unproductive assets. The investment loses money, but the investor gets rich by way of a large tax deduction.
An honest capital gain cut would apply only to new investment. It would cover those new assets that contribute to workplace productivity. That could include corporate stock. But it would exclude collectibles and, perhaps, real estate. Even if Congress took this honest route, the economy might not know the difference: many studies indicate that cutting capital gains taxes packs little wallop. Savings and investment would hardly budge.
On business investment, the contract is equally gimmicky. The cost to the Treasury would remain small in the first few years but then explode. Current law allows businesses (and reasonably so) to deduct the cost of expensive equipment over its lifetime. The contract would change the accounting rules for inflation to allow businesses to deduct far more than the initial purchase price. This devious provision would, once again, encourage wasteful investments because investors become eligible for huge tax breaks.
A sensible tax code would encourage investors to put their money where it would produce valuable goods and services. The contract, by contrast, would tell them to put their money where it would produce the biggest tax break. That is a ticket to economic stagnation.
The right reason to reject these two parts of the contract is that they would harm the economy. The fact that the contract would shower 30 percent of the tax savings on the 2 percent of families earning more than $200,000 per year adds a galling insult to fairness.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; EDITORIALS; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY TAX LAW (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); BONDS (72%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



594 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 180 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Won the Right to Choose Its Destiny;
Real Foundation Stones

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman in "Ha Noi or Ha Loi" (column, Jan. 15) describes an incident in Hanoi where every morning a Vietnamese woman crouched on the sidewalk with her bathroom scale, and he gave her a dollar and weighed himself. 
 In the mid-1970's near the corner of Eighth Avenue and 38th Street, a severely crippled man accompanied by his dog sat on a dolly with an open handbag filled with ballpoint pens. People would drop spare change into his handbag.
This man and the Vietnamese woman are not even micro-entrepreneurs; they are beggars. To our shame and their credit they had found a way to overcome the reluctance of people to give them money and thus preserved their dignity.
The real "foundation stones" of the Asian economic miracle are the hundreds of thousands of Asians who work in industry under substandard conditions for subsistence wages. We in the "developed" countries have yet to learn what the Vietnamese development expert knew, that unsustainable development is killing us all.
 
JAMES T. DETTE
Weehawken, N.J., Jan. 15, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: VIETNAM (90%); VIET NAM (90%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; VIETNAM (90%); VIET NAM (90%); UNITED STATES (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); HANOI, VIETNAM (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; MOHAIEMEN, NAEEM THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



595 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 276 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Won the Right to Choose Its Destiny

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman makes a convincing case in "Good Morning, Vietnam" (column, Jan. 18) for ending our grudges against Vietnam. "It's time that we declare victory," he announces. 
 The Vietnamese fought a bloody, prolonged war for the right to choose. Twenty-nine years later they have chosen the free-market system. If there is victory to be declared here, it is the Vietnamese people's.
Two years ago I was a delegate at the Naval Academy Foreign Affairs Conference at Annapolis, Md. One featured speaker declared his joy at seeing Coca-Cola and Levi jeans attain "most wanted" status in Vietnam. We didn't need to fight the war, he said, we have won it anyway.
The point I made to the speaker also applies to Mr. Friedman's column: The Vietnamese people have embraced the free market, their model of socialism having failed to bring equity and progress.
Today the United States is the dominant global economy. American commodities fetch a high premium in any crude bartering transaction or sophisticated trade system. Vietnamese teen-agers are not embracing jeans and soft drinks in some misty-eyed ideological realignment.
Mr. Friedman also recalls a taxi driver who listened to BBC tapes. If he is trying to learn English, does it matter what the source is?
If Mr. Friedman is mourning that European businessmen are taking advantage of the investment vacuum, he has a point. But his desire to see the Dallas Cowboys replace Manchester United in the minds of the average Vietnamese smacks of something other than business interest. It seems a call for cultural aggression.
 
NAEEM MOHAIEMEN
New York, Jan. 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); MANU (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (54%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (93%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (56%); 

CITY: ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (57%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (56%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; US-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOFT DRINKS (69%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (55%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; DETTE, JAMES T THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



596 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 54; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 304 words

HEADLINE: Vietnam Won the Right to Choose Its Destiny;
What's in the Archives?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
It may be wise for the United States to establish full diplomatic relations with Vietnam, as Thomas L. Friedman advises (column, Jan. 18). But some of his arguments are based on misconceptions. 
 The Vietnamese army that repulsed the 1979 Chinese invasion hardly fits Mr. Friedman's adjective "tiny." The People's Army of Vietnam was then one of the world's largest: 500,000 men organized in 14 infantry divisions and 33 regiments.
Furthermore, to argue based on that victory that "there is no more powerful counterweight to Beijing than Hanoi" ignores the huge increase in Chinese power over the last 15 years. The Chinese economy has quintupled since 1978, thanks to liberalized economic policies.
Until recently, the Vietnamese economy was shrinking under the old Communist system. As a result, the ratio of power between Vietnam and China has shifted markedly in China's favor. If the United States seeks allies to contain China in Southeast Asia, it might look to Thailand, Malaysia and Indonesia. Vietnam will likely need decades to match their economic performance.
Mr. Friedman ignores the real missing in action issue. I agree there are no Vietnam-era prisoners of war left alive. But Oleg Kalugin, the former K.G.B. agent, and the Harvard researcher Stephen J. Morris have raised questions about hundreds of Americans who possibly remained in enemy hands after the supposed full exchange of prisoners in 1973.
Such stories may be false. But there is reason to believe Hanoi has not shown all its archives contain about possible atrocities. Until this is settled, the United States should refrain from sending an ambassador to Hanoi.
 
BRIAN R. SULLIVAN
Senior Research Professor
Institute for National Strategic
Studies, National Defense University
Washington, Jan. 18, 1995

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

COMPANY: PRISONERS OF WAR (55%); PRISONERS OF WAR (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (55%); PRISONERS OF WAR (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIETNAM; UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%); VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (88%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HANOI, VIETNAM (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-VIETNAM INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; SULLIVAN, BRIAN R THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



597 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
A SCHOOL WHERE IT'S O.K. TO EXCEL
Any school with a selected population is destined to shine, especially if it has high standards, advanced courses, strong leadership and involved parents. Midwood High School in Flatbush, Brooklyn, with 55 percent of its students selected for excellence from all over the city, has all of those, and extras, like access to Brooklyn College across the street. But there is something else about Midwood. By all evidence, it succeeds unusually well for the students who come from the neighborhood, too. Midwood manages to overcome what educators say is one of the gravest problems in schools today -- peer pressure against achievement. Metro Matters, B3. 

TEEN-AGER STABS MOTHER WITH SCISSORS
A Brooklyn teen-ager was charged with second-degree murder yesterday after the police said she stabbed her mother to death with scissors in the family's Starrett City apartment on Saturday. The girl, Elizabeth DeCicco, 15, an honors student at James Madison High School, was angry when her mother, Sharon, demanded the scissors during an argument shortly after noon, a police spokesman said. When the mother demanded the scissors again and was about to strike the girl, the spokesman said, "The scissors were then thrust in the direction of the mother and went into her chest." B3.
 
5 WOUNDED IN SHOOTING AT APARTMENT
Five people were shot and wounded, two critically, when three gunmen forced their way into an apartment in Brownsville, Brooklyn, looking for crack cocaine and money late Saturday night, the police said. After the male victims were told to strip, the gunmen opened fire for unknown reasons, one officer said. B3.
 
PATIENT'S CASE THROWS LIGHT ON ESCAPES
Nestor Villamil slipped away from Creedmoor Psychiatric Center in Queens Village six times in the span of a year. But that was in 1991 and 1992. Now, Mr. Villamil does not run away anymore. His case provides important clues about how to prevent the mentally ill from fleeing state hospitals by the thousands. The answers suggested by his experience are not just stronger locks, higher fences or more vigilant guards, but better job programs, improved drug therapy and some measure of freedom and dignity. B4.
 
HIGHER RATES LIKELY FOR CITY'S BONDS
The problems in balancing New York City's $31.8 billion budget have made investors nervous enough that they are likely to exact slightly higher interest rates this week, when the city sells $645 million of new bonds. That will eventually translate into millions of dollars more that the city must pay out. Business Day, D1.
 
REGION
 
L.I.R.R. SUSPECT PLANS STRATEGY
Colin Ferguson spent the weekend at the Nassau County jail preparing the opening statement he plans to deliver in court this week against charges that he murdered six people on a Long Island Rail Road train more than a year ago. Alton G. Rose, one of Mr. Ferguson's legal advisers, said that despite his objections, Mr. Ferguson, who is acting as his own lawyer, planned to make his own opening statement. Mr. Rose joined Mr. Ferguson at the jail yesterday to help plan a defense strategy and to go over the statement, which the judge in the case has tentatively scheduled for Thursday. Reporter's Notebook, B5.
 
GUARD HURT IN MOVIE THEATER SHOOTING
Moviegoers waiting in line to buy candy and popcorn dropped to the floor when gun shots were fired into the crowded lobby of the Commack Multiplex Cinemas theater complex in Commack, L.I., wounding a security guard. The shooting was the latest of a series of violent incidents in theaters in the New York area and on Long Island over the last several years, and the third at the Commack Multiplex in the last three and a half years. B5.
 
3 KILLED IN HOUSE FIRE IN NEW JERSEY
A woman and two young sisters were killed and three sisters and their grandfather were critically burned in a fire in a two-family house in Irvington, N.J., officials said. Eighteen people lived in the building, including 11 from one family, the police said. An off-duty Newark police officer reported the fire and helped rescue some people from the burning building, the police said. B5.
 
 Neediest Cases B2
 
 Chronicle B10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KGC (NYSE) (58%); K (TSX) (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND RAIL ROAD CO (50%); MIDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: MIDWOOD HIGH SCHOOL (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); MURDER (88%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); BUDGETS (69%); MEN (68%); BOND ISSUES (64%); COCAINE (64%); MENTAL ILLNESS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: COLIN FERGUSON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



598 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: With Few Clues, Hearing Will Open on USAir Crash Near Pittsburgh That Killed 132

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Four months after USAir Flight 427 rolled abruptly to the left and plunged to the ground at 300 miles an hour, killing all 132 people on board, the National Transportation Safety Board will open hearings in Pittsburgh today with a disturbing lack of clues and no working hypothesis about what caused the crash.
By the time the safety board gets to the hearing stage, said a spokesman, Mike Benson, "you usually have some better indications than what you have here." 
 In this case, Mr. Benson said, "We're going to have to piece this together, and it will take much more extensive work on our part."
About 30 witnesses are expected to testify over four or five days on a variety of subjects, including the possibility that a rudder control unit could have malfunctioned and caused the accident. The device helps keep the nose of the plane pointed forward.
Witnesses will also give information about pilot training, maintenance and other factors that could have contributed to the crash of the USAir jetliner, a 7-year-old Boeing 737, last Sept. 8 on an early evening flight from Chicago.
"We are confident we're going to be able to find a probable cause," Mr. Benson said. It is possible, he said, that the record will point to some conclusion that is not now evident.
A spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association, Bob Flocke, said: "We're going into this without even a single viable theory. For every theory they've got, they've got physical evidence or aerodynamic theory that it didn't happen that way."
The N.T.S.B. has failed to establish a probable cause in only four major crashes in its 28-year history. The most recent was the crash of another Boeing 737, belonging to United Airlines, in Colorado Springs on March 3, 1991.
"There are a lot of comparisons being made between the two accidents, mainly because there's not a lot to explain either one of them," said a USAir spokesman, Paul Turk.
Some people are offering theories, though. A retired Trans World Airline pilot, H. G. Gibson, said the failure that made the USAir flight go out of control may have been related to the one that struck his jet, a Boeing 727 that suddenly rolled right and fell 35,000 feet in less than a minute, in April 1979 near Saginaw, Mich. He is petitioning the safety board for a hearing in that case.
The USAir plane crashed in Aliquippa, Pa., as it was approaching Greater Pittsburgh International Airport in clear weather at about 7 P.M. It took only about 25 seconds to roll to the left and crash.
One person who listened to the cockpit voice recorder said that in that brief period, someone says, "Wow," and then the captain can be heard three or four times telling the first officer, "Hang on there, hang on."
The hearings are of special interest because the crash was USAir's fifth in five years. They are also of intense interest in Pittsburgh, where the airline is a mainstay of the local economy and where there had been no major crashes since 1958.
Boeing, which built the plane, will send witnesses and a videotape explaining the control system. Other witnesses will come from the Federal Aviation Administration, USAir, the pilots' union, and component manufacturers.
The USAir spokesman, Mr. Turk, said the purpose of much of the testimony will be to rule out certain causes. For example, a witness from the F.B.I. will testify that there was no evidence of a bomb.
But much attention will also focus on the system for controlling the rudder, which on the 737 is a single vertical surface above the tail. Last year the F.A.A. issued a directive saying that the power control units for the rudders of all 737's should be replaced by 1999, but Mr. Turk said the unit on the plane that crashed had not been replaced. Even now, he said, only about one-third of the units on USAir's planes have been switched.
"A major issue is the availability of parts," Mr. Turk said.
The F.A.A. ordered the power control units replaced because hydraulic fluid leaks could make the rudder hard to operate or even make it move in the opposite direction from the one the pilot wanted. But the F.A.A. said in its order that the flaw was not known to have caused any in-flight problems in 737's.
In early 1992, the F.A.A. considered ordering the inspection of another part of the power control unit, but decided about a year later that the inspection was unnecessary.
Still, there is anecdotal evidence among pilots that the rudders can act erratically. The Seattle Times reported this month that it had analyzed reports submitted to the F.A.A., which it said the agency had not analyzed, and found 21 power control unit failures reported by United States airlines from 1974 to 1994.
It also found 22 failures of the rudder control unit, a yaw damper. A yaw is a move of the nose to the left or right that differs from the direction of the plane's course; the damper, using gyroscopes to sense sudden changes of direction, sends commands to the rudder faster than a human pilot could, to keep the plane pointed straight.
In the case of the T.W.A. incident in 1979, Mr. Gibson and his co-pilot recovered in part by lowering the landing gear to change the aerodynamics. The plane was moving so fast that all of the landing gear doors were later found to have been damaged by over-stress in the maneuver.
The safety board attributed the incident to pilot error, but Mr. Gibson said the loss of control was consistent with failure of the rudder. He said the 727 and the 737 use some of the same components in the rudder.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); BOE (LSE) (84%); BAB (BRU) (84%); BA (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: USAIR GROUP INC; NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD; BOEING CO U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); BOEING CO (84%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (91%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (91%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: USAIR GROUP INC; NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD; BOEING CO NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (91%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (91%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); ASSOCIATION OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH (PA); UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (95%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; GREATER PITTSBURGH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRLINES (90%); WITNESSES (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (88%); AVIONICS (78%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (78%); EVIDENCE (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); PROBABLE CAUSE (71%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1995



599 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 1995

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: CITY;
Who Should Pay for Parks? Voices From Those in the Field

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Last Thursday, Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern called together 200 of his employees and others interested in parks to celebrate the 61st anniversary of Robert Moses' taking over as the first Parks Commissioner for the entire city.
 Mr. Moses, the present Commissioner recounted, arrived at the Arsenal, the department's fortress-like headquarters in Central Park, in a fleet of chauffeured black Packards, and pushed ahead full speed. With the help of an army of relief workers from Federal programs and architects and planners working in tents around the clock, Mr. Moses built an empire; he added 658 playgrounds, 15 pools, 15 miles of public beaches and 20,000 acres of park land, bring the total of New York City acreage under parks Department control to 15 percent. 
 But since Mr. Moses' departure in 1960, the agency has struggled to maintain its holdings. Gone are the Federal workers, gone is the guaranteed revenue stream from the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, which Mr. Moses also headed.
 Mr. Stern has suggested that to maintain its parks, New York needs to look to other solutions, and last week pushed a proposal by the Central Park Conservancy to set up a special district -- like a Business Improvement District -- in the blocks surrounding that park. But Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani immediately shot down the idea, since it essentially would have involved taxing people who live near the park to pay for its upkeep. Others have criticized the proposal, saying that such a system, if applied citywide, would tend to favor parks in wealthier, more dense areas like Manhattan, while doing little for parks in the other boroughs.
 Mr. Stern's proposal, though, highlighted a larger issue: How is the city to maintain its grand parks system when it lacks the money -- and, some say, the will -- to do so by traditional means?
 Some suggest a special citywide tax that would go solely to the parks system, while others say a park's neighbors should bear the bruden, since they get the greatest benefit. DOUGLAS MARTIN

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry Christensen 3D, chairman, Prospect Park Alliance -- "All of us who try to raise money for the parks are dismayed by the steadily diminishing financial support given to parks by city administrations over the past six years. So I am sympathetic to the motivations of the Central Park Conservancy.
 "The neighbors of a landmark park like Central or Propsect Parks should make substantial contributions. The parks increase the value of those residents' property. But I do view these as voluntary contributions.
 "Also, I think you already have problems raising money for small parks and this could only exacerbate that. We should seriously examine a citywide dedicated levy, whether you call it a tax or user fee, to support all the parks. It would be similar to Federal highway taxes and could not be diverted to other things."; Linda Dividoff, executive director of the Parks Council -- "Some new form of taxation might be necessary to meet the true needs of parks, which our studies indicate are around $300 million. This would require a change to the City Charter as well as approval by the State Legislature if the tax were on anything but real estate. New Yorkers would vote for it. A poll by the Commonwealth Fund last year showed 65 percent of New Yorkers would support doubling park spending."; Daniel A Biederman, executive director of the Bryant Park Improvement District -- "With Bryant Park we had a vision. But all the opposition helped us. We had plenty of time to study what we were going to do.
 "You can take Bryant Park and re-create it in a low-income neighborhood. There are ways to help parks that have no commercial support behind them.
 "If the Central Park idea goes through, and if four or five other major parks follow suite, there will be less pressure on the Parks Commissioner. It might loosen up some funds."; Gordon Davis, lawyer and former Parks Commissioner -- "How do you avoid the problem of the rich taking care of themselves, while the economically disadvantaged areas lack the wherewithal? It's an important discussion. There is no doubt something is required to protect the parks from the cycle of feast and famine. And, in any event, parks never really feast.
 "How do we reproduce the democratic success of Bryant Park? Can you reproduce it in Coney Island? Maybe you can pair a park in a rich district with one in a poor district. New York has to find new ways to finance public spaces. It's important to people all across the city."; Ronnie M. Eldridge, City Council member -- "I have serious reservations about special assessments because I believe it's another form of taxation. It's not just parks: I'm not sure I favor the concept of dedicated revenues in general. I want to protect the libraries and schools and repair the streets too. And what about health care? We're going to be torn in a million places.
"The property tax system needs to be overhauled to raise more revenue. And that has to apply to everybody."; David Fisher, Superintendent of the Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board -- "There's no magic in any of the park financing ideas. You always have to walk a very careful line between prudent financial management and disenfranchisement of people who can't afford to pay.
 "We tried and gave up the idea of special districts 25 years ago. The system became so imbalanced between rich and poor that there were uprisings by communities demanding their rights. We went back to a single citywide park district with a guaranteed revenue stream supporting all our parks.
 "The heaviest users of the parks are people who vote less often. And in parks, squeaky wheels get the grease.
 "I don't know how much money the New York City park system has left. But it's incumbent upon them to distribute it equitably. We must avoid the privatization of public space."; Elizabeth Barlow Rogers, Administrator of Central Park -- "We used to have the greatest park system in the country. It was the one that was emulated in other cities. But here have been these intermittent periods of terrible decline. We can't let that vicious cycle of deterioration start up again.
 "I'm not going to be here forever, and the fund-raising effort is not going to sustain itself forever. We've restored so much of the park now it's difficult to see how we can maintain it at the same level.
 "But this proposal is really for the other parks. The other parks are really continuing to slide."; Peter Rothschild, landscape architect and park designer -- "My fear about the Central Park proposal is that there will be reduced support from the pbulic sector for other parks around the city. A new tax does not guarantee the equitable distribution of the revenues.
 "A special tax may also result in lessened support from the general fund. Parks get a smaller piece of the budget despite the fact the people feel parks are terribly important.
 "I also feel a fundamental problem parks have is that revenue they create and produce do not go to the parks, but just into the funeral fund." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); MAYORS (71%); BEACHES (55%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (53%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1995



600 of 811 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1995 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 1995

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Germans, 5 Years Later: Bitter and Still Divided

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BONN

 BODY:
Judging by what has happened since reunification in 1990, Germany is likely to be more preoccupied with itself over the next five years than intent on exercising the new economic and political might that made its European neighbors so uneasy five years ago.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl rammed unification through the NATO alliance and the European Community in 1989 and 1990, brushing aside fears that Europe would be dominated by a German colossus of 80 million people. 
 For the time being, Mr. Kohl's reassurances about German power have proved depressingly true for his Government. Germany's main problem -- in the fifth year of reunification -- is essentially what it was at the start: How to make one country out of what remain two separate states, one eastern and one western.
Officials close to Mr. Kohl say that the Chancellor was chastened by the apprehension about reunification that was shown by some European leaders, especially President Francois Mitterrand of France, whom Mr. Kohl considers a close friend.
But the unexpected difficulties of reunification have also chastened Mr. Kohl. His Government had to re-introduce a 7.5 percent income tax surcharge this year to help pay for reunification -- a tax already so unpopular that the Government coalition now has a majority of only 10 seats in the 600-member lower house of Parliament.
In effect, Mr. Kohl can govern only with the consent of the Social Democratic opposition, which holds a majority of the seats in the upper house, and the Social Democrats are skeptical about throwing Germany's weight around in the NATO alliance or the United Nations.
Despite a ruling by the German constitutional court last summer allowing German military participation in NATO and United Nations peacekeeping missions, a high-ranking American official said recently, "Germany is not able, at the moment, to play a leading role in reconfiguring the alliance to enable it to respond to the new challenges of the post-cold war era."
The central problem of reunification is clearly demonstrated in the latest official unemployment figures. In what used to be West Germany, the Federal Labor Office reported, the unemployment rate climbed to 8.2 percent last month, and in what used to be East Germany, it rose to 13.5 percent.
What is the national unemployment rate? The Federal Labor Office in Nuremberg does not calculate one. But the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris says that unemployment in all of Germany last year was an average of 9.6 percent, a 45-year high.
"The reason we keep two sets of books is that the two economies are not comparable," said Eberhard Mann, a spokesman for the labor office. "We have a developed industrial economy in the west, and a collapsed Communist economy in the throes of transition in the east."
Despite great strides in eastern Germany, most of the 64 million people in western Germany seem to believe that unification did not really mean much change at all for them.
The Germans who were rejoicing in the streets in 1990 have since become sullen and resentful. Many western Germans -- "Wessis" -- resent having to pay to bring their eastern cousins into the late 20th century. A lot people in eastern Germany -- "Ossis" -- feel patronized.
Life for eastern Germany's 16 million people today bears no resemblance to what it was before 1989, in part because of a net annual transfer of $100 billion from their richer western neighbors, who are paying to help retrain workers, restructure state enterprises and get eastern German wages and benefits up to western levels by next year.
But high wage levels and social costs are the main reason why nearly 3.6 million Germans are now unemployed. About that many are likely to remain so as long as employers' mandatory contributions to health insurance, social security and fringe benefits stay so high that they discourage hiring, German economists and politicians say.
"Everything has changed for the people here in the east, from the social security system to the tax system, the rent system, the school system, everything you can imagine," said Birgit Breuel, who was the head of the Government agency in charge of privatizing the economy in eastern Germany. The agency wrapped up its operations last month with a total debt of $173 billion.
"You probably can't imagine how difficult it is to have everything you were familiar with change overnight," said Jutta Richter, a Leipzig resident. Her daughter, a musician, fled to the west just before the Berlin wall fell five years ago.
Mrs. Richter used to go to East German supermarkets and pick up whatever brand of soap or supermarket special happened to be in stock. Now, she says, she has to figure out which of 10 brands of detergent is the best buy -- things her western cousins had a lifetime to learn.
Her husband, Adi, is a semipro tennis player who is well known throughout eastern Germany. "Since reunification, not once has any western German magazine spelled my name right or correctly identified my team," he said. "I'm convinced it's deliberate -- they just don't want to recognize that we can play tennis over here, too."
He travels occasionally through the posh neighborhoods of western Berlin, but says he feels out of place there.
"The eastern part of the city is gray, run-down, and smells of coal smoke, but it's more like home to me," he said.
The diplomats and scholars who know them best have no doubt that the Germans, both eastern and western, will make unification work. But it will probably take a generation until Germans feel they are truly one people.
In the meantime, in Leipzig, where the people marched peacefully through the streets five years ago chanting, "We are one people," they now tell wry jokes about what Germans say to each other when they meet.
"We are one people," says the easterner. "So are we," says the westerner.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Five years after reunification, many Germans still feel divided by its costs and dislocations. Even the unemployed, like those waiting to collect benefits at this office in Leipzig, are still tallied separately. (Sipa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NUREMBERG, GERMANY (58%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); COLD WAR (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); TRENDS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 1995

 
