

601 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1349 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Start-Ups No Longer Shout From the Rooftops

BYLINE:  By AMY CORTESE 

 BODY:
JONATHAN GUTTENBERG and Spencer Waxman are what you might call serial entrepreneurs, having created their share of Internet companies over the last several years. 
 Their latest venture, LocalAlert, based in New York, opened in December. It sends bulletins to subscribers on the screens of their cellphones. The text may be local news -- like "Eighth Avenue closed due to water main break" or "Major delays at J.F.K., La Guardia" -- or major national headlines. 
 Modest as their idea sounds, just a few years ago venture capitalists would have fought to throw money at it. The founders would have been urged to spend the cash on splashy promotions in order to "get big fast," in the parlance of the day. Mr. Waxman's previous start-up, Flooz, an online payment company of which he was a co-founder, spent some of the $43 million it raised in venture capital financing plus equity to hire Whoopi Goldberg as a pitchwoman. Ms. Goldberg helped to raise the profile of the company, but she couldn't save it; Flooz shut down last summer. 
Mr. Waxman and his partner, both 37, take a much humbler approach with LocalAlert. They have raised no venture capital money. They use no celebrities. They rely on word of mouth. The two have even handed out fliers about the service to harried commuters -- an important potential market -- in busy places like Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan. "We're just a little bit older but a lot wiser," Mr. Waxman said.
Such are the realities of start-up marketing in 2002. Gone are the days of spending huge sums of borrowed money on celebrity endorsers and Super Bowl commercials. In one infamous example, Computer.com, now defunct, spent $3 million of the $5.8 million it had raised in venture financing on a Super Bowl ad in 2000. Seventeen dot-coms spent an estimated $40 million that year on such ads, but E*Trade ran a 30-second commercial that could have spoken for all of them. That ad, which featured a dancing chimpanzee, boasted, "Well, we just wasted two million bucks." 
Since the technology bubble burst, start-ups have had to make do with less. Scores of companies that were once considered promising have been put on life support by their venture capital investors -- operating with a skeleton staff and no marketing, at least until the economy revives. 
The more fortunate ones have meager budgets that must be stretched creatively -- marketing spending is one of the first places where companies cut back. A survey of venture capital-backed technology companies at the end of 2001 by two marketing communications firms, Launch Pad and Blanc & Otus, found that marketing budgets were down by 44 percent from the previous year.
Moreover, investors in start-ups are demanding results and customers before they hand over money. "The priority for start-ups is very clear," said Dave Power, a partner at Charles River Ventures, a venture capital firm in Waltham, Mass. "You're not going to get funding unless you can show established customers and revenues." 
That has led to a 180-degree shift in how young technology companies view marketing. Instead of spending lavishly on mass-market ads to build their brands, start-ups are applying more focused techniques intended to zero in on prospective customers. 
Behind the trend is a growing notion that marketing should deliver more measurable results. Mr. Power calls it "precision marketing."
"Start-ups have no business spending money on ads," he said. "If you can't measure it, don't do it."
Venture capitalists, many of whom once pushed their young charges to get big fast, are now demanding a more pragmatic approach. Christine Comaford Lynch, managing director at Artemis Ventures, a venture fund in Sausalito, Calif., recently organized a seminar, taught by marketing experts, to help her portfolio companies generate sales leads and to get clear returns on marketing investment. "We're not doing anything cute or silly," Ms. Comaford Lynch said. 
Entrepreneurs are getting the message. "We're trying to do more with less money," said Rick Ludlow, senior vice president for sales, marketing and business development at ViewCentral, a management services company in Mountain View, Calif., one of Artemis's portfolio companies. "Brand awareness is taking a back seat to things that will pay off by bringing in more customers." 
That sentiment resonates in high-technology centers across the country. "What people are focusing on is targeting their markets," said Jim Lanzone, vice president for marketing of Web properties at Ask Jeeves, the Internet search site. 
The tactics vary but the goal is the same: home in on your best potential customers and forget the rest. That means direct marketing instead of blanket ads, and online seminars in place of expensive gatherings at fancy hotels. The survey by Launch Pad and Blanc & Otus found that among start-ups selling to businesses, online advertising had fallen by 72 percent, and print advertising by 44 percent. Online direct marketing, by contrast, had quadrupled, while print direct marketing had more than doubled. During this year's Super Bowl, on Feb. 3, commercials for young technology companies will be scarce.
ViewCentral, which develops software for online training, illustrates the trend. For 2002, the company has reduced its print direct mail by 60 percent and print advertising by 50 percent, while tripling the amount of e-mail it sends to prospective customers. It also plans to be host for four Web seminars this year, compared with just one last year. "Two years ago, I would have had three or four times the marketing budget I have now," Mr. Ludlow said. "It would have been, 'Let's go after the world.' Now, with a more limited budget, it's 'Let's build on our success.' " 
Janet Logan, vice president for marketing at Revenio, a two-year-old company that makes customer management software, agreed. "You really have to get creative when you're small and your budget's not really there yet," she said. For Revenio, that has meant no more advertising in major business and trade publications -- some of them no longer around anyhow -- and no more of the expensive seminars that it used to hold at hotels. 
Revenio is now focused on finding its best potential customers, then grabbing their attention. It sent earphone sets to a target group of prospective customers with the promise that they would receive a matching MP3 player if they met with a sales representative. "The key is to get it in front of them," Ms. Logan said. "Maybe their assistant won't throw it away."
Mr. Power, whose firm made an investment in Revenio, said that with a smaller, more focused audience, "you can afford to do something much more compelling."
Knowing customers well is crucial, entrepreneurs say. Laurel Touby, founder and chief executive of Mediabistro.com, a Web site that offers services to media professionals, strives to strike the right tone in e-mail messages to her audience, which she describes as knowledgeable and "oversaturated" with marketing messages. "Subtle marketing is a lot more powerful," Ms. Touby said. "When I write an e-mail, I picture the person I'm writing to in my mind. These are real people on the other end of your mailer."
THE Ask Jeeves search service once put stickers on Dole bananas with questions like "How much vitamin C do you need a day?" The questions could be answered by going to the Web site. That effort, a partnership with Dole, quadrupled questions about food and nutrition on the site. 
Recently, the company has been drawing attention to its consumer site by placing its Jeeves mascot in television shows -- the cartoon butler has shown up in episodes of "The Education of Max Bickford," the CBS comedy, and "Undeclared" on Fox. The company is also participating in events like Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade. 
The marketing budget at Ask Jeeves, which totaled $50 million in 1999, is down about 90 percent, but the creative use of those dollars has kept it as one of the top-ranked Web sites in traffic, as measured by Media Metrix, a research firm.
"We want to spend our money in smart places," Mr. Lanzone said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jonathan Guttenberg, seated at computer, and Spencer Waxman, standing next to him, are partners in LocalAlert, which sends bulletins to subscribers' cellphones. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) Chart: "Marketing Makeover"Technology start-up companies have changed the way they spend their marketing dollars, putting more emphasis on focused methods and cutting back on blanket advertising and other broad strategies. MARKETING BUDGET ALLOCATIONS Broad marketingAdvertising2000: 21.5%2001: 12.7 Public relations2000: 19.82001: 18.8 Trade shows2000: 18.82001: 17.5 Focused marketing Marketing material2000: 9.92001: 14.5 Direct marketing2000: 7.32001: 13.6 Retail store programs2000: 2.92001: 5.7 MARKETING IN THE BUDGET MIX Sales, business developmentAVERAGE BUDGET IN MILLIONS 2000: $2.33AVERAGE BUDGET IN MILLIONS 2001: $3.48PERCENT CHANGE: +49% EngineeringAVERAGE BUDGET IN MILLIONS 2000: 3.11AVERAGE BUDGET IN MILLIONS 2001: 4.52PERCENT CHANGE: +45 MarketingAVERAGE BUDGET IN MILLIONS 2000: 2.24AVERAGE BUDGET IN MILLIONS 2001: 2.76PERCENT CHANGE: +23 MARKETING AS A PERCENTAGE OF SALES 2000: 154%2001: 64 MARKETING AS A PERCENTAGE OF CORPORATE EXPENDITURES 2000: 20%2001: 15 (Source: Launch Pad Marketing)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); CELEBRITIES (74%); SPORTS MARKETING (74%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (72%); WATER MAIN BREAKS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (69%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (69%); PRODUCT ENDORSEMENTS (69%); SIMPLE LIVING (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; VENTURE CAPITAL; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING 

COMPANY: BLANC & OTUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LOCALALERT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (50%)

PERSON: CORTESE, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



602 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Christopher K.McHugh; 
Turner Midcap Growth Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
A HOT product or service can carry a new company for a while, but strong management is the key to continued growth, says Christopher K. McHugh, the lead manager of the $785 million Turner Midcap Growth fund.
 "In the midcap area, it's important not only to have good growth strategies but to have management that can execute effectively," Mr. McHugh said from his office in Berwyn, Pa., near Philadelphia. His fund invests only in mid-capitalization companies, which he generally defines as those with market caps of $1 billion to $8 billion. 
 What he looks for, in a word, is earnings. "Our philosophy is that earnings expectations drive stock prices," he said. Over all, the projected 12-month earnings growth of the portfolio companies averages 32 percent, versus 26 percent for the Russell MidCap Growth index.
The fund returned 12.1 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, compared with 3.6 percent for its peers in the midcap growth group and a 1.7 percent loss for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, according to Morningstar Inc. The portfolio lost 26.1 percent in the 12 months through Thursday, versus a 22.6 percent decline for its group and a 14.2 percent drop in the S.& P. 500, Morningstar said. The fund has been volatile, gaining 125.5 percent in 1999 but losing 8 percent of its value in 2000 and 28.4 percent in 2001.
Aside from his duties at Midcap Growth, Mr. McHugh, 37, is co-manager for the $290 million Turner Small Cap Growth fund, the $11 million New Enterprise fund and the $38 million Technology fund.
Mr. McHugh works with 12 industry analysts to pick the 100 to 130 mid-capitalization stocks in the Midcap Growth portfolio.
Weekly computer screens rank the stocks in the 10 industry sectors represented in the Russell MidCap index on more than 70 variables including earnings and valuation. Over all, the fund aims to replicate the industry allocations in the index. 
He and the analysts scrutinize companies ranked in the top one-third of their sectors. "We're looking for multiple products and services that are offered through as many distribution arms as possible," he said.
Mr. McHugh considers selling shares when forecasts deteriorate for earnings growth rates, for example, or when a company changes its business model or loses market share. Turnover averages more than 200 percent a year, he said, because midcap growth stocks have been particularly volatile; it was more than 300 percent last year.
In June, he began buying shares of King Pharmaceuticals of Bristol, Tenn., paying an average of $31.92; they now trade at $39.80. One of King's biggest revenue producers is Altace, for hypertension; the company expects $400 million in revenue from it this year, up from $280 million in 2001, Mr. McHugh said, partly because of a profitable distribution agreement with American Home Products. King's management has $800 million in cash for acquisitions, which may be used to add the rights to sell drugs made by other companies. Last year, King acquired rights from Bristol-Myers Squibb to market four drugs, including two for hypertension. Wall Street analysts estimate that the company's earnings will grow 23 percent a year, on average, for the next three years.
THE manager has been adding shares of TMP Worldwide, the online recruitment firm in New York that runs Monster.com. He first bought the stock in March 2000; he paid $49.15 a share, on average. It now trades at $41.25. 
The company lost its bid for Hotjobs.com, a competitor, to Yahoo last year, but management was correct not to overpay, Mr. McHugh said, adding, "Earnings growth won't slow down because they didn't make the acquisition." Analysts forecast earnings growth averaging 35 percent a year over three years. 
Monster.com has more than 20 million registered users and more than 100,000 corporate clients, he said, adding that he expects online recruitment to grow 30 percent a year over the next few years as the economy recovers. Wall Street analysts forecast earnings of $1.44 a share in 2002, versus an estimated $1.09 a share in 2001.
In October, he bought shares of GlobespanVirata, a Red Bank, N.J., maker of semiconductors for DSL modems. He paid $11.45 apiece; the stock closed on Friday at $15.39.
The company, formed in December from the merger of Globespan and Virata, had a difficult 2001 because subscriber line growth in the United States fell short of expectations, Mr. McHugh said. But management stayed focused on becoming a worldwide leader in DSL technology, he said, and Globespan was gaining market share in Japan and building markets in China and Europe.
Analysts expect earnings growth to average 35 percent a year over the next three years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Earnings growth is an important consideration for Christopher K. McHugh as he chooses stocks for the Turner Midcap Growth fund. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times) Chart: "Turner Midcap Growth"Category: Midcap growthNet assets: $785 millionInception: October 1996Manager: Christopher K. McHugh since InceptionMinimum purchase: $2,500 ($2,500 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 307%3-year annualized return through Thursday: 12.1%Category average: 3.6% Sector breakdown Health care: 32%Other: 12%Technology: 20%Consumer discretionary: 19%Financial services: 11%Energy: 6% Fees Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: NoneExpense ratio: 1.07% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); BONDS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (75%); MARKET SHARE (68%); RANKINGS (50%); HYPERTENSION (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: TURNER INVESTMENT PARTNERS 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%)

PERSON: MCHUGH, CHRISTOPHER K; GOULD, CAROLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



603 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Consumer Tools for Holding Bill Collectors at Bay

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN 

 BODY:
WHEN Stacey Edwards, an employee of the Florida juvenile justice system, moved out of her apartment complex in Tallahassee last July, she didn't think there would be any problems. After all, she said, she had given what she believed to be proper notice and left the apartment in good condition. But last month, without hearing a word from the apartment managers, she said she began receiving telephone calls from a debt collection agency demanding $815 for unpaid rent and cleaning fees.
 A collector from Professional Debt Mediation in Jacksonville had called her four times at work, she said, asking for payment -- and to be transferred to the personnel office so he could start garnishing her wages. "I was in tears on the telephone," said Ms. Edwards, 34. 
 She found online advice for handling the situation at www.fair-debt-collection.com, run by Rich Rafferty of Wrightstown, N.J. From reading the information at the site, she said, she concluded that some tactics used by the collector may have been in violation of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. She filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission, she said, and though her case is not yet resolved, the dunning calls have stopped.
George Alexander, the operations manager at Professional Debt Mediation, said he was forbidden by law to comment on Ms. Edwards's case.
While statistics are hard to come by, anecdotal evidence suggests that collection efforts by both third-party bill collectors and creditors themselves have been rising in number and sophistication. Some consumers complain of being barraged with calls from multiple collections agencies, while others say they are urged to take on new loans to repay existing debt. Some, like Ms. Edwards, say they are asked for money that is not owed. The F.T.C. says that consumer complaints about bill collection have risen but that it can not provide numbers.
The trend toward more aggressive collections is easily explained: consumer credit in November, the latest month for which data is available, jumped by a record $19.8 billion, to $1.65 trillion. The recession and rising unemployment, meanwhile, have made it harder for many people to pay their debts, leading to high levels of loan delinquencies and personal bankruptcy filings. In Congress, efforts are under way to make it harder for consumers to put off debt collectors by declaring bankruptcy. The House and Senate have approved separate bills, which are in conference committee.
Through the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, enacted in 1996, consumers are protected from third-party debt collectors who engage in unfair, deceptive or abusive practices. Collectors, for example, are not permitted to use obscene or profane language or call before 8 a.m. or after 9 p.m. They are also prohibited from making false statements while trying to collect a debt. 
Consumers can dispute a debt in writing within 30 days of being contacted by a collector, and collectors may not try to collect the debt during that time until they provide documentation of what is owed.
In Ms. Edwards's case, she discovered that the collector could not threaten to garnish her wages without first obtaining a court judgment. She also learned that she could stop the calls at work.
"If you say, 'I am not allowed to receive calls or my boss won't let me take personal calls,' then they must stop communications at work," said Thomas Kane, director of the F.T.C.'s Debt Collection Education and Enforcement Program.
Mr. Kane also noted that the law provides a "shut up" provision, which Ms. Edwards ultimately used.
"It permits consumers to write a letter to third-party collectors saying, 'Do not communicate with me about this debt,' " Mr. Kane said. "The collector may communicate one more time to say what they're going to do, but may not try to collect that debt anymore," although it could take other legal action. A summary of the law can be found at www.ftc.gov/bcp/conline/pubs /credit/fdc.htm.
Though the debt-collection law offers a wide range of protection from third-party collectors, it does not cover in-house collectors of lenders like banks and credit card companies. A section of the Federal Trade Commission Act, however, prohibits unfair or deceptive practices by lenders, which could extend to collections.
Jody and Bernard Walters of Minneapolis said they had some problems recently with the MBNA Corporation after running up a $12,000 bill on their MasterCard, which carried a 17.99 percent interest rate, and falling behind on payments.
They said MBNA started turning up the heat in the fall of last year by insisting that they make a minimum payment of $1,000 by December, which they contended they could not afford. "They kept calling and calling," said Mrs. Walters, 51, a homemaker. 
Mr. Walters, 49, a barber, said he had missed weeks of work because of hip replacement operations and prostate surgery.
MBNA organized a conference call, the couple said, involving them and representatives of the bank and Household International, a consumer credit company. The couple said the goal was to persuade them to take on another home mortgage to repay the credit card bill. They said they already had two mortgages on their home, including a low-interest home improvement loan from the Minnesota Housing Financing Agency. 
AFTER analyzing Household's offer, which would have included closing costs of $600 to $800, the couple rejected it. "It would have been a wonderful deal for them, but not a good deal for us," Mrs. Walters said.
She then turned to the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now. The organization (www.acorn.org) has helped low- and middle-income people deal with questionable lending and collection practices. Acorn advisers helped the couple negotiate a settlement with MBNA in which the interest rate was reduced to 10 percent and payments were set at $136 for 12 months; terms would then be renegotiated.
Brian Dalphon, a spokesman for MBNA, says his company occasionally tries to arrange second mortgages for certain borrowers, and he confirmed that that was the case with the Walters. "We do it when it puts the customer in a better position," he said. "It helps them get back on their feet," Household International declined to comment.
Mr. Kane of the F.T.C. said it was unclear whether the tactic used in this case violated any law. 
Lisa Donner, director of Acorn's Financial Justice Center in Brooklyn, said it was difficult to prove fraud or deception by direct lenders because each case was so complex. But she said it was not uncommon for creditors to push for additional loans. "Pressurized lending is rampant, and current law hasn't proven adequate to protect people," she said.
The climb in consumer credit has been accompanied by increased business for bill collectors. Debt collection has grown into a $13 billion industry, according to a report last fall by the Kaulkin Ginsberg Company in Bethesda, Md., and its online affiliate CollectionIndustry.com. From 1998 to 2000, collections rose 9 percent, the report said.
For their part, many debt collectors say that they strive to be fair and professional but that the rising levels of debt have made their work more difficult.
"We're seeing more defaults both in the early and late stages," said Jerry Kaufman, vice chairman of Nationwide Credit Inc., a collection agency based in Kennesaw, Ga.
Collectors have also had a harder time collecting. The average recovery rate was 11 percent in 2000, compared with 14 percent in 1998 and 17 percent in 1996, according to ACA International, a trade group for collection agencies.
Mr. Kaufman, who is also a spokesman for the group, said a goal among collection agencies is to collect before a debtor declares bankruptcy. 
ACA says it has a strict code of ethics and tries to educate its members about the law through regular classes and seminars. "We are not the enemy," Mr. Kaufman said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stacey Edwards, center, celebrating her birthday with her fiance, Dubravko Kakarigi, and her mother, Carolyn Gamble. Ms. Edwards filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission to stop what she said were aggressive calls from a bill collector. (Bruce Brewer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CREDIT COLLECTIONS (92%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT COUNSELING (90%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (83%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); APPROVALS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TRENDS (70%); RECESSION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (52%) CREDIT; COLLECTION AGENCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (82%)

PERSON: HOLSTEIN, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (90%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



604 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
A New Realism May Set the Corporate Mood

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
WITH only a few weeks under our belts in 2002, it is too soon to tell what the year's tone will be, either in the stock market or in corporate America. But with reports last week from two bellwether companies -- I.B.M. and Microsoft -- a pattern may be emerging for the way the world will work going forward.
Both companies reported desultory results, and the stock market took note. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 1 percent of its value on Friday, and the Nasdaq fell 2.79 percent. All the major indexes are down for the year. 
 Although I.B.M. managed to beat analysts' per-share earnings estimates by the usual penny, the company's revenue for 2001 was 3 percent below the total a year-earlier. In addition, hardware revenue plummeted by 12 percent, while sales in the company's services business, its primary profit center, grew by only 3 percent. Normally upbeat and swaggering on such earnings calls, Louis V. Gerstner Jr., I.B.M.'s chairman, was solemn. "Business conditions remain difficult as we enter the new year," he said. 
 Across the country at Microsoft, which reported its second-quarter results on Thursday, net income fell 26 percent during the first six months of its fiscal year versus the period in 2001. According to the company, demand for personal computers was disappointing. "We are concerned about the health of the global economy and have yet to see a recovery in many of the world's largest markets," said John G. Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer. Even after the economy begins to stir, it will not boom, Mr. Connors speculated.
Neither report was surprising; anyone willing to face reality in recent months has recognized that sales of technology gear were dismal. There are no new must-have products driving consumers into electronics stores, and the economic malaise means that most companies and individuals are happy to hang onto their old machines.
But the gloomy tunes being sung by these two technology executives are decidedly different from the songs of last year. In 2001, managements of technology companies were relentlessly upbeat; every month, it seemed, another executive would shine his crystal ball and profess to see a rebound around the corner. And, of course, all accepted the conventional wisdom that the aggressive rate cutting by the Federal Reserve would guarantee higher stock prices in the second half of 2001.
So the sober talk this year is, in a counterintuitive way, refreshing to any investors who prefer to have their company reports straight rather than sugar-coated. Indeed, it is good news that corporate executives are willing to discuss the bad news that is out there. It may be, in fact, bullish for stocks that some corporate chiefs can acknowledge to shareholders that they are not residents of La-La Land anymore. 
AOL Time Warner was the first company to take this new approach to public relations. At the turn of the year, it advised investors to lower their growth expectations. I.B.M. and Microsoft make three.
Not all executives have shut down their spin factories. John T. Chambers, the chairman of Cisco Systems, still talks of 30 percent growth. And Dell Computer made upbeat statements late Friday about its business. But Scott G. McNealy at Sun Microsystems has been quiet, as have folks at EMC.
Maybe executives are learning that telling the truth about weak company prospects is not such a bad thing. Maybe it is an Enron effect. As that mess has shown, telling lies and having to produce results to meet them can have disastrous consequences.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Big Blues" shows share prices for I.B.M. since October 2001. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (77%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (69%); GLOBALIZATION (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%) SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



605 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2819 words

HEADLINE: Parched, Big Steel Goes to Its Washington Well 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
AS one industry after another troops to Washington to ask for handouts, Thomas J. Usher, the chief executive of the U.S. Steel Corporation, has an offer he feels the Bush administration cannot refuse.
 He wants $12 billion in government aid to pay for employee retirement benefits that are now the obligation of the steel industry. After that, he wants antitrust clearance to allow U.S. Steel to acquire a raft of steel makers, for practically no cash, giving his company a near monopoly among old-line steel makers. 
 There's more. He wants the government to impose tariffs on imported steel of up to 40 percent, to protect U.S. Steel and others -- tariffs that could raise the price of every refrigerator and automobile sold in America and that could threaten thousands of jobs in steel-using companies. 
Finally, he wants it done soon -- in the next few months, he says -- to prevent the domestic steel industry from collapsing. 
"Although my proposal is ugly," said Mr. Usher, who has been rallying the industry and its unions behind his plan, "it's not as ugly as liquidating some of these steel companies and putting 20,000 or 60,000 steelworkers and their families on the street without health care or pension plans."
With some, but not all, of the domestic steel industry reeling, Mr. Usher and platoons of steel executives and union officials have been meeting with the White House to press their case. Aspects of his proposal are so audacious that even some within his industry -- mainly the Nucor Corporation, a mini-mill steel maker -- have taken out newspaper advertisements denouncing some elements as "corporate welfare." Still, Mr. Usher has been given an open door at the highest levels of the Bush administration, which has been surprisingly sympathetic to the pleas of Big Steel.
"Inside the administration, this issue has gotten more high-level attention from the cabinet than any other on the economic front," said Grant D. Aldonas, under secretary of commerce for international trade. "There's lots of intense review of the numbers the industry has put forward, and we are trying to get a bottom-line number on what the cost to the taxpayer would be."
THE "can't refuse" aspect of the plan is the political cost that goes with not backing it. While the Bush administration has not said whether it will support the plan, Mr. Usher and his fellow executives, as well as leaders of the politically powerful steelworkers union, paint a bleak picture of what refusal would mean. Particularly vivid is the specter of another round of industry bankruptcies and the shuttering of steel mills. That would throw thousands of angry steelworkers into the streets in crucial battleground states just as the Republicans are seeking more Congressional seats in midterm elections. 
"The cost to the administration of doing nothing has bad politics associated with it," said Terry Straub, a U.S. Steel lobbyist. "You would have lots of bankruptcies in steel states, and the politics of that speaks for itself. The Republicans see opportunity in states that traditionally do not have strong Republican support." 
William Klinefelter, a lobbyist for the United Steelworkers of America, concurred: "If things work out, the president can go back to those states and say, 'This is what I did.' "
Big Steel believes that it has a friend in President Bush. The companies were heartened by Mr. Bush's decision to spend his Labor Day at a steelworkers picnic near Pittsburgh and to see Vice President Dick Cheney campaigning in 2000 at Weirton Steel in West Virginia.
Even more important has been the administration's effort to enact some of the broadest restrictions on foreign-made steel in over a decade. Within the next month, Mr. Bush is widely expected to impose large duties or quotas on imported steel, something that the Clinton administration had steadily resisted.
"Frankly, these guys have been a lot easier to deal with than the Clinton White House," one steel industry lobbyist said. "For four years, we got a lot of lip service, but not action." 
To prevail in Washington, U.S. Steel is leaving nothing to chance. The company has doubled its lobbying budget, spending $2.7 million in the first six months of 2001, the most recent figures available, compared with $2.3 million for all of 2000. Its lobbying team includes Washington heavyweights like Edward Gillespie, a former official in the Bush Commerce Department and a top Republican strategist, and former Representative Vin Weber, a Republican from Minnesota. The company recently hired Joe Lockhart, the former Clinton press secretary, as its spokesman.
In the last week, some of this fancy footwork has paid off within the industry. On Tuesday, U.S. Steel announced that it had gained the support of Nucor, which had been leading the opposition among steel mini-mills, the newer and more technologically advanced rivals of old-line steel makers. With the administration hinting that it would like to see the steel industry united if it were to push for import tariffs, Nucor agreed to back parts of Mr. Usher's plan, including industry consolidation. 
While embracing tariffs, Nucor made it clear that it still disapproved of some of Mr. Usher's more far-reaching pleas, especially for billions of federal dollars to help pay for generous benefit packages for retired steelworkers.
"Our position has not changed," said Dan DiMicco, the chief executive of Nucor. "I want to make it clear that we are very opposed to having the American taxpayer and the federal government bail out the industry on these premium benefit packages that are not available to the average American taxpayer who would be be asked to foot the bill."
Under Mr. Usher's plan, up to five existing steel makers would be acquired by U.S. Steel, currently the nation's largest steel company. The consolidation would allow U.S. Steel to become much closer in size to its two biggest rivals, Usinor of Europe and Nippon Sumitomo of Japan, which are now about four times as big. Among those to be acquired would be Bethlehem Steel, Wheeling-Pittsburgh, National Steel and, possibly, Weirton Steel -- all either close to bankruptcy or in it.
But there is one big "if" to the plan -- whether the government picks up the "legacy costs," or the benefit packages for retired steelworkers that are part of the union contracts at the companies to be acquired. 
Written in much better times, these contracts provide a rich array of benefits to retirees, far superior to most pension and health plans. To date, the liability for these costs has prevented any potential buyers from taking over these troubled steel companies. Mr. Usher and his colleagues say that acquiring one of them would be like buying a $100,000 house with a $500,000 mortgage.
For that reason, no one has been stepping up to buy failing steel mills. As a result, there have been 29 bankruptcies in the last few years and at least a dozen liquidations. Most recently, the LTV Corporation, after two trips through bankruptcy, decided to liquidate, leaving 70,000 employees and retirees without the full array of health care and pension benefits they had expected.
Making matters worse are the demographics of the steel industry, which is burdened by a small work force relative to the number of retirees. There are around 150,000 workers and about 600,000 retirees, according to a study by Andersen Value Solutions, a consulting firm in Washington. Retiree dependents, who also receive benefits, add untold thousands more to the retiree benefit pool. Within the industry, the current rule of thumb is that there is one active worker for every five retirees.
"The ticking time bomb is the retirees," Mr. Usher said. "With any company we bought, it would be impossible to take on the health care and pension costs for the retirees."
FOR the moment, it is not clear exactly what costs Mr. Usher wants to shift to the government. Last week, U.S. Steel confirmed that it was sticking to its price tag of $10 billion to $12 billion. But many in the steel industry say the proposal may be scaled back to cover a smaller array of health care benefits and fewer workers.
Whatever form Mr. Usher's proposal takes, the numbers involvedare enormous. But so is the problem. At Bethlehem Steel alone, Mr. Usher's prime takeover target, 13,000 active employees support 75,000 retirees. The bill for Bethlehem's unfunded pension liability comes to $2 billion, and unfunded health care costs are $3 billion. The company's stock is trading at around 50 cents.
"We can't give this company away," said Steve Miller, the new chief executive of Bethlehem Steel, in an interview. Mr. Miller, a turnaround specialist and a top executive at the Chrysler Corporation when it received a federal loan guarantee in 1979, said, "Our legacy costs are greater than the value of our company."
Mr. Usher contends that whatever the cost, it is preferable to other costs that would occur -- lost wages, human suffering and a greater demand for government benefits -- if companies in bankruptcy were liquidated and their assets sold piecemeal. "The option of doing nothing is not cost-free to the government," he said. "The government is already on the hook for a lot of the social costs."
Rather than experience the disruptions and chaos that could occur with liquidation, Mr. Usher wants the highly fragmented steel industry to consolidate in a more orderly way. 
YET others say a free-market alternative exists, although one less attractive to Mr. Usher's company. That would be to allow bankrupt steel mills that are unable to reorganize to liquidate. With their labor contracts broken, these companies would be freed of their legacy costs, allowing buyers to step in.
Many of these steel assets would be attractive to buyers both domestic and foreign. But selling these assets to the highest bidder would mean that U.S. Steel, rather than getting them for practically no cash outlay, would have to compete with other buyers.
"You would have a bidding war for some of the good facilities," said William Barringer, a Washington lawyer who represents foreign steel makers. "Buyers would end up paying some real money. I think this is a pre-emptive strike by U.S. Steel to get this package together on its own terms."
In Washington, the main question facing Mr. Usher's plan is this: Why should the government spend billions of dollars to aid retired steelworkers, many of whom are still in their 50's, especially when millions of other workers have no health or pension benefits at all? The question is being posed as Congress is facing the costly prospect of adding a prescription drug program to Medicare for the elderly -- a benefit that steelworkers already enjoy.
"It would be a dangerous precedent to have the government just bail out these guys," said Aldo Mazzaferro, a steel industry analyst at Goldman, Sachs. "But it may happen. It would open up a whole new territory in government subsidy. Giving money to failing companies is not a solution."
Moreover, the steelworkers' health care plan, the most costly element of Mr. Usher's proposal, is far richer than anything most Americans have. At many steel mills, there are no deductibles and few co-payments, 100 percent coverage at the worker's doctor of choice, and dental, vision and prescription drug plans. One Bush administration official called it "better health care than I had when I was a partner in a law firm earning $750,000 a year." 
Michael F. Gambardella, a steel industry analyst at J.P. Morgan Chase, said, "The industry has a ridiculously rich benefits package compared to every other industry out there."
For that reason, Thomas A. Danjczek, president of the Steel Manufacturers Association, which represents mini-mills, raised doubts. "Will Congress go along with paying for these health care benefits? I think not," he said. "Do you think the AARP will go along with it? I think not." He was referring to the lobbying group for senior citizens. 
On the health care point, the steel union is particularly sensitive. "We hear this argument that no one else gets these benefits, so why should steelworkers?" said Mr. Klinefelter, the union lobbyist. "Well, government employees get retirement health care. If it's good enough for them, why isn't it good enough for steelworkers?"
Steel companies agreed to such sweet benefits without setting enough money aside to pay for them -- making some people ask why they should be protected from the consequences of their own irresponsibility.
"The key thing is to offload legacy costs that the industry unwisely agreed to years ago," said Robert Crandall, a steel industry expert at the Brookings Institution, a research group in Washington. "If employers agree to all kinds of wage agreements that they cannot afford, you have huge moral hazard problems. What this industry did was agree to some unwise labor bargains, knowing full well that the executives wouldn't be around to pick up the pieces. 
"But what is amazing is their clout," Mr. Crandall added. "Surely the dot-coms have laid off far more people than steel companies even employ and yet no one is talking about protection for failing dot-coms."
Should Mr. Usher prevail, this aid would be the latest in a long list of government efforts to aid the steel industry -- to little avail. These have included "Buy America" programs for state and federal construction projects, exemptions or delays in environmental regulations, a variety of special tax breaks and abatements as well as generous government research grants.
In addition, the steel industry is the major beneficiary of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation -- a government-sponsored insurance program that is financed by corporate pension plans. Some 29.3 percent of all claims, over $1.9 billion, have been paid to steelworkers, more than any other industry, since the program started in 1975. The pension corporation, which has a surplus of $9.7 billion, covers costs when pension plans run short of money. Right now, it expects $2.1 billion in claims from LTV steelworkers and may get another $2 billion if Bethlehem Steel is liquidated. 
Moreover, because of recent legislation championed by Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, the steel industry is eligible for $1 billion in federal loan guarantees. In the loan program's first year, however, only one loan was approved, for $110 million, to Geneva Steel. All other applicants were rejected because they had no prospects for repaying the loans, according to the plan's administrator.
To many industry analysts, the real problem facing old-line steel makers is not cheaper imports or insufficient federal support. Rather, it is the companies' failed effort to compete with steel mini-mills, which have been steadily gaining market share with a largely nonunion work force and more advanced steel-making technology. Mini-mills turn scrap metal into steel by using modern electric-arc furnaces, while steel mills use large blast furnaces and basic-oxygen furnaces to make steel from iron ore and other raw materials, a technology stretching back a century.
WHILE domestic steel output has remained about the same since the late 1970's -- around 100 million finished tons a year -- a different mix of companies makes it. Twenty-five years ago, old-line or "integrated" steel makers had a market share of about 90 percent. Their output has fallen by half, while their production costs remain among the highest in the world. Mini-mills have grown in that time from 10 million tons of output annually to around 50 million and now account for about half the domestic market.
One mini-mill company alone, Nucor, produces almost as much steel as U.S. Steel, which traces its roots to Andrew Carnegie. Nucor's market capitalization of $4.1 billion is greater than that of the integrated companies combined, at $3.2 billion. With a largely nonunion work force, Nucor has labor costs of around $45 per ton of finished steel, far lower than the $130 to $140 a ton at the integrated mills, according to statistics complied by Goldman, Sachs.
Even more striking are the retiree benefit costs. At Bethlehem Steel, retiree health care costs come to $26.40 per ton of steel; at Nucor, they are 27 cents a ton.
Largely as a result of this, steel costs $481 a ton to produce at old-line steel makers, compared with $376 at mini-mills, according to statistics compiled by Mr. Crandall of Brookings. These lower costs make it far easier for mini-mills to turn a profit.
Still, the old-line mills have something the mini-mills do not: political influence. As the debate over Mr. Usher's proposal heats up in Washington, the steelworkers union has its battle plan, which includes an e-mail and letter-writing campaign, telephone banks in crucial Congressional districts and lobbying visits by steelworkers to Congressional offices. 
Mr. Klinefelter, the union lobbyist, said, "we will be pulling out all the stops."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas J. Usher of U.S. Steel, at its mill in Braddock, Pa., wants federal help -- soon. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Joe Lockhart, who was press secretary during the Clinton administration, has been hired by U.S. Steel as its spokesman. (Reuters)(pg. 7); Bethlehem Steel's 13,000 active employees, like Jordy Binetti, above, and Shelly Miller, top, in Sparrows Point, Md., support 75,000 retirees. Steve Miller, left, the chief executive, says "legacy costs" are a huge burden. (Photographs, top and above, by Marty Katz for The New York Times); (William Thomas Cain for The New York Times)(pg. 7) Chart: "Think Globally, Act Locally"U.S. Steel says its proposed purchase of domestic competitors should not be viewed as a move toward a monopoly, but as a way to compete against large foreign steel makers. RAW STEEL PRODUCTION IN 2000 Usinor France, Luxembourg and Spain: 54 million net tonsNippon Sumitomo Japan: 44NKK Kawasaki Japan: 32Posco Korea: 31Corus Britain and the Netherlands: 22ThyssenKrupp Germany: 20 STEEL PRODUCTION IN 2000 FOR POSSIBLE COMBINED COMPANY Wheeling-Pittsburgh: 2Weirton: 3Bethlehem: 11National: 6U.S. Steel: 12 (Source: International Iron and Steel Institute via Bethlehem Steel)(pg. 7) Chart: "Metal Fatigue"The growing burden of retired employees, increasing pressure from abroad and falling steel prices spell trouble for the traditonal American steel companies. Graph shows employees and retirees of Bethlehem Steel and U.S. Steel, used as a proxy for the traditional United States steel industry (in thousands) from 1960-2000. Graph shows composite steel prices in 2001 dollars (per net ton) since 1995. Graph shows imports of steel mill products (million net tons) since 1995. (Sources: Bethlehem Steel; U.S. Steel; American Iron and Steel Institute and Purchasing Magazine via United Steelworkers of America)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (93%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (76%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (50%) STEEL AND IRON; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; HEALTH INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (93%); NUCOR CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); AMERICAN IRON & STEEL INSTITUTE (59%); UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (59%) US STEEL CORP 

TICKER: X (NYSE) (93%); NUE (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (93%); NAICS331513 STEEL FOUNDRIES (EXCEPT INVESTMENT) (91%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (91%) SIC3312 STEEL WORKS; 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); SPAIN (79%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



606 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Juggling Strikeouts and Home Runs

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN

 BODY:
"When you play this game 10 years, go to bat 7,000 times and get 2,000 hits, you know what that means? That you've gone 0 for 5,000." Reggie Jackson, 1974
 GARRETT R. VAN WAGONER, the technology stock specialist who manages the Van Wagoner Emerging Growth fund, is not a singles hitter. Since he started his own mutual funds in 1996, he has been swinging for the fences. He's hit a few tape-measure jobs. But like most home run hitters, he also has a lot of strikeouts. 
 Now some investors are crying foul.
With holdings that include Embarcadero Technology, Interwoven Inc. and Veritas Software, the Emerging Growth fund was the top-performing domestic diversified stock fund in the fourth quarter of 2001, with a gain of 87.83 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. That said, the spurt did not prevent the fund from being one of the biggest losers for the year -- down 59.70 percent. At the end of October, the fund had $380 million in assets under management. 
"He takes a lot of risks," said Christopher Traulsen, a senior analyst at Morningstar, which gives the fund one star, its lowest rating. 
Private placements -- investments in companies whose shares are not publicly traded -- are one risk Mr. Van Wagoner takes. Class-action lawsuits filed in Federal District Courts in Delaware and Wisconsin accuse Mr. Van Wagoner of misleading investors about these investments. 
On the advice of his lawyers, Mr. Van Wagoner declined to be interviewed for this article. But the prospectus for the Emerging Growth fund warns shareholders about some dangers involved in the private placements, saying the fund "may have difficulty accurately pricing them."
"The fund may not be able to sell these securities at the prices at which it has valued them for purposes of calculating its net asset value without experiencing delays or additional costs, if at all," it adds.
"In general," the prospectus says, "this fund is likely to be significantly more volatile than the S.& P. 500 index." In keeping with Securities and Exchange Commission rules, less than 15 percent of the fund's assets are held in private placements.
Mr. Van Wagoner made a name for himself in the mid-1990's running the Govett Smaller Companies fund, which had returns of 59 percent in 1993, 29 percent in 1994 and 69 percent in 1995.
In 1999, when technology and Internet stocks flew to the moon, Mr. Van Wagoner outpaced virtually everyone -- Emerging Growth rose more than 291 percent. The fund fell 20.9 percent in 2000 -- less than the Nasdaq composite index, but worse than four-fifths of similar funds, according to Morningstar. 
Mr. Van Wagoner did not buy splashy advertisements after his strong performance in 1999, and has shown up at conferences after down years, said Russell Kinnel, head of fund analysis at Morningstar. "The fund doesn't really advertise at all, and when things are going badly they are just as willing to go out and explain themselves as when things are good," he said. "They don't hype themselves much." 
"They are decent funds for what they do," he added. "But you would be nuts to put a large amount of money in his funds." 
Even with the fund's decline in 2000 and the implosion of technology stocks, the value of 23 of the fund's holdings -- all of them private placements -- did not change at all. These included Impresse Inc., an electronic-commerce printing company, MaMa Media, a children's Web site company, and Our House Inc., an electronics retailer. 
But some investors were more than a little chagrined when they found that in mid-2001 Van Wagoner had written down the value of five of those investments to zero. Fourteen other stocks were marked down to as little as 25 percent of their purchase price. As of June 30, 2001, three more were still carried at their original purchase price, according to the fund's filings. 
The valuations are reviewed by the firm's audit staff and a three-member board of directors. An article last month in The Wall Street Journal said that one board seat has been vacant since mid-2000. Mr. Van Wagoner and one outside director have been doing the reviews. 
Peter Kris, a spokesman for Van Wagoner Capital Management in San Francisco, which runs the Van Wagoner mutual funds, said in response to written questions that "the current board size fulfills the requirements of the S.E.C."
"We are actively looking for qualified people to join the board," he added. 
But Guri Ademi, a lawyer at Ademi & O'Reilly, a firm in Cudahy, Wis., that represents Van Wagoner shareholders in the lawsuit, said, "We think those markdowns were not accurately done." 
"What was lacking here was objective third-party, non-insider directors," he said. Mr. Ademi said some investors who had joined the lawsuit were still Van Wagoner shareholders; others have liquidated their holdings. 
The suits are open to investors in the Emerging Growth fund between April 28, 2000, and June 30, 2001. They contend that by not trying to revalue the private holdings regularly to reflect market values, Van Wagoner misled investors, who bought overpriced shares. 
Pricing privately held investments "has been a problem forever," said Kurt Brouwer, a partner in Brouwer & Janachowski, an investment advisory planning firm that specializes in mutual funds and is based in Tiberon, Calif. "It has never been very clear what you should or should not do," he said.
Most mutual funds avoid private placements "because of the complications of pricing," said Geoff Bobroff, a mutual fund consultant based in East Greenwich, R.I.
Robert E. Turner, chairman and chief investment officer of Turner Investment Partners, which specializes in technology stocks and has $10 billion under management, agreed with this assessment. "More often than not, owning private placements is more trouble than it is worth," he said.
MR. TRAULSEN from Morningstar has talked to Van Wagoner about the valuation issue. "They said they carried it at their cost unless there is a substantial deterioration in the business, another round of financing or when the company goes public, when they can get a market price," he said. 
Revaluing private companies is extremely difficult, said Roger McNamee, a fund manager during the early 1990's who is now a partner at Integrated Capital Partners, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm. "It is fraught with challenges, because there are conflicting things going on."
Private investors are expected to support a company in which they hold an interest, he said. "If the company is effectively executing its business plan, you are expected to support them," he said. "The code of ethics says that is so even if market conditions change. That is what happened a lot over the last 18 months." 
The lesson, Mr. McNamee said, "is there are really good reasons why mutual funds don't own private partnerships."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Garrett Van Wagoner, a fund manager in San Francisco, likes to take risks. That doesn't always endear him to some investors. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) Chart: "More Risk, Less Reward"Van Wagoner mutual funds have not been steady performers. In 2001, two of them -- Post Venture and Emerging Growth -- were among the best for the fourth quarter and worst for the full year. Five years after their inception, the volatility is not yielding market-beating returns. Figures are as of Thursday. Graph shows VAN WAGONER POST VENTURE, VAN WAGONER EMERGING GROWTH, and S.& P. 500 INDEX from 1997-2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); LAWYERS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); CLASS ACTIONS (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); INTERWOVEN INC (70%); SYMANTEC CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: VAN WAGONER EMERGING GROWTH 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); SYMC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%)

PERSON: VAN WAGONER, GARRETT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



607 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Reporter's Notebook; 
A Diplomatic Star With a Singular Style

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 19 

 BODY:
Colin L. Powell is not the first secretary of state with the name recognition of a rock star. Henry A. Kissinger claimed that honor more than 25 years ago, and even as Secretary Powell hopped from Pakistan to India this week in an effort to avert war between nuclear rivals, the man once known as Henry the K was still at it, visiting the region with a private delegation of national security experts and meeting with the same high-level officials.
 But Colin the P is an altogether different kind of creature. While Mr. Kissinger set the United States Embassy staff in New Delhi abuzz with a shopping expedition at a bazaar this week, Secretary Powell is all business, with no taste for dramatics, dinners, ceremonies or wasted motion. He sticks to his schedule and to a script that he is careful to control even while seeming spontaneous. 
 To be sure, Secretary Powell is greeted everywhere like the international celebrity he has been for a decade. On a daylong visit to Kabul, Afghanistan, he was hailed by that country's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, as "a distinguished world personality, a very top soldier and top diplomat and an excellent human being." American marines there swarmed him for autographs. In Nepal, he was swathed with silk Buddhist scarves and greeted by small orphan girls in native costumes bearing garlands of red and orange flowers.
But Secretary Powell never seems to let it go to his head. He has sometimes described himself as having nothing to prove, and in myriad ways he proves it. After flying in and out of Kabul in a swift Army Chinook helicopter barely clearing the treetops on Thursday, he talked knowledgeably about the skills of their pilots, based in Fort Campbell, Ky., and when others in his traveling party peered out the window of a C-17 transport plane wondering which kind of jet fighters were flanking the wings, he recognized them immediately as F-14 Tomcats.

Wasting No Time
Unlike his predecessor, Madeleine K. Albright, who seemed to log endless diplomatic mileage, Secretary Powell likes to limit his travel, and he has made every minute count on a weeklong trip around the world that ends here with an international conference on Afghan reconstruction on Monday. "I've discovered that to talk to people far away, you don't always have to be there," he told reporters aboard his plane on the way to Pakistan. "You can use the phone."
As he left India after barely more than 18 hours on the ground, the Indian foreign minister, Jaswant Singh, expressed regret that the visit was not longer, but allowed, "He and I belong to a trade where leisure is absent," and Secretary Powell often seems determined to prove the point.
In Katmandu, Nepal, this morning, Secretary Powell took a brisk walk around the Boudhanath, one of the largest Buddhist stupas, or shrines, in the world and the holiest Buddhist shrine outside Tibet. He spent no more than 15 minutes taking in the stupendous brick and earthen structure with its whirling prayer wheels and colorful banners before heading to a meeting with Nepalese military officials who have been contending with a violent Maoist insurgency that has caused 2,300 deaths since 1995. 
That meeting ran over schedule.

Giving Counsel
When a Nepalese radio reporter asked him a convoluted question on Friday about the roots of the Maoist violence, and whether Nepal might "greatly need some wonderful and good package programs towards alleviation of poverty and the creating plenty of job opportunities," Secretary Powell replied simply, "Yes."
Then he went on to say that he had talked with Nepalese officials "in very candid terms" about the "problem of disaffected young people who can't find jobs who believe there is no hope or future for them and are attracted to these kinds of radical kinds of causes."
He added: "You have to fight the terrorist activity, you have to fight the terrorist, but at the same time you must commit your nation and your government to good governance and to ending corruption, to finding ways to move the economy forward, diversifying the economy, taking advantage of the natural resources you have, such as the potential that exists in this country with respect to hydroelectric opportunities."

A Commanding Figure
Whether padding down the aisle of his customized Air Force Boeing 757 in gold-toed socks and a warm-up suit or cutting a more formal figure in a dark blue suit and a crisp white shirt, Secretary Powell never has a hair out of place. He is commanding without being forbidding. At the end of a late-night refueling stop in Shannon, Ireland, on the way to Pakistan, he summoned his traveling party from a round of Irish coffees and stout with a call of "Allons, mes enfants!" If he wants to avoid answering a question, he simply says something like, "Secrets of all hearts will be revealed in due course later."
Though his aides are quick to correct reporters who refer to him as "general," the secretary's military presence is infectious. Greeting Secretary Powell at the newly re-established American Embassy in Kabul on Thursday, the charge d'affaires, Ryan Crocker, declared, "The men and women of this mission are extremely proud to be your forward element."
Secretary Powell makes it clear that he does not miss the military life and is disinclined to play armchair general. But he is also clearly confident of his expertise in that field, and his unchallenged rank in the Bush administration and in the field of public opinion. When he noticed that the State Department had issued five-sided identification badges to reporters traveling with him, he was quick to demand in mock horror: "Why is your secretary-of-state pass in the form of a pentagon?"
When someone cracked that Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld might be hiding aboard, Secretary Powell just smiled and said, "He's everywhere."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at a Buddhist temple in Nepal. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (71%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (71%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (70%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); RELIGION (65%); HELICOPTERS (64%); ORPHANS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (51%) PURDUM, TODD S; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); INDIA (94%); NEPAL (94%); PAKISTAN (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



608 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Argentina And the U.S. Grow Apart Over a Crisis 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
When Eduardo Duhalde became Argentina's president at the start of the month and ended a decade-long policy of linking the peso to the dollar, it was not just the economic model here that changed. Foreign policy is also being refashioned, with a discernible distancing from the United States. 
 This reorientation "goes far beyond the cosmetic and rhetorical changes" that are to be expected any time a new government takes power, said Carlos Escude, the author of several books about Argentine foreign policy and a former government adviser. "The tone of the exchanges has been relatively diplomatic so far, but the Duhalde government could be heading toward a major confrontation with the Bush administration." 
 Even before President Carlos Saul Menem, a Peronist, yoked the peso to the dollar in April 1991, Argentina had become Washington's staunchest Latin American ally. In a phrase that became famous but horrified many within the traditionally anti-American Peronist movement, Mr. Menem's foreign minister, Guido di Tella, initially described those ties as "carnal relations" -- though the term "automatic alignment" later came to be preferred.
Whatever its name, that policy made Argentina the only Latin American country to take part in the Persian Gulf war and to vote consistently with the United States on issues like human rights violations in Cuba.
But the new government has been stung by the Bush administration's apparent indifference and lack of assistance during the current crisis, as the country has grappled with recession, bankruptcy, default on its debt and a 40 percent devaluation of the peso. Recent declarations here have made it clear that the era of "carnal relations" is over.
"I don't see why we can't be polygamous" on questions of foreign policy and trade, was how the foreign minister, Carlos Ruckauf, described the new approach to reporters. Argentina now places an especially high priority, he said, on improving relations with Brazil and the European Union.
Already, the new government has begun firing broadsides at the International Monetary Fund, which has long been seen here as an extension of the United States Treasury Department. 
After the fund's officials said that they did not think a new dual exchange rate here was viable and that they were waiting for the Duhalde team to present a "coherent" economic plan, the deputy economy minister, Jorge Todesca, said, "They should talk less if they don't have anything interesting to say."
Most analysts here contend that even if relations between Argentina and the United States cool, it is unlikely that there will be a return to the outright hostility that prevailed both during Gen. Juan Peron's rule and the reign of the military dictatorship that took power after his death.
"The United States and Argentina had a conflictive relationship for 50 years before Menem," said Jorge Campbell, a former deputy foreign minister, "but the Menem-di Tella policy was intended to increase Argentina's links with the rest of the world, and that opening up to the outside continues." 
But others contend that a deeper conflict is being masked for the moment and will soon have to emerge. Argentina's default on its $141 billion public debt and its "violation of contracts across the board is a major challenge to the governability of global capitalism," Dr. Escude said, "and whether the U.S. likes it or not, it has the main responsibility to maintain the rules of the game." 
The principal beneficiary of any reorientation of foreign policy promises to be neighboring Brazil. Once a rival, Brazil has become Argentina's main ally and its senior partner in Mercosur, the 11-year-old South American trade group. 
"The Brazilians have every reason to be delighted," said Dr. Escude. "Argentina is now evolving toward a relationship in which it will become a sort of a new Rio Grande do Sul," Brazil's southernmost state. 
In an interview here, a senior government official confirmed that approach. "We intend to move toward a common market and a common currency" with Brazil, he said, adding that Argentina needed "a more balanced situation" in its foreign relations.
Brazil has responded to those overtures with warmth, pledges of support and symbolic shows of friendship.
More concretely, the shift means that Brazil now has another ally in its struggle against what it regards as American protectionism in foreign trade. 
American officials have long complained of what they call Brazilian "obstructionism" in negotiations to create a Free Trade Area of the Americas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TRENDS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WRITERS (75%); DESERT STORM (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); EURO (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; DUHALDE, EDUARDO (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ARGENTINA (97%); BRAZIL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); CUBA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) ARGENTINA; BRAZIL

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



609 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL 3-12

U.S. Still Deeply Concerned By India's Border Buildup
Although diplomacy has reduced the immediate risk of war between India and Pakistan, American officials said they are still worried by the mobilization along the tense border. 1

Deadly Volcano in Congo
The eruptions that began Thursday continued, displacing thousands and killing at least 40 more people. 8

Argentina and U.S. Grow Apart
The new government in Argentina has been stung by the Bush administration's lack of assistance during the current economic crisis. 4

NATION CHALLENGED 14-17

Test of Guantanamo Conditions As More Prisoners Arrive
Last week, 110 men were flown from Afghanistan to what is fast becoming a penal colony at Guantanamo Bay, with room being made for 1,900 more. 14

E-Mails Tied to Terror Suspect
The shoe-bomber suspect Richard C. Reid was in e-mail contact with supporters across Europe in the days before he flew to the United States. 16

New Scrutiny of Refugees
The Immigration and Naturalization Service, after reviewing its procedures since Sept. 11, increased its scrutiny of refugees seeking to enter the United States and the relatives who sponsor their entry. 16

Crisis Conditions in Afghanistan
In northwestern Afghanistan, tens of thousands of people are on the move, in search of food and security. 15

NATIONAL 18-28

Multiple Safeguards Failed To Detect Enron Problems
The system of safeguards that is intended to protect investors and employees from a catastrophic corporate implosion largely failed to address the problems that felled the Enron Corporation. 1

Donated Tissues Raise Concern
Donations of organs like hearts and livers are regulated zealously, but when it comes to human tissues like bones and skin there is little oversight, a situation that worries experts. 1

Mormons Prepare for Spotlight
Having the Olympics in Salt Lake City poses an opportunity and a challenge for the Mormon Church. Its officials want to create a good impression but not to proselytize. 1

Tobacco Documents Sought
The nation's biggest tobacco companies are seeking a vast amount of documents from 10 universities as part of their defense in a Justice Department lawsuit. 18

Blending War and Politics
Democrats assailed the presidential adviser Karl Rove for telling Republicans they could turn the war on terrorism to partisan advantage. 20

Bush Ending First Year
President Bush, who will mark his first anniversary in office today, is honing his message and looking ahead to midterm political battles. 20

First Boston to Pay Record Fine
Federal securities regulators plan to announce on Tuesday that Credit Suisse First Boston will pay one of the biggest penalties in Wall Street history, $100 million, for violating rules on how new stocks can be sold. 27

NEW YORK/REGION 31-35

Mayor Reacts Quickly To Increase in Homelessness
Within days of taking office, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tackled a civic issue that he, like many New Yorkers, has not had to confront for years: homeless people living on Manhattan streets. The mayor quickly reached out to advocates for the homeless. 31

Hearing on Air Quality
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton announced that she and Senator Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut will hold a hearing next month on the air quality at ground zero. 33

Neediest Cases 35

OBITUARIES 36-37

The Rev. Ernest Gordon
Retired dean of the chapel and chaplain emeritus of Princeton University, he was 85. 37

Chess 35
Weather 38

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); REFUGEES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); IMMIGRATION (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); TERRORISM (76%); PRISONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); SECURITIES LAW (69%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); RELIGION (68%); POLITICS (65%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (82%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); KARL ROVE (58%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (94%); INDIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CUBA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



610 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: INSIDE BASEBALL; 
Nobody Can Predict Future of Relocation

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The commissioner spoke, and everyone listened. Or did they?
 It must have been the way Bud Selig addressed the subject of relocation that caught his listeners off-guard and prompted many of them to misquote or misunderstand him. A team in Washington next year? He never said it. The Montreal Expos in Washington next season? He never even hinted at it. 
 No one knows what will develop in the next year -- Major League Baseball cannot even predict the next month -- but if Selig were injected with truth serum, not even he could say what his plans are for the 2003 season. 
At his news conference after the second day of the owners' meeting in Phoenix last week, the commissioner was answering questions about myriad issues, including contraction and labor talks. A reporter with a special interest in baseball for Washington then asked about that city's place in the scheme of things.
"You talked yesterday about how people should be reminded that all these moves are part of a whole and that they should be taken that way," the reporter said. "A lot of people in Washington are wondering whether they somehow fit into this plan, and I was wondering if you could talk about that."
Responding, Selig said: "There's no doubt in my mind that relocation is coming. It's just a question of when. I have always felt and have said this. I've tried to be so consistent in this regard. We need to solve the basic problems, and when we solve the basic problems, we can then turn our attention to relocation. Do I think relocation is coming in the near future -- and I don't exactly know what 'near future' means? I do."
The reporter immediately followed with another question: "Can we read into that that means relocation is coming to Washington?"
"Well," the commissioner replied, "Washington will have to read into it. But I'd have to say given the demographics of the area and the amount of people who want it, I would say they are the prime candidate for relocation. There's no question."
With his remarks, Selig captured everyone's attention because he spoke more positively than he had previously, both on the topic of relocation and on his designation of Washington as the prime candidate.
As recently as November, when he was asked about franchise movement, Selig dismissed it as a matter that, for now, would not solve anything. If he allowed a team to move to another city, he said, it would just be moving the problems from one place to another. And he never singled out any city as the prime candidate to get an existing team.
So perhaps his listeners were overcome with what sounded like news. But many of his listeners either deceived themselves or heard what they wanted to hear. Notice Selig did not say when he might consider allowing a team to move. He said absolutely nothing about 2003. He said he saw relocation in "the near future" but immediately emphasized that he had no time frame for that phrase.
Selig also did not utter the name of any team. Nowhere in that verbatim transcript of his comments does the name Expos appear, neither the Expos nor any other team.
But many of his listeners reported that he said relocation would occur in 2003, and many leaped to the conclusion that the team would be the sad-sack Expos. In reaching that conclusion, those listeners had to make a large assumption: that because it has become increasingly unlikely that the owners will be able to eliminate two teams for 2002, Selig will abandon the contraction plan for 2003.
Wrong. That's not the way Selig operates. If he cannot eliminate the Expos and one other team before April 1, he will pursue a plan to eliminate the Expos and one other team before opening day next year. He would sooner eliminate the Expos than relocate them.
Which struggling team might represent the third coming of Major League Baseball in Washington? That question has no answer now because there is no clear-cut choice for a second target of contraction if the Minnesota Twins are sold, not jettisoned.
But barring some major development with another city by the time Selig gives relocation his blessing, Washington is the city-in-waiting.
Corey Busch, a former executive with the San Francisco Giants, has, on assignment from the commissioner, studied cities and has not found one that is more viable than Washington. Cities like Nashville, Indianapolis, Charlotte and Portland, Ore., do not measure up. 
But the grounds crew at R.F.K. Stadium should not put down the foul lines just yet. There could very well be another presidential election before Selig knows when the "near future" is.
The last time a major league team changed cities, it left Washington. The exit of the Senators II followed the 1971 season. Since then, six N.F.L. teams, 10 N.B.A. teams (with an 11th on its way) and 8 N.H.L. teams have changed cities.

Mitchell Is Eager to Own
As a member of the blue ribbon panel that produced a report 18 months ago on the economics of baseball, George Mitchell knows the numbers as well as anyone. Yet he did not run the other way as fast as he could when he was invited to become a minority partner in the ownership of the Boston Red Sox.
When he was asked about his desire to get into baseball despite all that he knew, Mitchell, the former Senate majority leader, had a ready explanation.
"There is nothing in the blue ribbon panel report that says all baseball teams are equal," he said. "There is nothing in the blue ribbon panel report that is inconsistent with the interest in ownership of one of the most valued franchises in all of sports. Indeed, it is precisely the opposite. 
"The principal conclusion of the blue ribbon panel report is that there is a competitive imbalance created in part by an imbalance in revenue and payrolls. A logical conclusion of that is that those franchises which are fortunate enough to have substantial revenues are in a good position, so I think an interest in this is consistent with the conclusions of the blue ribbon panel report." 
Oh yes, one other thing, Mitchell said. "On a personal level I grew up in Maine, in a very sports-oriented family. My brothers were great athletes. I think we qualify as lifelong, die-hard Red Sox fans. To me, this is something that is interesting and exciting in a personal sense."
A successful international mediator, Mitchell looks forward to the Red Sox games with the Yankees.
"I think the Red Sox-Yankee rivalry is one of the great things in sports," he said. "I don't think people should look at it as something negative. I think it's something positive for the two franchises and for the sport. I think baseball would be a lot healthier if there were more, other rivalries between teams that were like the Red Sox-Yankee rivalry. It's a great thing for stimulating interest and discussion."

Sheffield Will Help (Not Mets)
The Mets tried and they tried and they tried again to put Gary Sheffield in their lineup. They tried the first time in 1997 and most recently this off-season. Either they changed their mind, or they did not have the right package of players to make a deal. But their quest was left incomplete. Now they may wish they had succeeded. Now Sheffield belongs to the Atlanta Braves.
Although the Mets had the most impotent offense in the majors last season, the Braves could not boast of having one much better. Now they have added Sheffield. "You can say whatever you want about what the Mets have done this off-season," an executive of a club said, "but the Braves have really improved themselves with the Sheffield trade. They still have to be considered the team to beat in the division."

Saving the Twins
While Minnesota Twins fans eagerly await the outcome of the negotiations for the proposed sale of the club by Carl Pohlad, a Minnesota banker, to Donald Watkins, an Alabama banker, that development would be only the first step of the process to save the Twins from contraction. Watkins would then have to undergo a financial review by Major League Baseball to determine that he has the money to buy and operate a team.
Watkins, who would be the first black to become majority owner of a major league team, received the green light by baseball officials to talk with Pohlad. But Jerry Bell, the Twins' president, said baseball "didn't do any investigation" of Watkins.
"Any financial investigation or review," Bell said, "doesn't come about until two parties reach an agreement on a sale. Then it's submitted to baseball."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bud Selig said Washington would be a top candidate for relocation -- if relocation ever takes place. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) BASEBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: MONTREAL EXPOS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (57%) MONTREAL EXPOS 

PERSON: SELIG, BUD; CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (88%) QUEBEC, CANADA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%) WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



611 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF; 
Listing Service Reports Home Sales Recovery

BYLINE:  By John Rather 

 BODY:
New figures released by the Multiple Listing Service of Long Island show median home prices in Nassau and Suffolk are continuing to rise despite the cooling of the regional economy and the cataclysmic events of Sept. 11. 
 The figures indicate that the market slowed dramatically in the two weeks following the World Trade Center attacks but then recovered. 
 The figures, which are for final sales, showed the median house price in Nassau was $290,000 in December, nearly 15 percent higher than in December 2000. The median in Suffolk rose by more than 13 percent to just above $215,000.
But the number of closings in the two counties was almost 12 percent lower in December than in the same month a year earlier. The December closings reflect houses that went under contract around the Sept. 11 period. It generally takes 8 to 10 weeks to complete sales of houses under contract.
Home sales declined from 613 in December 2000 to 543 last December in Nassau and from 927 in December 2000 to 740 last December in Suffolk.
The numbers are for sales reported through the multiple listing service only and do not reflect private sales or sales by real estate companies that do not report to the listing service.
Economists and most real estate professionals say the Long Island market remains strong, with some weakness in demand for expensive first and second homes. Demand for affordable housing selling for below median prices continued to be robust because of limited listings, they said.
 John Rather

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); HOME PRICES (91%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HIJACKING (76%); AIRLINES (74%); TERRORISM (72%) HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) NASSAU COUNTY (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



612 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFING: ENVIRONMENT; 
BLACK MINISTERS

BYLINE:  By Karen DeMasters 

 BODY:
 Ministers from 40 predominantly black congregations throughout the state have joined to build the economic strength and increase financial literacy of residents of the state's cities. The ministers, representing about 40,000 congregants from churches in Newark, Camden, Trenton and other urban areas, said last week that they want to work with banks and other financial institutions to increase investment in urban areas and help residents receive fair loans and start businesses. Karen DeMasters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); TRENDS (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) URBAN AREAS; BLACKS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: DEMASTERS, KAREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (91%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



613 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Political Briefing; 
Davis's New TV Ads Look Past the Primary

BYLINE:  By B. Drummond Ayres Jr. 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis of California, running for a second term, has no serious opposition in the state's March 5 primary. But last week, Mr. Davis, a Democrat, started running television commercials anyway, all over the state. 
 Why? 
 Poll numbers.
The three candidates competing for the Republican nomination have been beating up on the governor more than on one another, blaming him for the state's energy problems, the squeeze on its budget, the decline in its economy and the gridlock on its highways. And the assault appears to have had an effect.
In a poll by the Public Policy Institute of California that pits Mr. Davis and the three Republican hopefuls in theoretical fall races, the governor holds a comfortable lead of a dozen points over two of them, Secretary of State Bill Jones and William E. Simon Jr., a businessman. But former Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles, the third hopeful and the current favorite to be the Republican nominee, leads Mr. Davis by four points.
The new Davis television commercial, titled "Effectiveness," contends that the governor has been a strong leader, one that "you can count on" to be even stronger if given a second term.
The Jones camp calls the commercial "desperate."
The director of the poll, Mark Baldassare, says that while the results indicate that Mr. Davis is in political trouble, California Republicans, whose numbers and strength have been declining in recent years, should not become overconfident. Mr. Baldassare notes that independent voters, often the swing element in California elections, are holding back from throwing in with Republicans.
A footnote: California may be the country's most expensive political media market. But Mr. Davis will have no problem paying for his commercials. He has more than $36 million in the bank. He started raising money to run for a second term even before he was sworn in for his first term.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Gray Davis's ads look beyond the Democratic primary. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); BUDGETS (76%) FINANCES; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICAL ADVERTISING; PRIMARIES 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); JONES, BILL (SEC); SIMON, WILLIAM E JR; RIORDAN, RICHARD J 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



614 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: The Opposite of Layoffs: Ties of Loyalty 

BYLINE:  By MELINDA LIGOS 

 BODY:
AT most other companies, Susan Seidman probably would have been let go by now.
 In this economy, there just isn't much room on company payrolls for someone like Ms. Seidman. Her job is administering a healing treatment called Reiki to employees at Patrice Tanaka & Company, a public relations firm in Manhattan. She also provides counseling and meditation sessions to relieve their stress. "If I worked at another company, I'd be the first to go," said Ms. Seidman, who has been with the company for just over two years. 
 Last June, even though the company had just lost a few major clients, its chief, Patrice Tanaka, vowed to all 45 staff members that she would lay off people only as a last resort. She repeated the pledge in December, even though business was flat. "The only way to preserve the sense of community we've worked hard to foster here is to make a commitment to our employees through thick and thin," she said.
With New York City's unemployment rate surging to 6.8 percent in November from a recent low of 4.6 percent last April, many companies hard hit by the recession and terrorist attacks are trimming their staffs as profits falter. But a minority, including Ms. Tanaka's company, refuse to dismiss anyone, even as business suffers. For many, it is an issue of preserving the company's culture and keeping morale high.
"A no-layoffs policy is usually not a stand alone decision," said Bill Coleman, senior vice president for compensation at Salary.com, a Web site in Wellesley, Mass., that publishes salary information. "It's consistent with organizations that already have a sort of 'we're all a big family' mentality."
A big family is how Eric Villency, president of Maurice Villency, a furniture chain in the New York metropolitan area, describes his 200-member work force. Though profits are down 10 percent from last year, Mr. Villency has promised not to deliver any pink slips.
"For us, firing people would be like committing suicide," he said. "Cutting somebody would be like getting rid of a mother or an uncle. We just can't do it."
Indeed, many members of Mr. Villency's staff are family members. In the last few years, he says, one woman referred her mother to the company; nephews have hired uncles, and siblings have recommended one another. Dismissing even one employee, Mr. Villency says, could erode his company's retention rate, which is higher than that at most retail outlets.
"I stay loyal because the company has been loyal to me," said Norman Tenenbaum, an associate manager of Maurice Villency's Madison Avenue store, who has been with the company for 20 years. His fellow employees, he says, are "almost unmoved by the recession."
While maintaining staff loyalty is one reason Ms. Tanaka will not cut personnel, she also enjoys a practical benefit: Her employee turnover rate is 11 percent, compared with more than 30 percent in her field. She has advertised her policy in trade publications, quoting the author Thomas Moore and preaching the importance of "workplace as community." She said clients appreciate the fact that those who handle their accounts will probably still be working for the company tomorrow. "It's one of our strongest selling points," she said.
While smaller companies are more likely to have this kind of policy, several larger concerns known for their worker-friendly cultures, including Southwest Airlines and the Saturn Corporation, have also vowed not to cut workers. At Southwest Airlines, which employs more than 30 workers in Islip, N.Y., a no-layoffs policy has been in effect since the company began in 1971, even though most competitors have slashed payrolls since Sept. 11, according to Donna Conover, executive vice president for customer service for the Dallas-based company.
Job seekers looking for security should be forewarned, however: Most companies with no-layoffs policies are extremely cautious about hiring, even in economic booms, says Mr. Coleman of Salary.com. "You can bet that these companies' human resource departments are always pulling back on the reins, even in good times," he said.
Certainly, that is the case at Southwest Airlines. "We've always maintained as low a head count as possible," Ms. Conover said. Besides keeping a leaner staff at all times, struggling companies reluctant to lay off workers have had to resort to some creative cost-cutting. At Southwest Airlines, for example, plans to purchase a new telephone switch for the company's reservation system have been on hold. "We're looking at every expense and asking, 'Do we absolutely have to have it?' " Ms. Conover said.
Mr. Villency has decided not to upgrade his company's computer system. And at Patrice Tanaka's firm, all sorts of company perks, from yoga classes every other Tuesday to free ice cream on Manhattan summer days if the temperature reaches 95 degrees or more, have been eliminated. But Lauree Ostrofsky, an account supervisor for the firm, says employees are just relieved to keep their jobs. 
"We're all so appreciative just to have a paycheck that we're creating our own perks," Ms. Ostrofsky said. For instance, when the company stopped buying cakes for employees' birthdays, staff members started baking their own. "It's actually worked out great," she said. "Everybody likes homemade treats much better than store-bought ones anyway." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eric Villency, president of Maurice Villency, has pledged to retain his 200 employees. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); DISMISSALS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); MEDITATION (71%); CITIES (67%); RETAILERS (67%); FURNITURE STORES (62%); TERRORISM (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); SUICIDE (50%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: PATRICE TANAKA & CO INC (84%); SALARY.COM INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: LIGOS, MELINDA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



615 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Who Will Needle Regulators Now That Enron's Muzzled? 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
DARTH VADER. That was what Enron's enemies called the company when its phalanxes of lobbyists swept through Washington and state capitals in the late 1990's, aggressively and meticulously arguing in favor of loosening the electricity industry from a century of government control. 
 While other power companies fought deregulation as a threat to their very existence, Enron was quick to see the opportunities, and it devoted much money and labor to shaping the progress of changes on the federal and local levels. As deregulation moved ahead, Enron thrived, its core trading operations bloomed and it emerged as perhaps the most important company in the energy industry before suddenly collapsing into bankruptcy. 
 Now that Enron has been silenced, what's next on the energy deregulation front? The debacle in California that resulted in wide power shortages and a utility bankruptcy fanned powerful doubts about the necessity of tinkering with a system that delivers something as vital as electricity. Enron's collapse has set off murmurs on Capitol Hill, in the news media and among industry opponents of deregulation that the nationwide experiment was the cause of a financial scandal that becomes seamier by the day. 
Whether that will lead politicians or regulatory agencies to rein in deregulation will become evident in the coming weeks and months, as the House of Representatives discusses an electricity restructuring bill and as the Senate takes up its energy bill. 
"The feeling among a lot of energy companies is, 'Boy, Enron was working really hard to open up this market, and who will do this now?' " said Jeff Keeler, a former lobbyist for Enron who now works as a consultant to energy concerns. "Enron carried a lot of the water, and because it was out front, took a lot of the blows."
In fact, for all the self-generated hype about its influence, for all the envy of competitors and detractors, Enron, it turns out, failed to score many victories. The reinvention of the power industry has progressed far more slowly and has many more regulatory constraints than the company would have wanted. One of its goals, open access to the nation's transmission lines, is stalled in many regions.
Questions have already arisen about Enron's involvement in deregulation, climate-change policy and the Bush administration's energy plan. Representative Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat, is circulating a list of 18 items in the Bush energy policy, which was released in May, that he says have Enron's fingerprints on them. He and other members of Congress have petitioned the White House for transcripts of meetings between Vice President Dick Cheney and Enron's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, about energy policy. The last meeting occurred just days before the Enron bubble burst. So far, the requests have been rebuffed. The General Accounting Office is considering suing the administration to force it to release the transcripts.
Mr. Waxman and another Democrat, Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, both on the House Energy Committee, are also asking that a pending bill on electricity restructuring be delayed while Congress examines whether deregulation helped bring about the Enron fiasco. 
Curtis L. Hebert Jr., a former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission who is now a vice president at the Entergy Corporation, a power company in New Orleans, said: "I think you're going to see with Enron some of the same mind-set as with the price spikes in California. You'll see a much more methodical and reasonable approach to deregulation."
IN the deregulation debate, though, one man's reasonable approach is another's morass. Entergy and the Southern Company, based in Atlanta, have resisted deregulation in their regions mainly because they wanted to hold on to their monopoly status, other power company officials and regulators said. Many industry experts say Enron's downfall tips the balance in the national debate over deregulation toward companies like Entergy and Southern, which was the second-largest contributor, after Enron, to the Republican Party in 2000.
Southern's position against legislation addressing global warming may also be strengthened by Enron's demise, according to Mr. Keeler and lobbyists for other power companies. Enron backed policies that would have limited power plants' emissions of pollutants and gases thought to be linked to global warming. Enron stood to gain from such limits, because it could have developed instruments for swapping emissions credits. 
And because it owned natural-gas pipelines, Enron would have benefited from any push to build more power plants that used natural gas, which produces fewer emissions than coal. Opponents of emissions caps, who are rife in the domestic power industry, plan to paint any such legislation as the "Enron bill," according to Inside EPA, a newsletter that monitors federal environmental policy.
Former federal regulators, lobbyists and executives of Enron's erstwhile competitors argue that the Enron scandal was a result not of deregulation, but of lax oversight, hubris and ambition. "This may not be intellectually defensible, but it's politically predictable," said Joe Bob Perkins, executive vice president for wholesale businesses at Reliant Energy, a power generation and trading company in Houston. "I think it is a whole lot less likely that we will get a consensus on bills that could help deregulation."
The vast amount of work remaining on deregulation is perhaps the clearest proof that Enron's record in lobbying was mixed at best. "I don't think it was that anything Enron wanted, they got," said James Hoecker, a former chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
For almost 20 years, the federal government and many states with high electricity prices have been seeking to transform a power industry widely viewed as inefficient and plodding. Enron, when it was still only a natural-gas company, went through deregulation of the natural-gas industry in the 1980's, which gave it a sharper understanding than most utilities had of the issues involved in electricity restructuring. When power deregulation was being actively discussed on the state and federal levels in the mid-1990's, Enron accelerated the discussion and tried to shape it. The company has never shied away from spending whatever it took. In the first six months of 2001, Enron spent $825,000 lobbying Congress on a wide range of issues, according to a disclosure report Enron filed with Congress.
Other industry lobbyists seldom met with Congressional staff members or, when they did, had little to offer but their insistence on things being done in a certain way, said one senior Congressional staff member who spoke on condition of anonymity. But Enron came in with clear, informative presentations that had a logic to them. Their experts were on hand to answer complex questions, and they followed up on requests for more information. "Enron was very good at getting people to talk about certain things," the Congressional aide said. "They were very substantive and they were assertive." 
Yet Enron's success dwindled with time, partly because the company was no longer the loudest in the small chorus extolling deregulation. Competitors envied Enron's head-start and derided its know-it-all arrogance. But they soon began to emulate its sophisticated energy trading and marketing businesses. As a result, a number of companies, including Calpine, Duke Energy, Dynegy, Reliant and Williams, emerged with the money and political heft to push for deregulation. 
"A lot of Enron's influence had already passed even before the scandal," said Mary Doyle Kenkel, a Washington lobbyist for the Cinergy Corporation. "They hadn't been as vocal or in your face in the last couple of years."
Enron wanted Congress to adopt legislation that would quicken the pace of deregulation. Yet such legislation has languished for six or seven years, and seems unlikely to pass this year. The company pushed hard for the Bush administration to include a provision in its national energy plan saying the federal government would exercise eminent domain, or seize private and state lands, to build more power lines and beef up the transmission grid. Such new transmission projects would have brought down the price of power and made it easier for Enron to compete with local utilities. But the administration, after initially arguing for such a change, backed down in the face of opposition from Western states. 
Enron wanted the Bush administration to adopt climate change policies. But the White House chose to ignore the issue, largely because of the arguments made by the coal industry and several utilities, led by Southern, according to power company lobbyists in Washington.
Many industry observers have suggested that Enron scored a coup when President Bush appointed Pat Wood as chairman of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, succeeding Mr. Hebert. Mr. Wood ran the Public Utility Commission of Texas, and Enron endorsed his ascent. But Mr. Wood proved quickly that he had few ties to Enron. He has supported greater access to the electricity transmission grid, which Enron -- and many others -- also favored. But the effort at the commission to improve access to the network began long before he rose to the chairman's office. 
At the same time, Mr. Wood has taken steps that vexed Enron and other large power traders and marketers. In June, he voted to put in place a system in the Western states that prevented power prices from climbing sharply, a system that Enron and others contested. Later in the year, the commission proposed to eliminate any cap on refunds that power companies might be compelled to pay if there was evidence that they had rigged markets or gouged power buyers.
"I guess a regulator who is doing his job is the one who has both sides mad at him," one power company executive said.
ENRON'S true success may have been the ease with which it avoided scrutiny of securities regulators. The Securities and Exchange Commission paid scant attention to the partnerships that proved its undoing, mainly because Enron did not fit the definition of a traditional utility, industry experts said.
Indeed, to many people, the company's collapse had little to do with electricity deregulation and more to do with how its innovation and novelty, its complex financial and information products, pushed it beyond the comprehension of regulators, analysts and shareholders.
"I don't think this has anything to do with deregulation, because I didn't really see Enron as an energy company," said Mr. Hoecker, the former Federal Energy Regulatory Commission chairman. "To me it was more of a dot-com, in that it was all about information, facilitating the trading of energy by others, and this was the last dot-com crash."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Henry A. Waxman, above, says Enron exerted too much influence on the Bush energy policy. Pat Wood, right, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission chairman, has taken steps that vexed Enron and its rivals. (Associated Press); (Associated Press)(pg. 12); An Energy Department power-grid office in Loveland, Colo., helps manage the nation's partially deregulated electricity market. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Second Thoughts"Twenty-four states have passed laws to deregulate their electricity markets. Some of those states have delayed or suspended putting the laws into effect in the wake of the energy crisis in California last year. Chart shows: "Deregulation suspended or delayed," "Completely deregulated," "Partially deregulated," and "Still regulated" Map shows states that fit these categories. (Source: Edison Electric Institute)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (95%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (87%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); POWER FAILURES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); PETITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); POLITICS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ACCOUNTING (71%); CLIMATE CHANGE (71%); SCANDALS (52%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ENERGY AND POWER; FINANCES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (59%); FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (59%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (54%) BANERJEE, NEELA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



616 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1951 words

HEADLINE: How 287 Turned Into 7: Lessons in Fuzzy Math 

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
FOR years, the Enron Corporation was known and admired as one of the nation's most innovative companies. Now, it looks as if the only innovations the company will be remembered for are the many labyrinthine schemes it used to mislead investors about its financial position.
 It is not yet clear how early and often Enron substituted fantasy for reality in its reports to shareholders. But knowing the extent of the dishonesty is central to answering the question many people asked as they watched Enron implode. How could a company as big, profitable and powerful as Enron slide into oblivion so quickly? 
 Part of the answer is that Enron was neither as large nor as profitable as it claimed. But the company was a master of obfuscation in its financial statements, so investors were kept pretty much in the dark about its stature. 
For example, the company said it was a highly profitable enterprise. But a determined investor looking closely at its financial statements would have found that even in the California power crisis, when energy costs were in the stratosphere and profits should have rolled in, Enron was earning only one-half of 1 percent on its sales. 
Another half-truth concerned Enron's appearance last year at No. 7 on the Fortune 500 list of largest American companies. The company's $101 billion in revenue placed it between the powerhouses Citigroup and I.B.M. on the list. But rising to that level occurred only because energy trading companies can record as revenue the total amount of their transactions, rather than the profits made on each trade as is typical at brokerage firms. If viewed this way, Enron's revenue would have been $6.3 billion last year, pushing it to the bottom half of the list, at No. 287, wedged between Automatic Data Processing and Campbell Soup. 
Adding credibility to the view that Enron was more ephemeral than real was last week's announcement that UBS was taking over the company's vaunted trading business, and paying nothing up front. 
"We don't know where reality sets in at Enron," said Robert F. McCullough, an authority on the electric utility industry at McCullough Research, a consulting firm in Portland, Ore. "We know that the operational numbers as far as we can follow them don't scan. We have 4,000-odd special-purpose entities off the balance sheet. We're having very grave doubts about the overall honesty of the company. The question is, How far down did that dishonesty extend?" 
It may take a team of forensic accountants months if not years to unravel all the Enron entities and see where the $12.5 billion that the company raised in the capital markets over the last 10 years went. 
Nevertheless, for investors hoping to learn from the Enron wreck, a look back at its recent financial statements, fuzzy though they were, does show several warning signs of some of the company's woes well before the bottom fell out last fall. Investors concerned that other Enrons may be lurking in the stock market's shadows can sharpen their pencils and conduct a few tests on financial statements to allay or confirm their fears.
Michael J. Maubossin, chief United States investment strategist at Credit Suisse First Boston, said Enron was, to some degree, a victim of its own growth promises. Even as the company was convincing investors that its impressive revenue growth would translate into extremely profitable businesses, Enron was unable to produce the returns that investors demanded.
"The reason people had enthusiasm for Enron was you could have made the case that they were in nascent markets that were going to develop into solid ones," Mr. Maubossin said. "But the economics were not there. As Enron needed more capital, the company went to more byzantine financial structures to try to achieve the growth it needed." 
In Enron's days as a stock market darling, there was almost nothing it could say that investors wouldn't believe. One claim that caught the eye of Mr. McCullough well before Enron collapsed last year involved the commercial success of Enron Online, the company's online trading business. During 18 months that ended in the company's third quarter, even as other dot-coms went bankrupt, retrenched or simply vanished, revenue at Enron Online grew at an astonishing 12 percent a month. 
A particularly doubtful assertion made by Enron Online was the so-called notional revenue it reported, Mr. McCullough said. For the first nine months of 2001, in news releases, Enron Online reported $544 billion in notional revenue, or the total amount of the underlying gas and electricity that the operation's trades covered. Yet, this contrasts greatly with the energy purchases and sales that Enron reported in its filings with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the same period. Those reports show just $693 million in energy purchases and sales by the company. "We compare that $693 million against $544 billion and it's a surprising number," Mr. McCullough said. It is also a dubious number, he added. "A normal utility would have total electric revenues in the $1-to-$2-billion range, so the Enron number is roughly equivalent to the amount of electricity generated by 500 large utility companies. But they never put any of these numbers side by side so people would begin to question the numbers." 
FEW investors can be expected to have done the extensive work Mr. McCullough did to uncover suspicious figures in Enron's reports. But by comparing two figures found in Enron's annual reports, even a novice could have found reason to doubt the earnings the company was reporting in recent years.
According to Enron's 2000 annual report, which does not reflect the four years of earnings restatements the company announced in October, net income rose to $979 million in 2000 from $703 million in 1998, an increase of 39 percent. Total earnings for the three years came in at $2.575 billion.
As is now known, these profits were almost completely manufactured. But even before the dire restatement of last fall, investors on the lookout for wide discrepancies between a company's reported earnings and its retained earnings -- the profits that it made after all expenses and costs, like stock dividends, were paid -- would have noticed a gulf at Enron.
For 1998 through 2000, Enron's net retained earnings, after subtracting losses from its trading activities, totaled just $474 million, roughly $2 billion less than its reported profits. 
What this exercise illustrates is the amount of puffery that can go into a company's income statement. Retained earnings, found in a company's statement of changes in shareholder equity, are not as closely watched by investors as are a company's net earnings, but they are less easily manipulated. 
"This is the type of analysis anyone could have done on Enron one year ago but nobody would have believed it," said an institutional money manager. "Shareholders can do it right now with other companies that have accounting issues or with any company that reports pro forma numbers." 
UNDERSTANDING that Enron's profits were not nearly what the company had said they were helps to explain its quick demise. But plenty of uncertainty remains about why the company was so starved for cash that it had to borrow almost $6 billion in the six weeks after its third-quarter earnings bombshell and leading up to its bankruptcy filing.
Some of these borrowings may have been forced on the company by other lenders worried about the possibility of Enron's collapse. On Nov. 19, Enron disclosed that a downgrade on its debt rating required it to repay a $690 million note earlier than it had planned. Nevertheless, Mr. McCullough said, it is not clear that all $6 billion went to such payments.
Indeed, the company's financial statements show evidence of a cash squeeze early last year even as Enron was reporting growing profits. For example, in 2000, Enron said its net cash provided by operations totaled $4.8 billion. But Mr. McCullough pointed out that the total included $5.5 billion in deposits that Enron required of customers in California because of the spike in energy prices there, money that the company had to repay later. That put Enron's cash flow at negative $700 million. Deduct the proceeds from asset sales -- one-time activities that were not part of the company's core business -- and Enron's cash flow was a negative $2.56 billion in 2000.
In the first nine months of 2001, the company did a bit better, producing positive cash flow of $953 million. Even so, that is not a great showing when compared with Enron's revenue. "Against cumulative sales of $101 billion in 2000 and $138.7 billion in the first three quarters of 2001, this is an amazingly small amount of cash," Mr. McCullough said. "When you see one of the fastest growing corporations in a cash shortage, you have to ask: Where did that cash go?"
With a definitive answer to this question a long way off, Mr. McCullough is willing to make an informed speculation about why Enron unraveled as it did. 
Based on Enron's financial statements, the company was obviously presenting a very strong picture on extremely weak fundamentals. Once executives had promised profitability, they had to worry about keeping up the appearances of a moneymaker. While its revenue was growing quickly, this was manageable. But when the growth tailed off, the promise of profitability became impossible to deliver. 
For the first three quarters of 2001, revenue at the company increased 132 percent from the same period in 2000. Normally, cash flow from such impressive growth would be enough to cover any temporary cash shortfalls. 
But isolating each period shows a different picture. Revenue growth at Enron in the second quarter flattened abruptly, and in the third quarter, revenue actually fell by $2.5 billion. Operations at the company's wholesale group for the Americas, which accounted for most of Enron's sales, were also slowing. Income before interest and taxes in this segment of the company declined to $582 million in the second quarter of 2001 from $661 million in the first quarter, Mr. McCullough said. Income rose again in the third quarter, to $717 million.
At the same time, Enron was returning $2.35 billion in deposits to its California customers. 
"When we have four quarters of level revenues at wholesale Americas, one really does wonder whether continued growth was needed to maintain the fiction of financial profitability," Mr. McCullough said. "It seems to be a situation where they are running twice as fast to stay where they are. Their financial problems might have been intervening in their day-to-day trading activities." 
Enron may have found a way to paper over its problems, Mr. McCullough said, with an accounting technique known as "mark to market." That would have allowed it to realize immediately the earnings it forecast on energy deals even though the costs and revenue on those deals might stretch over long periods. A result would be high earnings but little actual cash coming in. 
The inherent risk in such an arrangement is that the price of energy could fall. If that happened, the contract struck previously would become less valuable than the company had forecast, creating a loss on the deal. Salvation from having to show the loss could present itself, however, in an even bigger power contract at current prices.
The new contract, Mr. McCullough explained, would provide enough mark-to-market earnings to offset the loss on the contract struck when prices were higher. "With sufficient growth in volume, earnings can be positive in each year," he said, "while cash flows continue to deteriorate." But such an approach fails when sales growth falls, he said, "like any other pyramid scheme."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 1) Chart: "Reality Check"Enron's revenue and earnings were impressive on the surface, but paled on closer scrutiny. Because energy trading companies report the entire amount of their trades as revenue, Enron became a $100 billion company in 2000. Under traditional accounting methods, the company's sales were $6.3 billion. And Enron's earnings totaled $2.575 billion from 1998 to 2000, but retained earnings, a better measure of what a company truly makes, totaled only $474 million. Graph shows Revenue (REPORTED REVENUE and REVENUE AFTER DEDUCTING COST OF COMMODITIES UNDERLYING TRADES) and INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS (NET INCOME and RETAINED EARNINGS) since 1998. (Source: Enron's 2000 10-K report as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (87%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (87%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (62%); FORENSICS (50%) FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); GEOPHARMA INC (91%); AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: ADP (NASDAQ) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (58%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; MCCULLOUGH, ROBERT F 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (52%) OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



617 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Exit Strategies; 
The Rich Are Different. They Know When to Leave.

BYLINE:  By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

 BODY:
BUSINESS booms are famous for hiding underlying problems in an economy. It takes a recession to make them obvious. Now, like melting snow, this recession is uncovering a glaring inequality in the system the United States has gradually adopted over the last 20 years to prepare its workers for retirement.
 The Enron Corporation is the showcase. Its top executives are walking away with money in their pockets for their own retirement, while their employees have watched their pension savings disappear because Enron's stock price plunged. 
 But Enron is not the only place where inequality exists. With much less fanfare -- and in the absence of corporate misbehavior -- top executives at other big companies have been similarly insulated from the losses that recession and reversal are imposing on their workers. 
In the 1980's and 90's, millions of workers were persuaded that when they invested in stock plans for their retirement, they were gaining access to the same rising market that has traditionally benefited the wealthy. It seemed a way to make access to retirement security more equitable. But when prices fell, lower-income people began suffering in ways that higher-income people have not, because top executives have better information, more diversified ways to save and, above all, company-funded pension plans that are less and less available to ordinary workers.
In other words, workers gained an ability to profit from a stock market boom alongside the wealthy, but not an equivalent ability to withstand a downturn. "What we are seeing is a retirement safety net for top executives, whereas ordinary workers, in the name of freedom to manage their own investments, are left without a safety net," said Michael Sandel, a Harvard political scientist. "Worse than paradoxical, is there not something unfair in such a system?"
That question is only beginning to surface as workers experience the downside of investing their retirement savings in their employer's stock. They were happy to do so while stock prices surged in the 1990's, when they bought into an increasingly popular view pushed by the Clinton administration and by many corporate leaders. That way of thinking held that a well-informed worker, free to invest his or her own savings, would reach age 65 with a larger pension than the company could provide by financing a fixed-payment retirement plan. The same reasoning played a role in the movement -- now dormant -- to privatize Social Security.
Pat Cleary, a vice president at the National Association of Manufacturers, a lobbying group, puts the argument for such plans succinctly: "There are a lot of millionaires out there at all levels, white and blue collar, who became millionaires by investing in their own companies' stocks. We would not want to discourage that." 
Few were discouraged as long as stock prices rose. The percentage of workers who depended on 401(k) style savings plans rose to 27 percent in the late 1990's from 16 percent in 1989, while the percentage who relied on company-funded pension plans fell to 7 percent from 15 percent. And the amounts that people invested in their employer's stock also rose, reaching 19 percent of the nearly $2 trillion held in 401(k) plans.
Now the recession, and the Enron crisis, are shaking people up, particularly those earning less than $60,000 a year, who make up more than half the work force. Their 401(k) contributions represent virtually their entire savings, pension experts say. And at many companies the portions invested in the employer's stock are disappearing.
At Enron, 15,000 workers have lost $1.3 billion of the $2.1 billion that was in the company's 401(k) plan a year ago.
IN addition, tens of thousands of workers at other big companies -- Lucent, for example, General Electric, McDonald's, Coca-Cola -- have held their collective breath as these companies' stock prices fell by more than 20 percent in the last year. All four, like Enron, have 401(k) plans heavily invested in their own stock. 
But officers at the top of these companies have much more room to maneuver. "The reason that highly compensated top executives do not get hit like ordinary people," said Annika Sunden of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College, "is that the highly compensated are also highly diversified, much more diversified than the middle income employee who is encouraged by his employer to own the company's stock. And they are much less dependent than the ordinary worker on a pension as the source of retirement income."
Pearl Meyer, president of Pearl Meyer & Partners, an executive compensation consulting firm, maps the world of top executives. For one thing, she says, they know before their employees do when their company is in trouble. They can sell big portions of their stock holdings before the trouble becomes public and the stock price plunges, as Enron's did, falling in a few weeks from more than $30 a share to less than $1 before it was removed from the New York Stock Exchange last week. Getting out ahead of the tidal wave is one way to describe the actions of Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman, and other top Enron executives.
BUT even if the executives of a suffering company sell none of their shares on insider knowledge, they have other ways to cushion themselves for retirement. These executives, Ms. Meyer says, receive 67 percent of their compensation in the form of company stock. So they are at risk. But the total compensation is $10 million a year for the average top executive at the 200 big companies she studied. So more than $3 million still comes to each in cash, and that means the executive can diversify investments far more than the ordinary worker can.
Financial advisers, paid for by the company, help the top executive diversify and get into sophisticated investments. Most have also built up $5 million to $10 million in real estate investments, usually in the form of two or more expensive homes, Ms. Meyer said. And the riskier the business an executive runs, the more conservative he or she tends to be in making outside investments. "I find that executives in the most volatile industries buy bonds," Ms. Meyer said. 
If all else fails, the top executive has a safety net -- the same company-funded pension that ordinary employees are gradually losing as companies shift them to 401(k)-style contribution plans, which require workers to make payroll contributions. Companies frequently match part of the employee's contribution, often with company stock that can't be quickly sold. 
The company-funded pension plans for top executives are cash, not stock arrangements requiring a contribution from executives. Not only top executives get them, but many managers earning upward of $200,000 a year, Ms. Meyer says. The retirement payout ranges from 60 percent of an executive's pre-retirement pay after 30 years down to 25 percent for an executive with 15 years. The pension payments are in cash.
Richard A. McGinn was on the very high end of this spectrum when he was ousted as Lucent's chief executive in 2000 at age 52 and began to receive a pension of $870,000 a year, not far below his final year's salary. That was the year that Lucent's stock fell to $15 from $77 (it is now below $10). The stock plunge shrank the savings of thousands of Lucent workers who had built up $11 billion in the company's 401(k) plan, 17 percent of it in company stock. The 401(k) has been gradually overshadowing a company-financed pension plan for employees.
What Lucent's experience reflects "is a broader shift in our society away from a willingness to share the consequences of bad times, toward making individuals face the risks of economic downturns on their own," Mr. Sandel, the Harvard political scientist, said. 
With Enron spotlighting the consequences, the National Association of Manufacturers is reviewing its views -- and so far sticking with them, Mr. Cleary said. Anything that encourages personal savings is good for the economy, he argues. More directly, when employees have savings in company stock they are more loyal, more committed to their work, more likely to raise product quality. And using stock rather than cash to match employee contributions to 401(k) plans is often the least expensive route for a company.
Mr. Cleary says companies are telling him, "Let's not foul all the 401(k) plans that are working because one went wrong."
BUT apart from how well these plans might be made to work -- perhaps through a law limiting the amount of a company's own stock in its 401(k) plan -- there is another, more basic, criticism of the shift toward requiring people to save for their own retirement. Given that most households have less than $60,000 a year in income, their savings in 401(k) plans average only $20,000.
That is far from enough to pay for retirement beyond what comes from Social Security, says Karen Ferguson, director of the Pension Rights Center. She would require employers to contribute much more than their workers to 401(k) plans.
There lies the road back to company-funded pension plans.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Corporate Cash: Everybody Gets Some"The unraveling of Enron has focused some attention on the extensive political contributions the company made to Republican candidates. But few federal politicians get by without the helping hand of big corporations, and the Democrats do quite nicely among some of the biggest contributors. Enron became an aggressive backer of Republicans . . .Enron's political donations grew sharply through the 90's, as did the percentage of its contributions that went to Republican candidates. Graph tracks TOTAL ENRON POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO ALL FEDERAL CANDIDATES AND PARTIES (1989-'02). Graph tracks the contributions TO REPUBLICANS and TO DEMOCRATS. . . . but neither party gets by without some corporate contributions . . .Money from some of the biggest corporations can be found in the pockets of most members of Congress. Graph tracks PORTION OF CURRENT HOUSE AND SENATE MEMBERSHIP THAT RECEIVED ANY FUNDS FROM SELECTED TOP CORPORATE GIVERS* (1989-'02 cumulative). . . . and the Democrats are doing just fine themselves.Although labor unions tend to be the biggest givers to the Democratic party, top corporate donations often tilt in the party's favor as well. Graph tracks TOTAL RECEIVED BY CURRENT HOUSE AND SENATE MEMBERSHIP FROM TOP CORPORATE GIVERS* (1989-'02 cumulative). * PAC and individual contributions+ Includes Primerica Corp., Travelers Corp./Group and Citicorp/Citibank(Sources: Center for Responsive Politics; Federal Election Commission)(pg. 5) Drawing (Brad Hamann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); STOCK OPTIONS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); ETHICS (69%) FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LABOR; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (59%); FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (59%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (84%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



618 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1692 words

HEADLINE: The Enron Hearings; 
Cleaning Up After the Debacle

 BODY:
The curtain is about to rise on at least seven different Congressional committee inquiries related to Enron. It might have been nice if the committee chairmen had brought the number down to a slightly more manageable level, but the intense scrutiny is certainly justified. While being careful not to step on any criminal investigations, Congress must address a wide array of serious issues raised by the company's unexpected implosion. 
 The real scandal, as is often said during these post-mortems, may have been what was legal. How could Enron rely on hundreds of sham offshore subsidiaries to avoid paying income taxes in four of the last five years? How could thousands of employees' retirement savings be threatened by their employer's collapse? Who was overseeing the accountants, the financial world's overseers? 
 The House Energy and Commerce Committee held a fruitful hearing on the accounting issue last December, and the inquiries to come may be equally useful. Beginning next Thursday with the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee hearing, the public will get plenty of opportunity to see the Enron tale's cast of characters respond to questions about what happened and why.

The Company
Although he came close to naming his company Enteron, a term for the digestive track, Kenneth Lay, the company's chairman, could seemingly do no wrong. He hired Jeffrey Skilling and Andrew Fastow, brash financial wizards who would become the company's chief executive and chief financial officer, respectively. Together they transformed Enron from an operator of gas pipelines into an energy-trading pioneer. Enron reinvented itself again in the late 1990's, aided and abetted by the financial markets' hype about the new economy. It brokered everything from broadband Internet capacity to water contracts, matching buyers and sellers, much as some exchanges buy and sell stocks or commodities. The difference was that much of Enron's trading activity was unregulated.
Enron could claim to be America's seventh-largest company last year, partly because it was allowed to count as revenue the overall dollar amount of the trades it arranged, not just its commissions. Enron further exaggerated its revenues and hid much of its debt through dealings with ostensibly independent partnerships, some bearing the names of Star Wars characters, that were in fact controlled by company insiders like Mr. Fastow, who pocketed $30 million from the arrangement.
Investors were unaware of the accounting shenanigans. Compared with ephemeral dot-coms, Enron was touted as a sure thing on Wall Street, a "real" company adopting Internet savvy to sell real goods. But Mr. Skilling's unexpected resignation last August alarmed Wall Street, as well as Sherron Watkins, an Enron vice president familiar with Mr. Fastow's deals. Ms. Watkins is bound to figure prominently in the committee hearings because of her now-famous letter to Mr. Lay raising questions about the questionable transactions. "I am incredibly nervous that we will implode in a wave of accounting scandals," she wrote. She was right, but she thought it would take years, not months. 
At about the same time, Mr. Lay was telling Business Week that Enron had no undisclosed problems. "If there is anything material and we're not reporting it, we'd be breaking the law," he said. "We don't break the law." Mr. Lay got the law right. Shareholders cannot be kept in the dark. 
Enron announced a $618 million third-quarter loss on Oct. 16, and in a conference call with Wall Street analysts, Mr. Lay mentioned in passing that the company's value had declined by $1.2 billion as a result of deals with the mysterious partnerships. Investors abandoned the company in the face of increasingly damning revelations. The next month, Enron acknowledged that it had overstated profits by nearly $600 million during the prior five years, and a potential savior called off a merger, expressing concerns about Enron's candor. The company filed for bankruptcy on Dec. 2.

The Employees
Unlike Ms. Sherron, most Enron employees were unaware of the company's dubious finances, and they are the tale's most sympathetic characters, its victims. The integrity of markets is a mind-numbing abstraction compared with the plight of loyal workers who lost retirement savings while company officials cashed in $1.1 billion in stock. 
When companies failed in the old days, people lost their jobs and incomes, but not whatever savings they had. But now, many workers have the bulk of their retirement money in 401(k) accounts set up by their companies and invested to an alarming degree in company stock. 
Enron attracted many of its employees because its stock was such a highflier in the 90's. As the stock price fell last year, they were discouraged from diversifying their holdings by management's predictions that it would rise again. As late as Sept. 26, Mr. Lay urged employees during an online chat to buy Enron stock, calling it "incredibly cheap."
As if to add insult to injury, a change of retirement plan administrators meant that employees were barred from unloading any stock in their 401(k) accounts in late October and early November, as the stock price took its final, enteron-wrenching dive.
Under the law, Enron managers should have been forthcoming about the company's true condition with all shareholders, including its employees. But employees need to be protected against more than just deceptive bosses. Congress is going to have to consider whether it makes sense to allow workers at any company to invest so much of their retirement money in a single stock.

The Auditors
The company's management was not alone in betraying Enron workers and the millions of other investors, who lost $60 billion. The culprits include the company's board of directors, its auditors and Wall Street analysts who blindly hyped the stock.
Enron's "firing" of Arthur Andersen as its auditor on Thursday, and the finger-pointing leading to it, amounts to a lovers' quarrel. Andersen, we now know, had been troubled for some time by Enron's accounting, but not so troubled that it was willing to risk losing such a lucrative client. So it submissively signed off on deceptive earnings reports. 
Last week's dismissal by Andersen of its lead Enron auditor, David Duncan, and its attempt to blame him for the destruction of Enron-related documents do not begin to absolve the firm. Implicated in a number of other recent high-profile accounting scandals, Andersen had an unduly cozy relationship with Enron, rife with the types of conflicts of interest that are all too pervasive in an industry that has long fought outside regulation.
Harvey Pitt, the S.E.C. chairman and former lawyer for Andersen, scrambled to announce a proposal for more independent oversight of the industry, but that is hardly enough. Mr. Pitt remains in denial about the severity of the conflicts of interest auditors run into when they also sell consulting services to the companies whose books they must review. His predecessor, Arthur Levitt, tried unsuccessfully to ban such conflicts. Congress must now take that step.

The Bush Administration
Even if President Bush is now eager to pretend that Kenneth Lay, "Kenny Boy" in better times, would rather have Ann Richards in the White House, no company has been more supportive of Mr. Bush throughout his career than Enron, and none could boast of greater access to his White House.
Republicans fear that committee hearings in the Senate, where Democrats are in control, will degenerate into a plot to hang Enron around the president's neck. There has been no evidence that the administration has been guilty of any illegalities. Nevertheless, there are plenty of questions to be asked about the connections between Enron and the government.
Democrats are rightfully demanding that Vice President Dick Cheney disclose the details of his efforts on behalf of Enron's project in India and his energy task force's contacts with the company. But they must go back further.
During the Clinton administration, Congress exempted much of Enron's trading activity from federal regulation. The public needs to know more about how those decisions were made. The committees also need to examine the roles of current lawmakers. Senator Phil Gramm, whose wife was a member of the Enron board of directors, should recuse himself from hearings held by the Senate Banking Committee, where he is the ranking minority member.
Enron turned to the administration for help in its hour of need. According to the White House, once the company's troubles were in the news in October, Mr. Lay called Commerce Secretary Donald Evans and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill, and Enron's president spoke with a Treasury undersecretary. Enron wanted the administration to intercede on its behalf with credit rating agencies. The administration says it believed there was no legitimate reason to intervene and acted (or didn't) accordingly.
Inevitably, this part of the investigation is going to lead back to the need for campaign finance reform. The administration argues that because it did not help Enron, the current system worked, but that is silly. Suppose the administration had determined that a bailout of Enron was necessary to avert a financial catastrophe. Would the close connections between the company and the Bush White House have made it politically impossible to do what the administration believed was the right thing?
Enron's deep tentacles disqualified Attorney General John Ashcroft from the criminal investigation because he received more than $57,000 from the company and its employees in his last Senate race. Virtually the entire United States attorney's office in Enron's hometown, Houston, has also recused itself. So the Justice Department has rightly assembled a national task force to pursue the case and determine whether criminal charges are warranted. The prosecution needs to be aggressive. Civil fines, however hefty, are no match for jail time as a means of curbing widespread misconduct. The Congressional hearings, however important, are only one side of the process. Making sure the wrongdoers are punished is the other. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday summarizing the previous week's developments in the collapse of the Enron Corporation misstated the timing of an online chat session in which the company's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, answered employees' questions. It was conducted on Sept. 26, not in October. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SCANDALS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ETHICS (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); RESIGNATIONS (74%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); INCOME TAX (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (64%); SECURITIES TRADING (64%); NEW ECONOMY (63%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (57%); BROADBAND (50%) ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BANKRUPTCIES; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; EDITORIALS; LABOR; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



619 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: PENSIONS; 
Experts Say Diversify, but Many Plans Rely Heavily on Company Stock

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
As the workers who lost their retirement savings in Enron stock demonstrated, Americans are not always the best investors. And sometimes their companies set up incentives that can make things worse. 
 Many Enron workers saved mainly through their 401(k) retirement plans, and chose to keep their 401(k) money mostly or entirely in Enron stock. Financial advisers say it is wiser to choose a mix of investments. 
 "It sounds so reasonable to diversify," said Elizabeth W. Jetton, who is president of Financial Vision Advisors in Atlanta and serves on the board of the Financial Planning Association. But many middle-class American investors "tend to be extremists," either overlooking risk or investing too conservatively. 
Enron pushed them in this direction. Like many other big companies, it matched workers' 401(k) contributions only with its own stock. In addition, Enron's corporate culture encouraged employees to put their own contributions into company stock as well. Just before Enron collapsed, 60 percent of its 401(k) assets were reportedly held in its own shares.
Most economists and financial planners recommend against holding much stock in the company that pays one's salary. But Enron was not the only company that offered incentives to do the opposite. General Motors' 401(k) plan for salaried workers offers 76 investment options, almost all of which are managed internally or by Fidelity Investments. Employees must, however, buy a dollar of G.M.'s own stock for each dollar they funnel to the other investment options, up to 3 percent of salary. G.M. matches a fifth of the first 6 percent of salary, also in stock. Workers must hold that stock until the end of the calendar year in which it is bought.
Chuck Tschampion, managing director of defined-contribution plans at G.M.'s asset management division, said 20 to 25 percent of the money in G.M.'s 401(k) plan for salaried workers is typically in G.M. stock. In G.M.'s 401(k) for its hourly workers, who face no requirements for stockholding, only 10 to 15 percent of the assets are generally in company stock.
Pension experts and financial advisers suggest several improvements on G.M.'s model. Lowell M. Smith Jr., a consultant at Invesmart on the laws governing retirement benefits, said that 401(k) plans could achieve a second level of diversification -- beyond having different types of investment options -- by having several different companies manage those options.
Louis Berney, the editor of DC Pension Investing, an industry newsletter distributed by the Institute of Management and Administration, also recommended having fewer options, to avoid confusing employees. "You don't need to have 80 funds that are offered" to maintain a diversified portfolio, he said. "That is more confusing than anything."
One possible model is Akzo-Nobel, the international chemical and pharmaceutical company. In addition to company stock, Akzo-Nobel's 401(k) offers nine investment funds and the option of a dynamic portfolio that changes automatically as an employee ages. Unlike G.M.'s funds, Akzo-Nobel's funds are run by four different firms: Fidelity, Franklin, Janus and Vanguard.
The company matches its workers' 401(k) contributions 50 to 80 percent for the first 6 percent of salary. Employees are free to put all the money wherever they want. Jaime Erickson, Akzo-Nobel's manager of defined contribution plans, said that under 10 percent of the 401(k) assets were in the company's own stock.
Most experts agree that telling investors about the benefits of diversification will help to protect them from big losses. "Definitely the most important thing is to try to educate the participants as much as possible," said Mr. Berney.
But Paul Yakoboski, director of policy research at the American Council of Life Insurers, worried that investors were "not following the education that they're getting." He said that making it easier for independent financial advisers to enter the workplace, as proposed in a bill sponsored by Representative John Boehner, Republican of Ohio, would make more of a difference.
A quarter-century ago, private pensions were managed virtually exclusively by employers and their appointed trustees. The rise of 401(k) plans has changed that picture dramatically.
"It is quite fair to say that when it comes to saving for retirement, 401(k) is the main way that it's done nowadays," Mr. Yakoboski said. "If you were to compare it to other vehicles, like I.R.A.'s, it's not even close."
Many Americans are "relying so much on their 401(k) that they don't have savings anywhere else," Ms. Jetton said. "It's sort of, 'I gave at the office.' "
Congress created 401(k) plans in the Revenue Act of 1978, with the intent that fat tax incentives and reassuring links to employers would encourage workers to save more for retirement.
Until then, most companies offering pensions had guaranteed their retirees fixed levels of income, and had thus borne all the risks of the investments needed to generate that income. Businesses soon took advantage of the opportunity to shift those risks to their employees. Using 401(k) plans and other programs to promote workers' ownership of company stock was also thought to promote loyalty and drive up share prices.
Between 1984 and 2000, 401(k) assets grew more than 20 percent a year, far outpacing all other types of pension plans. According to the Labor Department's most recent statistics, 401(k) plans now contain roughly $2 trillion in assets -- about two in five dollars of all pension wealth -- with over 42 million participants.
"To a large extent, the shift has been in response to changes in the marketplace, in the economy, and in the work force," said Ann L. Combs, the assistant secretary of labor in charge of the Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration. With skyrocketing stock prices and an increasingly mobile work force, she said, the allure of accounts that could be invested in the markets and carried between employers grew.
Though many companies still offer traditional pensions as well as stock-ownership and profit-sharing programs, Mr. Berney said, 401(k) plans were becoming the major source of retirement income.
The shift to 401(k) plans has highlighted Americans' abilities and shortcomings as investors. Mr. Smith said he had observed at least three types of investors. The most active are "do-it-yourselfers" who track and transact investments in the way day traders do. Then there are the "validators" who have a vague idea of their goals but want professional advice. Least active are those who have little understanding of the plans and invest in what they hope will be a conservative way.
Day traders who take too many risks are more the exception than the rule, though, according to Mr. Yakoboski. "401(k) participants are often very unsophisticated investors," he said. "They're passive investors."
Mr. Berney warned that naive investors could end up trying to follow overly conservative strategies. "People underestimate how much they're going to need" for retirement, he said.
Moreover, what workers think is a safe strategy, like investing in the stock of a well-established employer, can turn out to be the opposite.
"They don't realize they're taking the risk," Mr. Smith said. But the truth was harshly revealed at Enron and at Lucent Technologies, where 401(k) accounts also suffered big losses when the company's stock plunged.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about companies that encourage employees to put 401(k) money into their own stock, and about financial planners' recommendations to diversify portfolios, misstated the name of a newsletter whose editor, Louis Berney, recommended that plans combat confusion by offering fewer options. It is DC Plan Investing, not DC Pension Investing.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More Choices, More Risk"The lost nest eggs of Enron's employees are an example of how Americans have changed the way they plan for retirement, and of the influence employers have on the choices they make. A change to worker control?In 1996, total assets in defined contribution pension plans, which are dominated by 401(k) plans, overtook those of traditional pensions. Graph tracking the defined contribution 401(k), employee stock ownership plans and profit-sharing plans, traditional pension plans, and 401(k) since 1985. More saving in 401(k)'sAnnual contributions to 401(k) plans now outpace other ways of saving. Graph tracking the individual retirement accounts and 401(k) since 1985. AVERAGE 401(k) BALANCE Graph tracking the average 401(k) balance for people in different age groups. Figures are for 2000 Too many eggs in one basketIn 1999, 401(k) plans where employers could direct some of employees' contributions to specific investments had a much greater share of assets in company stock, which resulted in less diversified portfolios. Company stockPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 47.6%ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 20.2% Equity fundsPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 30.2ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 48.7 Guaranteed investment contractsPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 10.2ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 10.4 Balanced fundsPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 6.0ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 9.7 Money market fundsPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 4.2ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 6.1 Bond fundsPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 1.4ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 2.7 OtherPARTLY EMPLOYER DIRECTED: 0.4ALL EMPLOYEE DIRECTED: 2.2 Putting stock in G.M.'s 401(k)A number of employers' retirement plans include and sometimes require employees to invest in the company's stock. One such company is General Motors, whose white-collar 401(k) plan covers 100,000 salaried employees. Hereis an example of how that plan might work for an average employee: MONTHLY SALARY: $5,000MONTHLY CONTRIBUTION (10 percent of salary): 500 THE CONTRIBUTIONFor the first 6 percent of salary contributed, each dollar placed in an investment fund must be matched with a dollar in G.M. stock. First 6% of salaryGM STOCK: INVESTMENT$150 FUNDS: $150 INVESTMENT FUNDS: $200 THE MATCHFor every dollar an employee invests in the plan up to the first 6 percent of salary, G.M. adds another 20 cents worth of its own stock. That gives the employee an additional 1.2 percent of salary. The result is: IN STOCK: 4.2%$60 -- MATCH$150 IN FUNDS: 7%$150$200 (Sources: Labor Department; Dartmouth College; National Bureau of Economic Research; Investment Company Institute; Temple University; Employee Benefit Research Institute; General Motors)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (93%); US 401K PLANS (93%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BONDS (73%); CORPORATE CULTURE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); ETHICS (60%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); FMR CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (59%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (59%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%) ENRON CORP 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



620 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE WEEK THAT WAS; 
The Enron Debacle Follows a Now Established Format for Scandal

BYLINE:  By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
To come to life fully, every complex business or political scandal needs certain essential elements. A courageous whistleblower. Shredded or missing documents. Ties to people in power. Pain for the powerless. Offshore accounts are a big plus. And it is almost always the case that regulators failed to act, but promise to fix the problem so it will not happen again.
 Last week, the Enron affair, if it had not already, acquired all these trappings, and more. But plenty of questions remained about exactly what happened, about who was to blame for Enron's spectacular collapse and about the dealings the company had with Washington -- Congress and the White House alike. 

EARLY ALARMS FROM A WHISTLEBLOWER -- Congressional investigators disclosed that Sherron S. Watkins, a vice president at Enron, sent a warning letter in August -- two months before the company announced more than $1 billion in accounting errors -- to Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman. "I am incredibly nervous," Ms. Watkins wrote in her unsigned letter, "that we will implode in a wave of accounting scandals." She also voiced her concerns to the company's auditors at Arthur Andersen, where she used to work.
Mr. Lay ordered Vinson & Elkins, Enron's law firm, to look into the charges; the firm concluded in October that no further investigation was necessary. Documents indicated that Mr. Lay disposed of some Enron stock within days of receiving Ms. Watkins's letter. In October, he was urging Enron employees in a company Web chat to buy shares.

PROBLEMS MOUNT FOR ANDERSEN -- The accounting firm fired David B. Duncan, the partner in charge of Enron's audit, saying that he led "an expedited effort to destroy documents" after he learned that the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating Enron's books. Mr. Duncan told Congressional investigators and Justice Department officials that he was only following orders from Andersen's headquarters in Chicago. Andersen also stripped partners in its Houston office of management responsibilities.
An internal memo surfaced showing that Andersen officials discussed as early as last February whether they should drop Enron as a client. It described officials fretting -- as Ms. Watkins did months later -- about "conflicts of interest" because the company's chief financial officer was being paid to manage private partnerships that kept Enron debt off its books.
Andersen had another worry: whether the large fees that the firm received from Enron for accounting and consulting services -- anticipated then to nearly double to $100 million a year -- might lead to questions about the firm's impartiality in auditing Enron's books.
Some experts suggested that Andersen may not survive the scandal intact.

ESCAPING TAXES -- Enron avoided paying corporate income taxes for four of the last five years, records showed, relying on a variety of techniques, including hundreds of subsidiaries in tax havens like the Cayman Islands. The tax-haven subsidiaries enabled Enron to create partnerships to eliminate taxes. Now, they may hinder efforts by investigators to find the names of other participants in many of the partnerships that Enron established to help keep debt off its books.

POLITICAL CONNECTIONS -- Though the focus last week was on business issues, questions continued to be raised about the Bush administration's ties to Enron. It was reported that Vice President Dick Cheney had intervened for the company with officials in India, hoping to resolve problems with an Enron power project there that has become a white elephant. The White House noted that the Clinton administration had backed the project, too.
The administration also defended the decision by Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's chief economic adviser, to lead an analysis of the possible impact on the economy of Enron's collapse, though he had been a paid consultant to the company before joining the administration. At least 15 high-ranking officials disclosed that they owned Enron stock when they joined the administration.
With Congressional hearings scheduled this week and numerous investigations under way, lawmakers were forced to defend political contributions from Enron. While some of the money was returned, none of the lawmakers involved in the investigations, who as a group received more than $700,000, chose to recuse themselves. 
There was one casualty, far from the Capitol: the top Texas utility regulator, who formerly served as Enron's president in Mexico, resigned under political pressure.

REGULATORS PROMISE REFORMS -- Amid one of the biggest accounting debacles in decades, the chairman of the S.E.C. recommended that the largely self-policed accounting profession be overseen by a group dominated by outside experts. But the proposal by the S.E.C. chairman, Harvey L. Pitt, faced critics who said it would not ensure that auditors remained independent from their clients. TOM REDBURN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); AUDITS (88%); ETHICS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); CORPORATE TAX (60%); INCOME TAX (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VINSON & ELKINS LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (55%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (55%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



621 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2274 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE SYSTEM; 
Web of Safeguards Failed as Enron Fell

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and JEFF GERTH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19 

 BODY:
The system of safeguards that was put in place over the years to protect investors and employees from a catastrophic corporate implosion largely failed to detect or address the problems that felled the Enron Corporation, say regulators, investors, business executives and scholars.
 The breakdown in checks and balances encompassed the company's auditors, lawyers and directors, they say. But it extended to groups monitoring Enron from the outside, like regulators, financial analysts, credit-rating agencies, the media and Congress, which in the coming week will open a blizzard of hearings into the company's downfall.. 
 The company's demise seems sure to bring not just legislative changes but sweeping reviews by regulators, accounting and law firms and corporate boards, all in search of how to assure that investors, employees and other constituencies can have faith in what companies tell them.
In Enron's case, the questions extend to the political influence wielded by the company. But increasingly the focus has turned to the entire framework of legislation, regulation and self-governance in which it operated. 
"This was a massive failure in the governance system," said Robert E. Litan, director of economic studies at the Brookings Institution, the research organization. "You can look at the system as a series of concentric circles, from management to directors and the audit committee to regulators and analysts and so forth. This was like a nuclear meltdown where the core melted through all the layers."
It could be months before criminal, civil and Congressional investigations unearth all the facts of Enron's collapse, and there is likely to be plenty of blame to go around.
But much of the early attention has focused on the performance of Enron's accounting firm, Arthur Andersen, whose primary function was to assure that the company was accurately and completely disclosing its financial results and condition.
At the back of Enron's last annual report were two statements from Arthur Andersen. One attested to Arthur Andersen's opinion that Enron's internal accounting system "was adequate to provide reasonable assurance as to the reliability of financial statements." The other stated its opinion that Enron's financial reports "present fairly, in all material respects, the financial condition" of the company and its subsidiaries. The statements -- a version of which appears in the annual reports of all healthy publicly traded companies -- amounted to a Good Housekeeping Seal of Approval for Enron's books.
Arthur Andersen may have had reason to view Enron through a flattering lens, given its symbiotic relationship with the company, one sure to be examined in depth in the corporate autopsy. At the same time that it was acting as Enron's auditor, it was seeking and getting lucrative consulting work from Enron, mirroring a trend among the five big accounting firms. 
Andersen was also successfully lobbying against the Securities and Exchange Commission's effort two years ago to limit just that type of dual role; some regulators felt it created a conflict of interest by raising questions about whether an auditor would challenge the management of a company from which it sought more business.
Moreover, Enron turned over to Andersen some responsibility for its internal bookkeeping, blurring a fundamental division of responsibilities that companies employ to assure the honesty and completeness of their financial figures. Further obscuring the line between an independent auditor and corporate management, many of Enron's financial executives had moved there from Andersen.
Other safeguards had little effect. When Andersen was subject to a peer review of its general auditing practices last year under the industry's self-regulation program, its competitor Deloitte & Touche gave it a clean bill of health.
In the end, Enron was forced to restate earnings for the last five years by nearly $600 million, mocking Andersen's assurances that the original numbers were complete and accurate. Questions raised in a whistleblower letter made public this week suggest that more reported earnings will have to be re-examined as the company and its creditors unravel the web of partnerships it set up to carry much of the company's debt. Enron dismissed Andersen as its auditor this week. 
Arthur Andersen's chief executive, Joseph F. Berardino, has defended his firm's conduct and denied wrongdoing.

The Government
From a government and regulatory perspective, Enron, as one of its executives said late last year, thrived in a "regulatory black hole" that the company labored to create.
At the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Enron lobbied in the 1990's for a rule that exempted trading in electricity contracts from reporting requirements.
The lack of scrutiny by the energy regulatory commission was one reason that William A. Rainier, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, told Congress in 2000 that he was "deeply concerned" about a bill that would exempt energy trading from his commission's review because dealers in energy derivatives had no other regulator. His objections were largely ignored, and the exemption, heavily backed by Enron, became law.
The 2000 law built on a 1993 ruling by the futures commission that exempted energy trades. The chairwoman at the time was Wendy L. Gramm. Soon after she left the commission, Ms. Gramm became a well-paid director of Enron.
Because Enron was publicly traded, its financial reports were subject to scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission, at least in theory. In practice, the commission has enough staff to review corporate reports only on a limited basis, and Enron's have not gotten a thorough vetting by the commission at least since 1997, people familiar with the commission's work said. 
Because one of its main businesses was buying and selling contracts to supply electricity to utility companies, Enron was required to file quarterly reports with the energy commission. A review of the reports last year by The New York Times revealed inconsistencies in the way Enron subsidiaries accounted for some transactions. But commission officials acknowledged that they did not closely examine the Enron filings.
Enron was not shy in making its views known on Capitol Hill, at the White House and among the regulatory agencies -- or in spreading campaign contributions around to Republicans and Democrats alike to ensure it would get a hearing. Since 1989, Enron has given $5.95 million to the two parties, with 74 percent going to Republicans, according to figures compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics, a watchdog group.
"Money allowed the Enron leadership to come to town," said Charles A. Bowsher, who as comptroller general of the United States during the Reagan administration led the General Accounting Office, Congress's auditing and investigative agency. "Everyone says they didn't get anything, that the secretary of the treasury turned them down, that the secretary of commerce turned them down," said Mr. Bowsher, who himself worked for Arthur Andersen, decades ago. "But if you look back over the last five years, what they did get was no oversight."

The Boardroom
The board of directors has ultimate responsibility for any company's performance and conduct. Within the board, special responsibility falls on the outside directors, whose job is to cast a skeptical eye on management and to oversee issues that speak to the company's credibility, including its financial audits. Enron's board consists of Kenneth L. Lay, the chairman and chief executive, and 14 nonmanagement members. The company's former chief executive, Jeffrey K. Skilling, was a member until he resigned in August.
The close ties between management and the outside directors also raise questions about the board's independence. Twice in 1999 -- on June 28 and on Oct. 12 -- the board approved a waiver of the company's conflict of interest rules to allow Andrew S. Fastow, the chief financial officer, to set up private partnerships that would do business with Enron, according to a review by Enron's law firm, Vinson & Elkins.
Those partnerships and others are at the heart of the inquiry into whether company executives profited at the expense of shareholders and employees. Enron has estimated that Mr. Fastow made more than $30 million from the two partnerships set up in 1999. The partnerships masked Enron's mounting debts.
Enron's outside directors were among the the best paid. Enron has also made donations to causes associated with some directors. For example, Enron and Mr. Lay, through foundations they control, gave nearly $600,000 to the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center over the last five years. The center's president, John Mendelsohn, and its president emeritus, Charles A. Lemaistre, are on Enron's board.

The Legal Advice
A company's outside lawyers can also be an important check on corporate misbehavior. Enron was the largest client of Vinson & Elkins, one of the largest law firms in Houston.
The ties between the firm and its client were close. James V. Derrick Jr., the executive vice president and general counsel of Enron, joined the company from the firm. As Enron grew bigger and more sophisticated, the firm's billings rose substantially.
The firm gave advice to Enron about the partnerships the company was setting up as it remade itself into a trading company in the late 1990's. It was asked by Enron to review those partnerships after Mr. Lay received a letter from a senior Enron executive, Sherron S. Watkins, raising questions about the company's financial structure.
In her letter to Mr. Lay, Ms. Watkins specifically suggested that the company not use Vinson & Elkins to review the issues she was raising, noting the overlapping roles the law firm would then be playing. "Can't use V&E due to conflict -- they provided some true sale opinions on some of the deals," she wrote. 
When the firm reported back to Enron in October, it concluded that the issues raised by Ms. Watkins "do not, in our judgment, warrant a further widespread investigation by independent counsel and auditors."
Only later, as the company began to collapse, did a special committee of the board hire another firm, Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, to review the company's structure.
Vinson & Elkins said it had acted properly at all times.
"In a very general sense the law firm is highly confident, very confident that everything it did in its representation of Enron and any of its engagements was performed to the highest of ethical and professional standards," said Joe Householder, a spokesman for Vinson & Elkins.

The Financial Seers
Enron's collapse has focused new attention on the Wall Street analysts, whose judgments about stocks are widely assumed to be driven as much by a desire to help their firms win investment banking business from the companies they follow as to give investors sound guidance. 
Not only were most of the big Wall Street firms bullish on Enron over the past few years as its stock went up, but they also kept the faith as cracks started to appear in Enron's foundations last summer and fall.
Analysts at firms like Goldman Sachs, Lehman Brothers, Salomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg recommended the stock to investors well into the fall, after Enron's problems started to become public.
Early last year, Jim Chanos, president of Kynikos Associates, an investment firm that sells stocks short -- that is, it bets that a stock is overvalued and will fall -- decided to bet against Enron. To assure himself that he had not misjudged the company, he invited analysts from the big firms to come in and tell him why he was wrong.
"It's not that they didn't see what we saw," Mr. Chanos said. "They either chose to come to the wrong conclusion because it suited them for a variety of other reasons, or to put their faith in management."
Some experts have leveled criticism at the credit-rating agencies, which review the bonds and other debt securities issues by companies. One issue is that the companies being rated pay the agencies -- Moody's Investor Service, Standard & Poor's and Fitch are the biggest -- for their services. But the biggest problem, analysts say, is that the agencies have not had a good record of scouting out problems before they become apparent to investors. 
In Enron's case, it was only the two months before the company entered bankruptcy last fall that the agencies were threatening to deem the company a serious credit risk by dropping it to a below-investment grade rating. 
All the big agencies have defended their record on Enron. But the credit-ratings analysts, like their counterparts who rate stocks, are already coming under increased scrutiny.

The Reporters
While the press took note of Enron's high political profile and ties to the Bush campaign in 2000, the company's financial profile in the media was largely flattering until last year. In March, an article in Fortune by Bethany McLean delved into the unanswered questions about the sources of the company's profits. 
Her article was published after Enron's spokesman and Mr. Fastow flew to New York to meet with two top Fortune editors in an unsuccessful effort to cast the company in a more favorable light.
But not until after Mr. Skilling's unexpected resignation in August did a sharply questioning tone become the rule in Enron coverage. 
"I don't know if the press could have broken through" the maze of Enron's hidden finances, said Michael Useem, a professor of management at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. 
But, Mr. Useem added, "a normal dose of skepticism might have been more in order."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur Andersen's chief executive, Joseph F. Berardino, who has defended his firm's conduct, at an Enron bankruptcy hearing. (David Scull/Bloomberg News)(pg. 26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); AUDITS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); TRENDS (76%); LAWYERS (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ETHICS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); APPROVALS (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LOBBYING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); AUTOPSIES (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ETHICS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (55%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GERTH, JEFF 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



622 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: WORKERS; 
Workers Feel Pain of Layoffs And Added Sting of Betrayal

BYLINE:  By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 19 

 BODY:
This is not just hard times, not just one more company to shut its doors in a sagging economy and leave employees with unpaid mortgages and uncertain retirements. It is not even simple greed, not merely another boss who sacrificed people for profits, who moved a plant to Mexico to avoid paying minimum wage.
 This, said some of the 4,000 laid-off workers of Enron, was a betrayal by executives who hid the corporation's crumbling finances and fattened their bank accounts while their employees' jobs and retirement funds -- built from Enron stock -- disappeared. 
 "What about us?" said Sandra Stone, 51, an executive assistant who lost a $49,000-a-year job and Enron stock rewards that were valued at $150,000 at one point.
As the corporation floundered, executives told workers it had never been more solid, said Ms. Stone, who said she routinely worked 12-hour days and skipped lunch. The long hours proved her loyalty to Enron, she said, and the overtime pay made life better for her and her 71-year-old mother, who lives with her in a two-bedroom apartment in Houston. 
"They kept telling us, 'Don't sell, don't sell, it's going to go up.' And they issued more options," Ms. Stone said of the stock. She said that Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman, once told employees, " 'In a year or two, we'll be laughing at this.'
"No," she said, "we won't."
Instead, as the Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission and Congress investigate the company's business practices, thousands of employees scramble for new jobs in a difficult economy. They say they may be forced to sell houses and they wonder how they will pay medical bills.
Mark Lindquist, a Web designer who lost a $56,000-a-year job and all his benefits, has to figure out how he can pay for therapy for his autistic son. "The upper-level executives got their money," Mr. Lindquist said. "I was let go by voice mail," he said.
Clyde Johnson, who made $70,000 a year as a trouble-shooter in information and technology, is not sure how long he can keep up the $1,245 monthly payments on the home he shares with his 11-year-old son. "I'm a single parent," Mr. Johnson, 33, said. "The house is beige brick, on a cul-de-sac, with a nice backyard. It's a dream house for us." 
When the layoff came, he said, "They told me I had 30 minutes" to clear out his desk. "Wrap your life up, and get out," he said.
Some longtime Enron employees lost hundreds of thousands of dollars as the value of stock they accumulated in Enron's boom times tumbled in a period when they were not allowed to sell it. Some lost a precious weekly paycheck and crucial health benefits. One employee's wife has had two strokes over the past two weeks, and the family has no way to pay the bills.
For others, Enron's collapse affected solidly middle-class lives in smaller ways. Enron was paying an employee's business school tuition so she could make her life better. Another woman worried that her daughter could no longer go to ice skating classes because of the cost.
Enron was the machine that powered their dreams, big and small. It would have been different if it had been one of those giant, sluggish companies where some employees could go at half-speed and hide in the bureaucracy, said workers here. But at Enron, employees earned their paychecks or they were let go. 
Employees called it "rank and yank."
In her six years with the company, Ms. Stone got up at 4:15 a.m. and was routinely at work by 6 a.m. "You either got with the system or you were out the door," said Ms. Stone, who did not consider it oppressive. 
"You could feel the excitement at 6 a.m." Ms. Stone said. "You walk in the door and got energized, all those creative juices flowing. You worked with the best, the most brilliant. It was a great, great company."
There was also a feeling of invincibility. The company backed political campaigns, paid millions of dollars to charities and hung its name on skyscrapers and a sports stadium. It was not unusual, before the 2000 presidential election, to look up and see George W. Bush in the building, Ms. Stone said. 
"Enron bred arrogance," she said. One executive, she said, had $56,000 on his expense account for one month. She worried that such extravagances were bad for the company, Ms. Stone said, but it was Enron, and Enron was untouchable.
Mr. Lindquist, 39, who said he remembered a feeling a security when he joined Enron eight years ago, put it this way: "You can't crush a company this big, this strong. They were into everything." 
It seemed to be more than just business. The company bosses talked about respect and integrity, and passed out paperweights that said so. 
"We put our trust in C.E.O.'s," Mr. Lindquist said. "It was a personal thing. You got to see the company grow," in part from your own hard work. All that was a myth, he said. 
Mr. Lindquist is not a wealthy man. His wife, Kim, cannot work because she needs to stay at home with their autistic son, Garrett, 3. Mr. Lindquist's paycheck and some small savings are all that stand between them and foreclosure on their home. "We don't know how we'll pay our bills," he said. With his benefits gone, too, he does not know how long the family can continue to pay for therapies that are important to their son's development.
Mr. Lindquist is searching for work, for a new start, but with a nagging sense of betrayal. 
"I don't think I'll ever trust another company," Mr. Lindquist said.
People say that all the time when they lose a job, but for Enron employees, it rings with conviction. 
Mr. Johnson tried to do everything right. He served 10 years in the Air Force, training in computers and technology. Mr. Johnson went to work at a solid company in Houston, so he could make a good home for his son, Courtney, whom he raises alone. He bought a house in Katy, far from the noise and crime of Houston, and when a job opened at Enron two years ago, it seemed like just one more correct, solid decision to make.
"I left a good job, but I was excited, and the money was better," Mr. Johnson said. He had grown up in Houston, and Enron was more than a paycheck. "It had such strong values," he said.
He moved from department to department, and the work was demanding. But the workers seemed to relish the pressure. "We built this place," they liked to say. 
"Then they threw us all out," Mr. Johnson said. His son is old enough to know they are in trouble. "He knows not to ask for things, now," Mr. Johnson said. "He's a big boy." 
Now he, Ms. Stone, Mr. Lindquist and thousands of others are competing in a job market where Enron has won little good will -- the company had hired many of the city's and the industry's most talented people. "Enron is not a good name in Houston right now," Mr. Johnson said. 
But even if Enron is mostly just a hulk of a business now, it did one thing for its employees: It trained them to do their jobs at a level above the average. 
"I know I can outwork those 36-year-olds," Ms. Stone said. "I'll work hard again." 
Even as federal investigators move to try and determine how this mess happened, some employees are still loyal to the company, still trying to squeeze out one last deal. They pleaded with reporters not to write anything bad about Enron. 
Remembrances of Enron seem to circle back to the same thing, that it was more than work, more than a paycheck. People use words like "family" and do not care how corny it sounds. They talk about Enron as if it were a stern but beloved uncle who passed out nickels only when the chore was done just right.
"But it wasn't personal," said Mr. Lindquist, of his relationship with the company. He wanted to believe it was, but it was not. "It was just business."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I was let go by voice mail," said Mark Lindquist of Enron. Now he must figure out how to pay for therapy for his autistic son, Garrett, 3. (Brett Coomer for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Kim Lindquist, whose husband, Mark, recently lost his job at Enron, watched the company's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, on television last week at the Lindquist home in LaPorte, Tex. Among the souvenirs of Mr. Lindquist's years at Enron are rocks given to employees as a motivational tool. (Photographs by Brett Coomer for The New York Times); Clyde Johnson at an employment office in Houston set up specifically for former Enron employees. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); DISMISSALS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ETHICS (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); AUTISM (50%) ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



623 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 4849 words

HEADLINE: About Face 

BYLINE:  By Adam Shatz; Adam Shatz is a writer who lives in New York City.

 BODY:
One Sunday evening early in the fall, Glenn C. Loury arrived at the Charles Hotel in Cambridge, Mass., where a group of distinguished black intellectuals, including Cornel West, Lani Guinier and Henry Louis Gates Jr., was gathering to discuss the Sept. 11 attacks. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, the keynote speaker, had flown in to talk about possible shuttle diplomacy with the Taliban. Loury, an economist at Boston University who first achieved prominence as one of the nation's leading black conservatives in the Reagan years, was there on a diplomatic mission of his own: to mend the rift that has long separated him from liberal blacks like Jackson. He knew he might elicit more than a few hostile glances. "I've been trying to figure out who you were for the longest time," one woman said coldly when they were introduced, according to Loury. But he decided to brave it.
 Shortly before the meeting, Loury walked into a conference room where Jackson was chatting with Gates. As Loury shook hands with Jackson -- a man he had taken to task in print throughout the 1980's -- Gates effusively praised Loury's book "The Anatomy of Racial Inequality," which will be published early next month by Harvard University Press. In it, Loury makes a striking departure from the self-help themes of his earlier work, defending affirmative action and denouncing "colorblindness" as a euphemism for indifference to the fate of black Americans. 
 Jackson said to Gates: "This man is smart. Whatever his politics, he's always been smart." When the conversation 
turned to the Middle East, Loury sheepishly reminded Jackson of an article he wrote more than 15 years ago in Commentary attacking him for embracing Yasir Arafat.
"You probably don't remember the piece," Loury said.
"Oh, yes I do," Jackson fired back.
"I looked him in the eye," Loury recalled a couple of weeks later, "and said: 'I really wish I hadn't written that. It was a mistake, and I really regret it.' Jackson didn't say anything directly in response to it, but during his formal presentation he made a point of singling me out. He said: 'To say that Glenn Loury isn't black because he disagrees with me, well that's just stupid. We can't afford to leave brilliant minds like that by the wayside."' 
The next day, Loury e-mailed Charles Ogletree Jr., the Harvard Law professor who had organized the meeting. "I came close to not showing -- for a variety of invalid reasons that have more to do with my scarred psyche than with anything in the real world," he wrote. "You should know that I was deeply gratified by my reception on Sunday. Jesse was very generous. (I guess my 'political rehabilitation' is more or less complete now!)"
"That meeting was the defining moment for Glenn," his friend Orlando Patterson, a Harvard sociologist, later said. Or, as another scholar put it to me, "Glenn is finally able to walk into a room full of black people who don't all hate him."
Glenn Loury beamed as he told me this story in the backyard of his Brookline, Mass., home, where he lives with his wife, Linda, a labor economist at Tufts, and their two young sons. It was a crisp New England afternoon in early October; the leaves had turned a brilliant red and yellow. Loury's house -- listed, he notes casually, in The National Registry of Historic Places -- is a large Federal-style structure built in 1854 by Amos Adams Lawrence, a wealthy abolitionist.
Loury, 53, is a tall, stocky man with a high forehead and a graying goatee that seems to add little age to a face that will probably always look youthful. On this afternoon, he was wearing a sweatshirt that said "Professor Man" -- a superhero he invented to amuse his sons. At once polished and insecure, he rarely misses a chance to mention when someone important has found him "brilliant" or "smart." 
The quality of Loury's mind has never been in question. What his critics have expressed doubts about is his judgment. His career as a public intellectual has been a long and occasionally reckless journey of self-discovery and reinvention, a dizzying series of political transformations and personal crises that have left him with more ex-friends than friends. He is both a genuine maverick thinker and a shrewd political operator, and therefore a source of fascination and bewilderment, even to himself. 
Loury was reared by working-class parents on the South Side of Chicago, where the color line was an inescapable fact of life. He vividly remembers being chased by a group of white kids when he rode his bike across that line. Loury fathered two children out of wedlock while he was still a teenager, and he dropped out of college and got a job at a printing plant. But before his eight-hour night shift he took courses at Southeast Junior College, and from there he won a scholarship to Northwestern University, where he studied mathematics and economics. He did his graduate work in economics at M.I.T., under the supervision of the Nobel laureate Robert M. Solow.
In his 1976 dissertation, Loury pioneered the study of "social capital" -- the informal relationships and connections that, as much as money or brains, pave the way for success in the labor market. As long as whites enjoyed superior access to "social capital," he predicted, racial inequalities would continue to plague American society long after the end of legal discrimination. Loury's argument, coming 12 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, had profound implications for public policy. For if racial inequality is grounded in something more diffuse, and less amenable to remedy, than legal discrimination, how can it be combated? Is it the responsibility of the government, or of black people themselves? 
As America's inner cities fell prey to a scourge of violence, drug addiction and out-of-wedlock births in the late 1970's, Loury came to believe that the greatest threat to racial equality was no longer the "enemy without" -- white racism -- but rather the "enemy within": problems inherent in the black community. Unless this "enemy" was confronted head-on, he argued, blacks would fail to achieve lasting social and economic equality. This was not his only pointed challenge to what he called the civil rights orthodoxy; Loury was also a critic of affirmative action and an outspoken supply-sider, promoting solutions to ghetto poverty rooted in entrepreneurialism rather than government aid. 
In 1982, at the age of 33, Loury became the first tenured black professor in the Harvard economics department. Despite his sterling qualifications, he immediately began worrying about what his colleagues -- his white colleagues -- really thought of him. Did they know how smart he was? Or did they think he was a token? Before long, he was on the verge of what he calls a "psychological breakdown." As he remembers: "I did not carry that burden well. One wants to feel that one is standing there on one's own. One does not want to feel one is being patronized." In 1984, he moved over to the John F. Kennedy School of Government, which had been assiduously courting him almost from the moment he arrived.
"Glenn had no doubt that he was smart," Patterson says. "But I think he was always doubtful as to whether the economics department had hired him because of his Afro-American connections. It was that anxiety about what his colleagues really thought that led him to doubt the value of affirmative action." His criticisms of affirmative action reflected these insecurities, emphasizing the stigma it imposed on people like himself. 
Loury seemed to relish his chosen role as a thorn in the side of the civil rights establishment. In 1984, he delivered a paper in Washington at a meeting of the National Urban Coalition. The room, Loury recalls, was full of movement veterans, including Coretta Scott King; John Jacob, the National Urban League president; and Walter Fauntroy, former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus. In a speech calculated to provoke his audience, Loury began by declaring, "The civil rights movement is over." Blacks, he argued, were at risk of being dragged down by problems that could not simply be laid at the door of white racism. The spread of a vast underclass, the poor performance of black students, the explosion of early unwed pregnancies among blacks and the alarming rates of black-on-black crime -- here was evidence, he said, of failures in black society itself. It was time, he said, for blacks to assume responsibility for their own problems; blaming racism for their ills might be emotionally gratifying, but it was also morally obtuse.
When he was finished, Loury recalls, Coretta Scott King wept.
Word of the brilliant, contrarian black economist from the South Side of Chicago traveled fast. Conservative magazines solicited articles from him; The New Republic published his thoughts on race under the title "A New American Dilemma." He befriended William Bennett and William Kristol, his colleague at the Kennedy School. He sat at President Reagan's table at a White House dinner, and he socialized with Clarence Thomas. (Although the two no longer speak, Loury still keeps a picture in his office of himself with Thomas.) While his liberal colleagues were boycotting South Africa, Loury traveled there in 1986 on a trip financed by the white diamond magnate Harry Oppenheimer. 
Loury's alliance with the right was rooted in part in his deep aversion to the intellectual conformity he felt the left imposed on black intellectuals; the right offered not only prestige, resources and acceptance but also, it seemed, the freedom to speak his mind. (He was also partly motivated, like many rebels, by seething class resentment: he says that as the son of a low-level civil servant, he felt "contempt" for middle-class civil rights leaders.) But during this period, Loury says, he continued to see himself as "a race man." Unlike some other black conservatives, he never called for abolishing the welfare state, and he rejected the idea that America had finished paying its debts to its black citizens.
Loury says he wanted to forge an intellectual middle ground, but his willingness -- indeed, his eagerness -- to assail black leaders like Jackson and to align himself with the Reagan administration made him persona non grata in liberal black circles. He was called an Uncle Tom, a "black David Stockman" and a "pathetic mascot of the right." 
"It seemed like a classic sellout case to me," remembers Patterson, who went 10 years without seeing Loury. Loury's Uncle Alfred -- a proud race man, a steelworker and the patriarch of the family -- thought I was basically selling out to the white man," Loury recalls. 
The hostility of fellow blacks would eventually take its toll, but at the time Loury took pride in their scorn. While enjoying considerable patronage in the form of corporate consulting fees and grants from conservative foundations, he cast himself -- and was portrayed by his white conservative patrons -- as a brave dissident who rejected the "loyalty trap" of reflexive racial solidarity. 
And yet in his personal life, Loury continued to feel the pull of race. At the same time as he was lunching with fellows from the American Enterprise Institute, he began to immerse himself in a black urban world much like the neighborhood in which he grew up. He started playing pickup chess on tabletops in Dudley Square, an African-American commercial district in Boston. There, his views on social policy were unknown, and he was welcomed, not ostracized, by working-class black men -- the kinds of men he had known on the South Side, the kind of man he nearly became while working at the printing plant. "There was a feeling for me that I was really blacker than a lot of these liberal black intellectuals who were denouncing me as a traitor to my race," he remembers. 
As a black critic of racial liberalism, Loury rose rapidly in Republican public-policy circles. In March 1987, he was offered a position as under secretary of education to William Bennett. On June 1, 1987, however, Loury's life veered off-track. He withdrew his nomination, citing "personal reasons"; three days later, those personal reasons became public: Loury's mistress, a 23-year-old Smith College graduate who had been living, at his expense, in what Boston papers called a "love nest," brought assault charges against him. (She later dropped all charges.) 
Loury's meltdown had just begun. After the scandal, his trips to Dudley Square became all-nighters. He was staying out on the street until 2 a.m. and venturing into "some really rough spaces." He began freebasing cocaine and picking up women, spending much of his time in public housing projects. "It was pathological," he says. "I was castigating the moral failings of African-American life even as I was deeply caught up in it." All the while, he managed to maintain appearances at Harvard -- according to colleagues, he was lecturing more brilliantly than ever -- and to keep his other life a secret from his wife.
"I was bridging the extremities of two worlds," he recalls. "Nobody at the Kennedy School could have known about this other world, and nobody in that world where I was a familiar character because I came regularly with a pocketful of money could have imagined the sophistication and power of the society of which I was a part. So you achieve a kind of uniqueness moving back and forth between those worlds. It was fun. There was a sense of power. There was a real rush. You weren't just breaking the rules. Rules didn't have anything to do with you. This was new territory."
In late November 1987, Loury was arrested on charges of cocaine possession. After spending several months in the hospital and in a halfway house, he was released, and in January 1989, his wife gave birth to the first of their two sons. Loury's Harvard colleagues implored him to stay, but the scandal haunted him. In 1991, he left for Boston University, which offered him a tenured position and a salary Harvard couldn't match. For the next year, he devoted himself to his research in theoretical economics, which had languished for years, and "got out of the race business." 
Loury's conservative friends stood by him, and Loury remained loyal. During the Anita Hill hearings, he prayed over the phone with Clarence Thomas. In 1995, he founded the Center for New Black Leadership with a group of conservative black intellectuals that included his friend Shelby Steele, the essayist.
"We were fellow travelers, Shelby and I," Loury recalls wistfully. "We were partners in an enterprise. We fancied ourselves men of ideas who had found our way to this position out of our willingness to break ranks. It's a lonely business, this black conservative stuff."
In the wake of his arrest, however, Loury had experienced a personal transformation that was to have far-reaching intellectual consequences. Five months after beating his cocaine addiction, Loury was dipped into a pool of water at a ceremony in Dorchester, Mass., and was born again. He started going to church regularly and was, he says, "getting caught up in the rapture of these services where people were falling out onto the floor." The people who forgave him his sins -- his family, his fellow churchgoers and his wife -- were black, and Loury did not fail to notice this. According to Patterson, "Religion was Glenn's entry back into the black community." 
"The experience did nothing to my politics," Loury insists, but the "processing of my own frailties" that it engendered, that did have an effect. Now that he was among "the fallen," he found it difficult to keep telling people -- his people -- to "just straighten up, for crying out loud," as he had been for years. It struck him, he says, as "unbelievably shallow, spiritually, and politically problematic." In one of the more revealing passages of his new book, he criticizes the way successful blacks sometimes develop an "antipathy" toward the black poor: "If only THEY would get their acts together, then people like ME wouldn't have such a problem."'
After his brush with the law, Loury became increasingly alarmed by the right's punitive rhetoric on issues ranging from racial profiling to the criminal justice system and wary of the ways in which, as a black man, he was being used as a screen for an antiblack agenda. He was horrified by Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein's 1994 book, "The Bell Curve," a social Darwinist tract arguing that black poverty was rooted in inferior intelligence. He was even more appalled by "The End of Racism," the lurid assault on "black failure" written by Dinesh D'Souza when he was a fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.
Not only did his conservative friends not share his rage; they were taken aback by it and tried, he says, to muzzle him. Commentary, which had welcomed Loury's writing in the past, refused to publish his critique of "The Bell Curve." And though The Weekly Standard ran Loury's caustic review of D'Souza's book, it also published a lengthy response from the author. In 1995, Loury resigned from the American Enterprise Institute over its support of D'Souza. 
In a column called "What's Wrong With the Right," published in the January-February 1996 issue of The American Enterprise journal, Loury wrote that while "liberal methods" on questions of race were certainly flawed, "liberals sought to heal the rift in our body politic engendered by the institution of chattel slavery, and their goal of securing racial justice in America was, and is, a noble one. I cannot say with confidence that conservatism as a movement is much concerned to pursue that goal."
"The thing about Glenn is that he was always a race man," says Anthony Appiah, a Harvard professor of philosophy and Afro-American studies. "I suspect that the Reaganites he was consorting with never really knew that."
Loury's break with the right became final in the fall of 1996 during the battle over the California Civil Rights Initiative, also known as Proposition 209. Aggressively promoted by Ward Connerly, a black conservative member of the University of California's Board of Regents, Proposition 209 sought to eliminate race- and sex-based preferences in state contracting, hiring and college admissions. The Center for New Black Leadership wanted Loury, the group's chairman, to publicly endorse the referendum, the culmination of the right's efforts to ban affirmative action. Loury expressed tepid support for 209 but refused to lobby on behalf of it.
"We're the Center for New Black Leadership, and we will be leading no black people if we make this our issue," he told his associates. But the board disagreed, and Loury resigned.
A few days later, Steele phoned him. "Where do you stand on race?" Loury says Steele asked him. "It's as if you're a racial loyalist here. I thought we all agreed."
"No, Shelby and I didn't agree," Loury says now. "I was always aware that, whatever I thought about race, I'm still black. Shelby's position. . . . " Loury starts to laugh. "I was about to say, Shelby's position was that we had to completely transcend race, though I can imagine saying those words, too. But my heart wasn't in them, whereas he really meant it. How could it have been otherwise? His mother was a white woman. His wife is a white woman. When he looked at his own children's racial identity and wondered about an oppressive world that would say to those children, 'Choose sides' -- a dilemma I'd never faced -- Shelby's angle of vision was really quite different from my own. So in all honesty, it was I who betrayed him, not he who betrayed me." The two men have not spoken since that conversation. (Steele declined to be interviewed for this article.)
Writing in The New Republic on the eve of the referendum's passage, Loury declared that it was "flawed both in letter and spirit," and went on to excoriate "colorblind absolutists" and to argue that "some 'discrimination' against whites" may well be "the inevitable -- and defensible -- consequence of measures to identify and limit discrimination against blacks." 
"There came a point when I couldn't look my own people in the face," Loury says, explaining his evolution. "Everyone else had a place to go. Some would go to Jerusalem. Others would go to Dublin. You see the metaphor. Where would I go? I came back to Chicago and talked to my uncle about what I was doing. There was a reproachful look in his eyes, a sadness. He said to me, 'We could only send one, and we sent you, and I don't see us in anything you do.' Eventually I realized I couldn't live like that."
So where did Loury end up? Not -- and this is what makes him distinctive -- as a traditional liberal. Despite his new appreciation of racial solidarity, Loury remains fiercely independent. His outlook today is an unclassifiable, pragmatic blend of entrepreneurialism, black nationalism, Christian faith and social egalitarianism. Though he has relaxed his opposition to affirmative action, he quibbles with the way it is practiced, recommending instead what he calls developmental affirmative action -- programs intended to improve minority performance while upholding common standards of evaluation. It's a lonely position that infuriates his former allies on the right without endearing him to black liberals like Henry Louis Gates Jr. and Cornel West, who recently threatened to resign from Harvard if Lawrence H. Summers, the school's new president, failed to issue a sweeping defense of affirmative action. The private Loury is as hard to pin down as the public intellectual: an affluent homeowner in a largely white suburb who retains a deep respect for the Nation of Islam; a churchgoer who jogs while listening to gangsta rap on his Walkman. 
"The Anatomy of Racial Inequality," based on lectures he gave in 2000 at the Dubois Institute at Harvard, offers a bracing philosophical defense of his new views. Returning to an argument he first presented in his dissertation, Loury argues that blacks are no longer held back by "discrimination in contract" -- discrimination in the job market -- but rather by "discrimination in contact," informal and entirely legal patterns of socializing and networking that tend to exclude blacks and thereby perpetuate racial inequality. At the root of this unofficial discrimination, he says, is "stigma," a subtle yet pervasive form of antiblack bias. According to Loury, stigma explains why many white Americans, as well as some blacks, view the imprisonment of 1.2 million African-American men as a "communal disgrace" rather than as "an American tragedy." 
Of course, Loury himself once perceived the plight of the underclass in similar terms. As he wrote in 1985, "Whatever fault may be placed upon racism in America, the responsibility for the behavior of black youngsters lies squarely on the shoulders of the black community itself." In his new book, by contrast, Loury asserts that the miseries of the ghetto can "only be seen as a domestic product . . . for which the entire nation bears a responsibility." 
For Loury's former friends on the right, he is guilty of nothing short of apostasy. Writing in National Review in 1999 "with a heavy heart," Norman Podhoretz -- an ex-leftist who achieved eternal notoriety among liberals by publicly changing his mind -- accused Loury of "having fallen, or perhaps deliberately leaped, into 'the loyalty trap' he once worked so hard to escape. . . . The loss to his fellow blacks, and to the rest of us as well, is incalculable." 
Loury's change of mind has been greeted by liberals with considerable skepticism. Loury's account of his defection was "too pat to be true, especially for a man of Mr. Loury's considerable intelligence," Brent Staples wrote in The New York Times. "Race-baiting, Willie Hortonizing and homophobia were part of the package from the start and actually in fuller use in the 80's than now. That Mr. Loury failed to detect a 'conservative party line' on race while cozying up to the Reagan administration -- and as a star on the conservative lecture circuit -- is simply implausible."
It's a fair point. After all, Loury was always sensitive to the left's rigidities on race. Why did it take him so long to rebel against those of the right? 
I asked him this directly, and he said: "Why the 90's and not the 80's? I'm going to give you an honest answer. I'd say, You're dealing with a 35-year-old kid in 1983." It's not an especially satisfying reply. After all, this "35-year-old kid" was a tenured professor at Harvard. Loury's conversion narrative is compelling stuff, but there's something missing. The story fails to explain why he began to notice things that were perhaps there all along. It fails to explain how the disapproval of blacks went from being a badge of pride to one of shame.
You get the sense that the new Loury would just as soon not be reminded of the old Loury. As he admitted to me in an e-mail message, "The ghost or shadow of the 'old' Loury follows me, and I can still detect people reacting to this presence." 
Though he has to a certain extent ingratiated himself with the black intellectual circles that once shunned him, the reaction of many blacks to his new incarnation remains one of caution. "There are still people who won't forgive Glenn for sleeping with the enemy," Patterson says. 
Loury's embrace of his black identity is striking and, to some of his black friends, a touch overeager. "Glenn is into sports now," says Patterson, who formed a close friendship with Loury again in the mid-90's. "He's into basketball. He's developed a sort of pride in things black, and a sensitivity about any negative comments made about the group. I became a little concerned when Glenn started listening to gangsta rap. I thought there was a little overcompensation involved." 
It's hard not to conclude that Loury's intellectual positions today reflect shifting personal needs as much as shifting intellectual convictions. As Patterson points out, "Glenn had argued so powerfully against affirmative action that the shift in position struck me more as a signal to the black community that he wanted back in, rather than a strongly intellectual change of heart."
Loury, for his part, doesn't disagree: "I don't know if I want to concede the point to Orlando, that there's no intellectual substance to the change of mind. But I think that's a pretty astute observation on his part." Still, he says, "as long as I can give a more-or-less cogent account of what the current position is, I don't worry about the insincerity problem." When I asked him why he constantly changes his mind, he fell silent, pounding his fist on his desk. Leaning back in his chair, he stared quietly at the ceiling. Nearly a minute passed. This was the first time I had seen him at a loss for words. "There may be something in my personality that doesn't feel comfortable getting along," he finally said -- an answer that nicely omits his equally strong desire to belong.
The question of belonging, of course, is one that all public intellectuals face, but it weighs especially heavily on black intellectuals who write about race. If you're a white college professor, you can float half-formed ideas and say controversial things; that's what you're paid to do. To be a black intellectual in the race debate is to have an audience with expectations, even demands; an audience anxious to know which side you're on. 
You might imagine that the ambiguities of the post-civil-rights era -- in which the problems may be clear but the solutions are not -- would reduce the pressures toward intellectual conformity, but Loury's career suggests that the opposite is true. Debates over affirmative action and reparations are often so polarized as to leave little room for iconoclasts. To dissent, on either side, means you may find yourself in a lonely place, your loyalty -- even your blackness -- in question. 
Throughout our conversations, I had the odd sense that both Loury and I were after the same thing: an understanding of Glenn Loury -- or, more precisely, how the old Loury became the new Loury. He often talks about his past self as if he were someone else, as if the only thing the two Lourys had in common were a body. Loury has been through therapy, and he often talks like a classic analysand, putting himself on the couch and registering genuine bafflement at how he got there. "Friends of mine sometimes have joked to me that the old Loury and the new Loury should have a conversation," he says, chuckling ruefully.
When you spend time with Loury, you feel that he's still sorting out his past, still trying to figure out what has led him away from and toward the embrace of his race. He is incredibly self-conscious, and yet all his introspection has failed to yield any answers that satisfy him. The day after I interviewed him for the first time, we were walking along Commonwealth Avenue, just outside his office. "I feel like I spilled my guts yesterday," he confessed. "But you know, what I said was something of a revelation to me too. Because parts of my life are still a blur to me. I don't have a coherent narrative yet." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Glenn Loury (Sacha Waldman); The rise: Even during his most-right-leaning years, Loury (with Reagan in 1985) considered himself a "race man."; The fall: Loury (entering court with his lawyer) began his downhill slide after he was charged with assault in 1987. (George Rizer/The Boston Globe) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); TALIBAN (72%); TERRORISM (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (52%) BLACKS 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON UNIVERSITY (83%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (75%) LOURY, GLENN C (PROF); JACKSON, JESSE L (REV); SHATZ, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



624 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
Do You Look Best Wearing Envious Green?

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
WHY is Julia Roberts living my life? That question has gnawed at me for years, and I still haven't come up with the answer. Yes, I'm aware that comparing myself to America's Sweetheart is perhaps not the sanest idea, and I admit that I'm not entirely serious. But every so often I wonder why someone of my age and with my eye color, who is also smart and funny, is earning $20 million a film to emote into a camera, while I would consider it a good day if I found $20 in my jeans pocket.
 Comparing oneself to others is both odious and odorous, to paraphrase Shakespeare. But we all have our ways of gauging personal success. Some people compare themselves with the rich and famous, who are seemingly no better than we are but by some stroke of luck, fate, timing, height, nepotism or karma have managed to find wealth, adulation, opportunity and perhaps even love. Many measure themselves against their high school or college friends; still others line themselves up against their colleagues at work. 
 "People compare themselves to the people that are closest to them -- the people in their offices, their profession, someone they went to college with who chose the same profession as them and is doing better," said Kenneth D. Locke, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Idaho. "If you can find a point of similarity -- gender and age, say -- then you can imagine 'What if? Why him or her and not me?' The more similarities the more excruciating it is."
Over the last five years, Dr. Locke conducted five studies in which he asked students to tally the number of times they noticed that they were similar to or different from another person. He then asked them how they they made comparisons -- with whom, in what arena and what feelings they generated. Two-thirds of the respondents compared themselves with others over things like money, possessions and grades, but physical appearance topped everyone's list. 
Age and sex were also factors. That makes sense; I'm much more likely to compare myself to a woman in my age group than to a man. 
Money and career successes are probably the most common yardsticks.
"I have a friend in Chicago who's writing her third book, and she's two years younger than me," said Amy Squires, 34, an unemployed writer who lives in the Bronx with her husband, Frank Ishman, a freelance photographer. "She bought a two-bedroom flat in Lincoln Park with her writing money. My other friends are on their second kids and have their own homes. I was the last of my friends to get married and I'll be the last to own a home and have kids. My husband and I are struggling financially. It can be really frustrating."
Research has shown that the key to overall life satisfaction is not engaging in the dance of comparison. At the National Institute on Aging, researchers found that liking oneself and appreciating one's abilities are formulas for staying happy. Beating oneself up for real or perceived inadequacies or making comparisons in areas beyond one's control (height, musical talent, family background) can cause big problems, or at least existential angst.
But avoiding those things is a lot easier said than done, especially in a world that's constantly pitting people against one another -- and especially in competitive cities like New York. Remember those 23-year-old dot-com millionaires? They sure made a lot of people feel absent from a rather large boat. Is it mere coincidence that many women -- and men -- flip through wedding announcements and compare their ages, educations and pedigrees to those of the bride and groom? I don't think so.
To see how I measured up against the rest of the world, I picked up a copy of "The Rating Game: Are You Doing Better or Worse in Life than Everybody Else?" by Les Krantz and Sue Sveum (Lebhar-Friedman Books, 2000). The book has statistics on topics from adultery to funeral arrangements. Here's what I learned: On average, men 25 to 34 years old and with bachelor's or master's degrees earn $48,688 a year; the comparable figure for women is $37,321. Some 6.2 percent of people 25 to 34 and 8.0 percent of those 35 to 44 have graduate degrees. As of 1998, the median age of a first marriage was 26.7 for men and 25 for women. 
Of course, what matters most is what you do with this information. "I try to use comparison as a way to motivate myself," said Eric Turiansky, 30, who is starting a health insurance company in Manhattan. "Am I comfortable with where I am, who I am and what I'm doing? I accept where I am -- I put myself here and I'm happy -- but it's interesting to look and see where other people are."
He's right. The grass is always greener, lusher and fuller in someone else's backyard. Ms. Squires says her friends often tell her how much they envy her life -- no kids, no mortgage, her travel all over the world. "That's always nice to hear," she said. "I chose this life, and I wouldn't want to change it."
NOR would I. I'm grateful for my family, friends, apartment and work, even though I'm not earning as much as I would like. Like Mr. Turiansky, I try to use comparison just to give myself a jump-start when I'm feeling particularly lazy. And I always try to compare myself to myself, to see how much -- or how little -- I've progressed over the past few years.
When I find myself beating myself up for not being rich enough, prolific enough, pretty enough or tall enough, I remember that there's someone out there who thinks I've got it made. 
Chances are, it's not Julia Roberts.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Ellen Weinstein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (70%); PHOTOGRAPHY (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (64%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (62%); WRITERS (60%) PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHOLOGISTS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF IDAHO (54%)

PERSON: JULIA ROBERTS (73%) ELLIN, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



625 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Another Bush's 'Vision Thing'

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN George W. Bush stepped up to his inaugural podium a year ago today, his view of the world still mystified America, its allies and its enemies. He had made clear what he didn't like -- using American troops for peacekeeping in the Balkans, the Kyoto treaty on global warming, an arms control treaty with Russia that prevented missile defenses. But apart from his conviction that America should lead and the rest of the world should follow, it was hard to tell just where he thought the United States fit into the world.
 A year into Mr. Bush's presidency, the world looks very different -- and so do his skills, though not necessarily his attitudes. His national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, describes Mr. Bush's America as "a hub around which the president can coalesce others to get things done." 
 The surprise for a lot of people was that Mr. Bush, a year out of Texas, demonstrated his father's touch for dealing with foreign leaders when he needed them in a crisis, persuading them that in joining America they were also defending themselves. Inside the White House, the biggest fear about Mr. Bush's second year is that there could be more acts of terror on American soil. But once terrorism is contained and the task ahead is how to manage a peaceful world, the biggest test may lie in how well Mr. Bush uses America's position at the hub to extend its influence. That was the problem that plagued Woodrow Wilson and Mr. Bush's father, and turned Harry Truman into a favorite of presidential historians.
And that takes a different set of skills, chief among them an empathy for the national interests of allies, partners and defeated enemies. For if they wander away from the building of peace, it's as if the war was never won.
In retrospect, what made President Bush so effective in the weeks after Sept. 11 was exactly the characteristic that lent itself to parody in the months before -- his proclivity to describe the world in black-and-white terms.
For a world accustomed to the muted tones of the Clinton administration, in which Iraq and North Korea became "states of concern" and almost every other country was an "emerging market," Mr. Bush's phrases seemed simplistic. 
But his blunt vocabulary "enabled him to say, 'These guys are bad, we're going to go get them,' and then to turn it over to the military to do exactly that," said Michael Mandelbaum, a political scientist. "He was able to set a clear, achievable goal, and that's not what we associate with American foreign policy in the Clinton era, or even before."
The approach proved startlingly effective at gaining international support, partly because Mr. Bush's call for a war against terrorism with a "global reach" gave Russia a new lease on its battle with the Chechens, the Philippines a new impetus to take on rebels in its southern islands, Israel a new way to define the Palestinians, and China an excuse to chase after Muslim separatists.
For a while, many speculated that the war would also tame Mr. Bush's instinct to go it alone, that over time it would make him better attuned to the resentments bred by America's size and its economic reach.
But in December he called his crucial partner in the battle against terrorism, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, and told him that he was walking away from the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. Visitors to the Oval Office say they think Mr. Bush's success in Afghanistan has only reinforced his determination to go his own way -- with allies if they want to join the ride, alone if they don't.
"I sense he is trying harder to understand how the rest of the world views America," the prime minister of Greece, Costas Simitis, said after a recent visit with Mr. Bush. But in the next breath he said Mr. Bush had cautioned him that American troops wouldn't stay in the Balkans forever, and Mr. Simitis warned of the "dangerous symbolism" if America seemed unwilling to keep the uneasy peace it had helped win.
But Ms. Rice argues that Mr. Bush was no "unilateralist" last Jan. 20, and no more of one today. "I think all of this about multilateralism versus unilateralism really stemmed from the rejection of a few bad treaties, that were lowest-common-denominator treaties, in which the United States should not have been involved because they were not going to solve the problems that they purported to solve," she said. She ticked off the Kyoto treaty on global warming, the establishment of an international criminal court and the biological weapons protocol.
Other, more brittle elements of Mr. Bush's worldview of last Jan. 20 have given way. Mr. Bush insists that no American forces will be keeping the peace in Afghanistan, but as Secretary of State Colin L. Powell seemed to hint on a brief stopover in Kabul last week, it may not be that simple. Mr. Bush is being forced to consider a bigger American role, lest he repeat one of his father's mistakes: allowing a power vacuum in a lawless Afghanistan, which eventually made it ripe for terrorists.
As Sept. 11 recedes, another aspect of Mr. Bush's outlook seems likely to take center stage: his "tough love" approach to countries that cannot manage their own economic affairs, and his willingness to let nonstrategic allies sink.
When Argentina headed toward collapse, he expressed sympathy but argued that America could not help until Argentina's leaders got on the path to fiscal discipline and banned all talk of reversing American-style reforms. 
In Mr. Bush's view, American power is for keeping the peace and ending the scourge of terrorism, but not for micro-managing the affairs of other countries in a global economy. Those who play by American rules get to play in America's league. Those who don't get sent to the minors. 
So far, it's worked. But it's doubtful that if 2002 is marked by more economic collapses that threaten global financial stability -- and thus America's own delicate financial health -- Mr. Bush will be able to afford such a hands-off approach. It's one thing to let Argentina sink or swim. It's another if Japan's recession and deflation produce a deeper crisis and the president seems aloof from the details. 
"If Japan goes the way of Argentina, no one will be able to say, 'Too bad, but good luck,' " one senior State Department official who sits in on the administration's strategy sessions said. "Sept. 11 reminded us that our military can do amazing things, and that we can still build alliances in a crisis. But that's different from global management."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghans avoid an unexploded bomb, which they said was dropped by Americans. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); HIJACKING (70%); HISTORY (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (57%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (85%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



626 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: President Is Emphasizing Wars at Home and Abroad 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19 

 BODY:
One year into his presidency, George W. Bush finds himself suspended between his early victories in the war on terrorism and his election-year message that he is waging war on recession and rising unemployment.
 But as he marks the anniversary of his inauguration at Camp David on Sunday, he and his aides are struggling to blend those themes, and are determined to avoid the setbacks in midterm Congressional elections that have plagued every president since Franklin D. Roosevelt. "History shows," said Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser, "that it's an uphill challenge." 
 Mr. Bush is planning no public celebrations of his first year in office. But all weekend, he and his top advisers -- Karen Hughes, Condoleezza Rice and his speechwriter, Michael Gerson -- have been honing his Jan. 29 State of the Union speech, which in early drafts mixes counterterrorism, domestic defense and his strategy for pulling out of the recession.
White House advisers, who have been preparing for the speech since November, consider it their biggest chance since the president's Sept. 20 address to Congress to seize the headlines and set the agenda. 
But at a moment of soaring personal approval ratings, driven by his conduct of the war, Mr. Bush is now asking Americans to focus on his domestic programs, which are not as popular as he is. They are also far less unifying than his demands in September that the Taliban turn over the world's most wanted terrorists or face attack.
Those days seem distant now, as Washington comes down from its wartime high to the customary business of partisan politics, looming deficits and investigations -- the latest one involving the Enron Corporation, whose ties to the administration are long and deep.
Although White House advisers insist that the Washington uproar over Enron is not distracting, the fact is that the president's message of last week -- the promotion of trade in a trip to Illinois, Missouri and Louisiana -- was overshadowed by questions about the administration's links to the company's top executives, and by the accident of his fainting after choking on a pretzel.
Mr. Bush's effort to promote the themes of his State of the Union address and focus the country on his economic agenda got off to a rough start on Monday and Tuesday as he took a trip along the length of the Mississippi, from the John Deere factory in East Moline, Ill., to a small farming town in Missouri, to the giant port in New Orleans. 
The beginning of the trip was overshadowed by the pretzel incident, which left a nasty scrape on the president's cheek after he fell. He was also suffering from a cold, and throughout the trip he seemed less focused and enthusiastic than at any time since Sept. 11.
But Mr. Bush also offered no new details about his plans to revive the economy, and simply repeated at each stop that trade creates jobs. He addressed none of the trade issues that are regularly discussed along production lines like the one he was visiting. Many John Deere products are now produced in lower-wage factories around the world, from China to India to South Africa, meaning that 40 percent of the company's employees are not in the United States. And the global recession has badly hurt John Deere's export business, particularly to Russia and its former republics.
"It wasn't a well-planned exercise," one of Mr. Bush's aides conceded after his appearance in New Orleans drew a small, relatively quiet, invitation-only crowd. Like the small gatherings Mr. Bush addressed on Monday, people cheered loudest when Mr. Bush talked about the war on terrorism, but seemed subdued when he talked about the need for an economic stimulus bill and passage of his energy proposals.
One of Mr. Bush's first priorities when Congress returns next week is pushing for Senate passage of his energy bill, which administration officials said they expect to come up for a vote in early February. It is unclear how much the Enron investigations will affect passage of the proposals, which Democrats say give off at least the appearance of having been written to benefit Enron. 
Vice President Dick Cheney or members of his staff met five times last year with Enron executives to discuss energy policy matters, Mr. Cheney's office has acknowledged. But despite demands for the records of the meetings from the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, Mr. Cheney has said no, citing executive privilege.
In the meantime, the White House says that it already has more than 50 of the 60 Senate votes needed for passage of the bill. To round up additional Democratic votes, the White House has called on the traditionally Democratic labor unions. The unions, which helped round up votes when the House or Representatives passed its version of the bill, support the legislation because they expect it will create thousands of jobs.
"They are very, very key," Nicholas E. Calio, the White House chief Congressional liaison, said of the unions. "And they did a fabulous job on working the House bill." Administration officials added that their goal is to pry away labor votes as they head into the November elections.
Meanwhile administration officials characterized the Enron investigations as a financial scandal, not a White House one, and declared that only the press was concerned with it. Certainly Mr. Bush's spokesman, Ari Fleischer, spent much of the past week describing contacts between Enron officials and senior members of the administration, including a large number who once held stock on the company or provided it with advice.
"We understand the gravity of the situation when it comes to the seventh largest corporation in America," said Dan Bartlett, the White House director of communications. "But the political aspect of it is going nowhere."
Yet Democrats, who noted that perceptions often trump facts, looked on in wonderment last week as Mr. Cheney refused once again to release the records about the contacts of his task force with Enron. That gave at least the appearance, Democrats said, of a cover-up. "It's just not possible to say no in Washington in this environment to a document request or a subpoena from Congress," said Lanny J. Davis, who learned the hard way as a chief White House defender of President Bill Clinton. "It's just a question of when do you give in, not whether."
White House officials, Mr. Davis added, have to be distracted. "When you're in that cocoon, you can convince yourself that you're doing your job and you're not distracted," he said. "We would have said the same thing. It's the incredible intensity of working at the White House that creates this intellectual focus that doesn't allow you to see from the outside what's really happening."
Mr. Rove, who said he was not distracted, said Mr. Bush would campaign throughout the year for candidates for Congress and governorships. "Right now he's got more significant things on his agenda that are keeping him from jumping out on the campaign trail," Mr. Rove said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush spoke at the port of New Orleans, calling on the Senate to give him the authority to negotiate free-trade agreements quickly. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (76%); TALIBAN (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (63%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (81%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KARL ROVE (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (55%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



627 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Talk Ends and Spin Begins: Tina Brown Has No Regrets 

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

 BODY:
Her announcement to the staff about the suspension of Talk magazine on Friday evening was emotional, but Tina Brown's tears had dried in time to spin the first colossal failure of her glittering career.
 "There is nobody more boring than the undefeated," Ms. Brown said jauntily three hours after the staff meeting. "Any great, long career has at least one flameout in it. I'm very proud of having taken the risk." 
 Talk is silent. Its creator, however, still has something to say. On her way to a late-night, boozy wake at an editor's elegant downtown apartment, Ms. Brown squeezed in a brisk interview to undercut the dirges surrounding the demise of her ill-fated magazine. She looked slightly funereal in a somber black sheath, matching jacket and pearls. The location, Tomato, a noisy cafe near her office, was neither exclusive nor glamorous. But Ms. Brown brought her customary purpose and sang-froid to the exercise. 
"I am still Tina Brown," she said with a sardonic smile when asked what it was like to topple from the heights of fame and glossy success associated with her name. "I have been swimming in a howling sea of schadenfreude for the past three years. I am used to it."
For most of her great, long career, Ms. Brown, 48, was more accustomed to envy, fear and grudging respect. With relentless dedication and a clever mix of flashy journalism and sophisticated gossip, she revived Vanity Fair and later The New Yorker. She helped found the American cult of celebrity and became one of its reigning deities. Now, some lesser gods are predicting with gleeful sorrow that she may have to leave Mount Olympus.
"I think the curtain comes down now -- she has to go home," Michael Wolff, the media columnist at New York Magazine who has frequently sparred with Ms. Brown. "This is no ordinary failure. She staked everything and was wiped out. She's a little Enronish. There was a lot of illusion. But over time at Talk you could see Tina as the depreciating asset. She started out fully valued. She wasn't just a genius editor, she was the social arbiter of New York."
Her stature was never greater than at Talk's glittering opening party three years ago on Liberty Island for 1,400 of the world's most famous faces -- Madonna and Henry A. Kissinger, Demi Moore and Salman Rushdie. It was an orgy of publicity, celebrity-worship and Ms. Brown's mantra, buzz. Celebrity arrivals were covered live on NY1. It made the gossip pages in newspapers as far away as Karachi and Hong Kong. It was the party of the year, and it defined the bravado and giddy self-indulgence of the 90's.
And Ms. Brown felt she should be part of the zeitgeist instead of just celebrating it. "The entrepreneurial gene entered my soul, perhaps I have become more American than I realized," she said. "I just felt, like everyone else at the time -- don't forget, it was a dot-com America moment. Everybody was doing things on their own and I wanted to have that experience."
Ms. Brown forged a partnership with Hearst Magazines and Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein, the co-chairman of Miramax, to start her own magazine, a general-interest publication with Hollywood roots. The economy slowed down and the promised synergy of magazine articles that would blossom into movie treatments never quite took hold. Hearst pulled out, and Mr. Weinstein followed suit.
The magazine's coverage of stars of Miramax films such as Gwyneth Paltrow lead to criticism that the synergy went only one way, with the movie studio's publicity machine feeding ideas to the magazine. New York did not talk about Talk, except to marvel at how little talk it had generated. Advertisers snubbed the magazine in part to punish it for early hubris in insisting that advertisers sign for the first three issues or not be in the premiere issue at all.
New York's media world was ready to pounce. Ms. Brown's success grated, and so, at times, did her personality. When she wants, the Englishwoman can charm with witty, wicked conversation and flattering attention. She can just as quickly turn remote and icy.
Ms. Brown, a workaholic famous for sending blistering faxes to employees in the middle of the night, made her mark at Vanity Fair and The New Yorker by insisting on being hot, even if that meant tearing up the magazine at press time at a huge expense of money and editors' time. (At The New Yorker, writers knew they had pleased their exacting editor when drafts came back marked "hot" or "v. hot.")
She kept up the crisis pace at Talk, a monthly, most notably by replacing a June cover story on a pouting starlet, Estella Warren, with a black-and-white cover featuring the stars of "The Producers," Matthew Broderick and Nathan Lane. She told reporters that she called in the change during intermission while at the premiere with Mr. Weinstein. Media critics sneered that the last-minute switch was a bow to the Miramax boss, a backer of the show.
What baffled the New York magazine world was that Ms. Brown had not picked up the buzz about the Broadway show months earlier. "Everybody knew this was going to be big, why didn't she?" asked an editor at a rival magazine. Such incidents fueled talk that Tina Brown had lost her edge.
Ms. Brown said the magazine had turned a corner by last year but that the toll of Sept. 11 on advertising sapped its momentum. Others at Talk say the magazine was doomed anyway, not just because it was not selling well but because it was too costly to produce.
As its prestige dwindled, so did Mr. Weinstein's patience. In the first issue after the attack on the World Trade Center, one editor recalled, Ms. Brown and other editors wanted to put a photograph of a fireman on the cover. Mr. Weinstein insisted on Rudolph W. Giuliani and fumed that the pace wasn't fast enough.
"I could run this magazine better than anyone," he hollered at Ms. Brown, according to one editor present. Mr. Weinstein declined to be interviewed for this article, but sent a statement through an assistant. "I share her interest in repeatedly taking on great challenges and proving the naysayers wrong," it reads. "I'm very appreciative of her dedication to the magazine and her contributions to Miramax's highly successful book division."
Ms. Brown said she had sensed a change in the country's mood long before Sept. 11. After the collapse of the dot-com bubble, she said, there was a discernible move from mindless consumerism and ephemeral gossip toward simple, lasting values. She expressed the shift in sensibility this way: "Back then, I said that heart is cool."
The daughter of a British film producer, she became the editor of the British magazine Tatler at age 26, reviving it with saucy journalism. In 1981, she met and married one of London's more dashing editors, Harry Evans. They have two children, George, 15, and Isabel, 11. She was brought to New York in 1984 to resuscitate Vanity Fair, pleasing S. I. Newhouse so much that he asked her to edit The New Yorker.
At Talk, there were few breakthrough or memorable articles. The Hillary Clinton interview in the first issue got a lot of attention. Her post-Sept. 11 scoop, a first-person account of the day by Chelsea Clinton, got much less. But, Ms. Brown said, Talk had finally found its voice in the last few issues. She heard that the magazine was about to fold moments before attending a Golden Globe Awards party in Los Angeles. "A year and a half ago I'd go to L.A. and people would say: 'I love your magazine,' with a glazed look. This time, people knew the articles."
Friday night, at a farewell party at the East Village apartment of a Talk editor, Andrew Lee, the guests applauded when Ms. Brown walked in at 10 p.m.
"She was fabulous to me, she is such a writer's editor, I fell in love in 15 seconds," said Lisa DePaulo, a young writer Ms. Brown hired from New York magazine. Ms. DePaulo, who wrote articles for Talk about the disappearance of Chandra Levy, and the accused killer Robert A. Durst, said she could not attend the earlier staff meeting, but received a personal e-mail message from Ms. Brown breaking the news and thanking her for her work -- 15 minutes after the 5 p.m. meeting began. "I don't know how she did that so fast, but I was really touched. It was so gracious." 
Ms. Brown said she had not yet planned her next move, saying she wanted to spend time with her children, and continue with Talk Miramax Books, which is owned solely by Miramax Films and has published several best sellers.
She is unlikely to fade away. Ms. Brown has kept a detailed journal since she was a teenager. Readers had gotten a taste in the last few issues of Talk, in a feature called "Tina Brown's Diary," which chronicled, breezily, her life at the top. Her real diaries could be a more lasting contribution: a record of an era and industry that could mix Bridget Jones with the memoirs of the Duc de Saint-Simon.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Talk's launching in 1999, Tina Brown celebrated with the magazine's publisher, Ronald A. Galotti, left, and Michael Eisner of Walt Disney. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WRITERS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%) MAGAZINES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: NEW YORK MAGAZINE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: TALK (MAGAZINE); VANITY FAIR (MAGAZINE); NEW YORKER (MAGAZINE) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

PERSON: MADONNA (73%) STANLEY, ALESSANDRA; BROWN, TINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



628 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1562 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg and the Man on the Street; 
Reaching Out to the Homeless, Mayor Finds No Easy Answers

BYLINE:  By NINA BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
Within days of taking office, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg tackled a civic issue that he, like many New Yorkers, has not really had to confront for years: homeless people living on Manhattan streets. 
 Pressed by signs of rising homelessness and a court ruling that allows homeless people to sleep on the steps of Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, Mr. Bloomberg announced that his police commissioner had a plan to bring more people in from the cold by making the shelters safer. 
 To many veteran city officials and advocates for the homeless, Mr. Bloomberg's initiative was a well-meaning move that missed the mark, because it seemed to ignore the vast changes that have taken place in homeless policy and practice in the last decade. But they soon saw that the new administration was also taking a crash course in the issue behind the scenes. 
In a sharp departure from his predecessor, the mayor reached out to the Giuliani administration's most prominent legal foes: Steven Banks, director of the Legal Aid Society's Homeless Rights Project, and Mary Brosnahan Sullivan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless. They were invited to City Hall for a friendly debriefing by Mr. Bloomberg's sister, Marjorie Tiven, who is a social worker, and later met with the new commissioner for homeless services, Linda Gibbs.
Mr. Banks seemed disarmed. "We're not in court this week because this administration, unlike the prior administration, has been willing to come up with solutions for people night-to-night at the same time that it's been discussing with us ways to get out of this box," he said.
The box, of course, is partly of the advocates' making -- a shelter system that has expanded and improved under the prod of court rulings, and has sapped the city's political will to actually prevent or solve homelessness. 
But in recent interviews, both the old combatants of the homeless policy wars in New York and experts around the country said they were ready for a fresh approach. Many hope that Mr. Bloomberg's business sense and tight budget will add up to a new willingness to try innovative, less costly approaches that bypass the shelters entirely. 
"Ultimately we do need to get people into housing, and the faster the better," said Nan Roman, president of the National Alliance to End Homelessness, an advocacy organization in Washington. "But if you're mayor, you've got to play the hand you're dealt." 
She added, "You're not going to solve affordable housing in a four-year mayoral term, or probably in the next decade, so you have to look at other strategies."
The new strategies fall mainly into two parts: stopping the flow to the shelter's front door, and increasing exits out the back. Even old courtroom antagonists show a remarkable consensus on the key problems -- and shelter security is not high on the list. 
The city's shelter system for single adults, now mainly made up of small nonprofit programs under contract, is safer than it has been in years, former city officials and those who criticized them agree. Far from shunning the city shelters that serve as points of entry and assessment, city figures show, homeless men have been routinely exceeding the supply of regular beds this winter, spilling into makeshift cots by as many as 50 a night, in violation of court-ordered shelter standards.
They also agree that the most recent upsurge in the visibility of the homeless in Manhattan may have less to do with conditions in the shelters -- or even with the deteriorating economy -- than with the practical effects of Sept. 11. 
The terrorist attack displaced homeless people from the less noticeable alleys and doorways in what became the "frozen zone" in Lower Manhattan, and from encampments near bridges and tunnels now more heavily patrolled by the police, explained Muzzy Rosenblatt, a former acting commissioner of homeless services who directs the Bowery Residents' Council, one of the nonprofit agencies that operate 44 of the city's 51 shelters. 
At the same time, he said, new policing demands after the attacks left a lull in the sweeps that Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani used to keep homelessness out of central tourist areas and upscale residential neighborhoods.
A new police crackdown by the Bloomberg administration may help disperse such people -- and reassure New Yorkers who remember the heyday of homelessness in the 1980's, when the shelter system seemed to be ballooning out of control even as public places became squalid campgrounds for the deranged and the destitute. 
But veterans of past crackdowns say police action will not address more fundamental problems mounting since the late 1990's. They point out, too, that police efforts to sweep the streets and the shelters of undesirables sometimes only add another spin to the revolving doors -- moving the chronically homeless among jails, shelters and the streets. 
Studies in the 1990's found that the chronically homeless -- deranged, debilitated people who dominate the public image of the problem -- occupied half the single adult shelter beds at any one time, but that many more people with fewer, if any, disabilities passed through the shelters during housing emergencies. Of about 25,000 single adults who entered the system in a given year, half left after a week and did not return. 
Officials and advocates agree that the decline in visible homelessness in the city, at a time when it was rising in many other places across the country, was partly achieved by moving chronic shelter users with disabilities into permanent housing with support services. Rent subsidies for thousands of people with AIDS and a small stream of low-cost apartments owned and renovated by the city under three mayors also played a role.
But subsidized housing and financial aid dwindled even as the economic boom drove up housing costs, national experts note. Now a souring economy threatens to increase housing emergencies, and government cutbacks could further encourage psychiatric hospitals and prisons to dump former patients and inmates on the shelters or the streets. 
To Mr. Rosenblatt of the Bowery Residents' Council, who recently took Mr. Bloomberg's sister along when his agency's outreach workers did their nightly rounds, the sight of homeless people on Fifth Avenue should be a reminder that many of the neediest have to be coaxed into the system.
"Most people living on the street are fiercely independent and self-reliant," said Mr. Rosenblatt, who favors adding more outreach programs and drop-in centers -- places that typically offer chairs, food and counseling as a way to ease street people into more structured shelters. "Most are not ready to come straight to a bed."
But others say this step-by-step model has resulted in a costly, federally subsidized system of institutions that leaves many mentally ill people still living on the street. 
An alternative approach used by Pathways to Housing, a 10-year-old program based in Harlem, is being hailed as a national model. It moves street people typically rejected by other housing programs directly into their own apartments. They are offered an array of treatment, vocational and support services, but are not required to accept the help. 
"It works," said the director, Sam Tsemberis, who said the program, which houses 350 around the city, has a waiting list of 500 and a success rate of 85 percent. "When their survival isn't an issue, they can think about the next step." 
In Massachusetts, Philip Mangano, an advocate recently named as the point person on homelessness for the Bush administration, has been remarkably successful at pressuring other systems, including foster care and corrections, to take more responsibility for those they discharge, rather than just sending them to the streets or shelters. 
"Contrary to the usual public perception that homeless people are kind of anonymous folk," he said, "actually they're well known to city and state systems of care that have served them, and then at critical moments of transition have discharged them to the streets or to shelters rather than providing a residential placement."
In New York, a judge ruled in 2000 that the city must arrange continuing treatment for mentally ill inmates before they are released from the Rikers Island jails, rather than dropping them on a Queens street in the middle of the night with $3 in subway tokens, the usual practice. But the details have not been worked out.
"Putting cops in the shelters is not the answer," said Anthony Williams, 39, who is often homeless. He led a small protest last week outside a municipal courthouse where homeless people are fined for "quality of life" offenses like obstructing a park bench or public drinking. "The answer is developing affordable housing, and a living wage."
Homelessness does not come cheap. Based on computerized records from eight city and state agencies, it costs $40,000 in public money for a mentally ill person to be homeless in the city for a year, including emergency medical care and jail costs.
Ms. Gibbs, who who has a strong city government pedigree, most recently served was a deputy commissioner for the Administration of Children's Services, stresses that the conversation has just begun.
The hope, she said, is "that good, rational, humane solutions can be found that will result in having fewer people in the shelter system and more people in permanent housing."

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); HIJACKING (79%); POLICE FORCES (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); TERRORISM (74%); LEGAL AID (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%) HOMELESS PERSONS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%) BERNSTEIN, NINA; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



629 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
EASLICK, SUSAN BOLLES

 BODY:
 EASLICK-Susan Bolles, 61. Of Washington, DC, Grosse Pointe Farms, MI, and Ridgewood, NJ. Died of cancer on January 16, 2002. Susan was the Administrative Director of Delta Kappa Epsilon Fraternity and the Development Director of its educational foundation, the Rampant Lion Foundation, which she and her husband David, attorney and DKE Executive Director, helped found in the 1980's. Unique in her twentyyear leadership role in a men's fraternal organization, she was the spark that continually advanced the spirit and the services of the fraternity. The 35,000 alumni and 2,500 undergraduate members of DKE will greatly miss her. Her unique package of skills included an eye for decorating, and she was President of Park Avenue Designs, her own interior design firm. An early and strong admirer of President Bush, in the 2000 elections Susan single handedly organized "Grosse Pointers for George W. Bush," hosting a breakfast during the primaries and serving as the official greeter for an early Economic Club of Detroit campaign visit. She and David continued as proud members of the Republican National Finance Committee until her death. They relocated to Washington, DC from their Grosse Pointe Farms, MI. home, where they had resided for 15 years, in February 2001. She was a graduate of Dwight School for Girls in Englewood, NJ, Bennett College, and attended Finch College. An avid sailor, she directed junior sailing programs at the Shelter Island Yacht Club and Grosse Pointe Club. Susan was a sustaining member of the Junior League of Washington, DC and a member of the Grosse Pointe Junior League Gardeners. 
She also held memberships in the Yale Club of New York, the University Club of Washington DC, the Grosse Pointe Club, and the Detroit Club. A member of St. Alban's Episcopal Church in Washington, she had previously served on the vestry of St. Elizabeth's Church in Ridgewood, NJ, and directed its children's choir. Survived by husband David Kenneth Easlick, Jr., daughter Susan Ackerson Holmes and fiance Sean Thomas Cosgrove, daughter Elisabeth Holmes McKean and son-in-law George Edwin McKean III, stepdaughter Sarah Jane Easlick, stepson David Kenneth Easlick III, grandchildren George Edwin McKean IV, Michael Edmunds McKean, her West Highland White Terrier "Poppy," and the many good friends around the world, with whom she stayed in constant contact. A memorial service will be held at St. Alban's Episcopal Church, Washington DC on January 21, 2002 at 11:00 AM. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the Rampant Lion Foundation, the Educational Foundation of Delta Kappa Epsilon Fraternity, 2238 47th Street NW, Washington, DC, 20007. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEATHS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (75%); INTERIOR DECORATING (74%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); DOGS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); SAILING (65%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%) 

ORGANIZATION: DELTA KAPPA EPSILON (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) EASLICK, SUSAN BOLLES 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (90%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



630 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: Environmental Threat 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Art of Turning a Sow's Ear Into a Silk Purse" (Week in Review, Jan. 13), about President Bush's record on the environment:
 Environmentalism is no longer a fringe movement; it is firmly embedded in our culture. 
As a suburb-dwelling, self-employed father of three small children, I certainly care about the economy, national security and world events. But my demographic group also recognizes the correlation between clean air, clean water and modern epidemics like asthma and breast cancer. 
 The moral obligation of President Bush to protect the environment is no less imperative because of Sept. 11. It does no good to protect ourselves against terrorism if we cannot protect ourselves against ourselves.

WILLIAM ABRANOWICZ
Bedford, N.Y., Jan. 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (85%); HIJACKING (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); ASTHMA (71%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (71%); CHILDREN (69%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); BREAST CANCER (52%) ENVIRONMENT; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ABRANOWICZ, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



631 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: A Postwar Model: Rebuilding Japan 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Following Thomas L. Friedman's lead (column, Jan. 16), I propose a strong American lead in building an Afghanistan that will survive in the 21st century. The model is America's success in rebuilding Japan. 
 I was there in 1946, a lowly member of an intelligence unit that toured the back roads of rural Japan to "show the flag" while Gen. Douglas C. MacArthur in Tokyo constructed and operated the strong and durable Japan that exists today. We saw, firsthand, that "Makasa-san" became the temporary replacement for the emperor. 
 Afghans accept America's military prowess. Even the warlords would not be able to hold the people's allegiance if military government by a multinational force under the command of an American general were established and maintained for 5 or 10 years.
Postwar Japan accepted the demand to create and ratify a constitution on the American pattern with legislative and judicial branches and elected officials. We must try to do the same in Afghanistan and break the age-old pattern of internal weakness and foreign adventuring.

PETER M. HAY
Summit, N.J., Jan. 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) WORLD WAR II (1939-45); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%) HAY, PETER M 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); JAPAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



632 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Parties Slouch Into Ring, Simply Hoping for Best

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 19 

 BODY:
After three days of partisan bravado at their dueling winter conventions, the Republican Party concluded its gathering here today and the Democratic Party closed its meeting in Washington. Yet beneath the all-out politicking, it was clear that both sides have this much in common: uneasiness.
 So much, in fact, that some Republican and Democratic leaders did not put forth the customary confident predictions that their party would win control of the House and Senate in the midterm elections in November. Leaders in both parties are apprehensive, they say. Because of Sept. 11 and the unrest over the economy and the collapse of Enron, the political climate is foggier and potentially more volatile than it has been in years. 
 Nothing, it seems, is certain.
Republicans hope that President Bush's immense popularity for his stewardship of the war not only will hold, but will also buoy the party's candidates this fall. But Democrats argue that domestic matters will be front and center and that even a popular president cannot sway local contests. 
Democrats hope that a depressed economy will spur voters to reject the party in power and blame the Bush tax cut for bringing on a recession. But Republicans hope the economy will rebound and that their party -- and the tax cut -- will get the credit. 
Republicans hope that voters will reward their party for broadening its appeal because of Mr. Bush's efforts to reach out even to liberals like Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts to pass an education bill.
"I'm glad the Democrats worked with us," Karl Rove, the president's chief strategist, told party members here. "But you know what? The Republicans will get the credit. We should not be afraid of bipartisanship in an election year."
But Democrats hope that voters will be most concerned about the economy, prescription drugs and Social Security -- and will continue to believe that their party is best suited to tackle those issues.
Democrats hope that Republicans will be enveloped by repercussions over Enron, and that it will heighten their argument that the White House is a pawn of special interests -- and not seriously interested in reforming how campaigns are financed. But Republicans hope that Democrats will be seen as just as beholden to Enron, and that the Democrats' drive to stir up the issue politically will backfire.
Contributing to the undercurrent of anxiety at the party gatherings is that after the closely contested election of 2000, the American electorate remains painfully divided.
In the Senate, Democrats cling to a 50-49 majority, while in the House there are 222 Republicans and 221 Democrats. Thirty-six governorships are at stake.
"We are an equally divided country," Mr. Rove said. "Neither party will gain a huge advantage in the coming election. All gains for either party are likely to be measured in inches and feet and yards -- not miles."
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic whip, did not venture to predict that her party would win back the House. "It's a tossup," she said. "Make no mistake: Each of these races will be won district by district. I don't think anyone can tell you who is going to win."
Not surprisingly, in separate interviews, the newly elected Republican chairman, former Gov. Marc Racicot of Montana and the Democratic chairman, Terry McAuliffe, offered starkly divergent perspectives.
Mr. McAuliffe said the most certain sign that Democrats will do well in November is that they wrested control from Republicans in the two governors' races last November, in New Jersey and Virginia. He said it did not matter that Republicans amassed a record $82 million in donations last year, nearly doubling the $46.5 million collected by Democrats. (Republicans started this year with $29 million in the bank; Democrats said they have paid off their debts and are about even.)
"They got their clock cleaned in 2001," Mr. McAuliffe said. "They spent $53 million in the last election and all they could do was elect a lifelong Democrat to be mayor of New York."
Indeed, some Republicans were a touch embarrassed when, in his swan-song speech here to the party, the outgoing chairman, former Gov. James S. Gilmore III of Virginia, did not have much to show beyond the New York victory of Michael R. Bloomberg, who changed parties to run for mayor. The next victory he cited was the election of "a mayor, an African-American, in Chula, Miss."
Mr. Racicot insisted that the elections last year portend nothing for this year. He attributed the election of Mark R. Warner as governor of Virginia and James E. McGreevey as governor of New Jersey to local circumstances.
"I don't think it's a trend," Mr. Racicot said. "It's largely a reflection of what happens at the local level. In Virginia, you had economic circumstances that were making it more challenging, and you had a candidate in Mark Warner who was pretty conservative in his economic principles." 
He also suggested that in those states, the Republican nominees were not particularly appealing personally. 
"Personality is a hugely important commodity," he said, "and voters have a way of discerning it."
For this week, at least, the Republicans have been more on the defensive. White House officials had predicted a trouble-free run to Mr. Bush's State of the Union address this month. They had hoped he could capitalize on his popularity by winning support for his economic policies. Instead, the party has been concerned by the Enron collapse, despite the insistence by White House officials that the company's executives won no special favors for their donations to Republicans.
The extraordinary sensitivity over the issue was apparent when, only moments after Ken Mehlman, the White House political director, was hooked up through a speaker phone to a briefing for reporters here, the subject of Enron came up. Mr. Mehlman, who had not yet uttered a word, extracted himself from the discussion, saying the connection was bad and that he had to catch a plane from Washington to join the party meeting in Austin.
"I'm about to get to a place where I can't do this any more," Mr. Mehlman said as the room of reporters and Republican operatives erupted in laughter. "You can't even hear the questions. You all have fun. I'll see you soon."
Not all Democrats see Enron as a winner for them. Some party strategists warn that the party should stick to issues like the economy and health care.
"We don't need to look for some Enron ghost in the White House that may or may not be there," said Nick Baldick, a Democratic strategist. "It's a waste of time and a distraction. Democrats should talk about helping people."
By contrast, the fear among Republicans is that an economy recovery may not materialize.
"If the public feels like the economy is stagnated and there's not a positive outlook for the future, then there may be an anti-incumbent and anti-party-in-power mood," said John L. Ryder, the Republican chairman from Tennessee.
Even after his most rosy prognosis for November, Matthew Dowd, a political adviser to the White House and Republican Party, conceded, "You still worry about the economy."
As the campaigning intensifies, the parties messages will be delivered by the two party chairmen, who will face-off for the first time Sunday on "Meet the Press."
Asked what he thinks of Mr. McAuliffe, Mr. Racicot said, "I understand him to be gregarious and likable, perhaps a little more verbose than I am."
Mr. McAuliffe, raring for a battle, was not so charitable, and immediately raised questions about Mr. Racicot continuing to be paid for nonlobbying work for a firm that lobbied for Enron. He said, "Listen, George Bush has to decide: Should he have an Enron lobbyist as chair? But that's not my decision."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A Political Memo article last Sunday about the end of winter meetings of the Republican and Democratic Parties misstated the number of Democrats in the House of Representatives. It is 211, not 221.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We are an equally divided country," Karl Rove says. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TERRORISM (70%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) ELECTIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ELECTION ISSUES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



633 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1938 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: BACKDROP; 
In Houston, the Lines Dividing Politics, Business and Society Are Especially Blurry

BYLINE:  This article was reported and written by Don Van Natta Jr., John Schwartz and Jim Yardley. 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
On the day that Enron Field made its debut in April 2000, its "Diamond Club" was a portrait in power.
 In the state-of-the-art baseball stadium's most exclusive section, behind home plate, there were the George Bushes -- a former president and a president to be -- along with the younger Mr. Bush's running mate, Dick Cheney, and his successor as governor, Rick Perry. Nearby was Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, whose husband, Ray, is a lawyer with Enron's chief law firm, Vinson & Elkins. And then came the executives of Houston's biggest companies, who had vied to become the younger Bush's most prominent fund-raisers, just as they had jockeyed to buy the prized luxury seats. 
 And at the center of it all, down on the pitcher's mound, was Kenneth L. Lay, the man responsible for building Enron into an American powerhouse, throwing out the first ball. 
If the cozy intertwining of business and politics at Enron Field is not unique to Houston or to Texas, it is pronounced here, and it was starkly visible that day. Now, in the company's spectacular collapse, the relationships are starkly visible once more, as Congress and the Justice Department ask whether that closeness, a part of the city's heritage, was at least partly to blame.
"It's a classic example of the circle of influence and inside connections that this entire case typifies," said Scott Harshbarger, president of Common Cause. "And it's not only about these guys. It's what has been happening in Washington for so long now."
Investigators are questioning whether Enron's outside auditors and lawyers abandoned their function of providing checks and balances against corporate excess. They are looking at Arthur Andersen, which so thoroughly blended its corporate DNA with its client's that a steady stream of Andersen employees came to work for Enron at the trading company's futuristic downtown tower. Similar questions are being asked of Vinson & Elkins, another recruiting depot for Enron, which reviewed internal accusations of wrongdoing and cleared the company. Enron paid its lawyers $30 million last year; it paid Andersen $52 million.
The culture in which Enron flourished blends politics, business and social relationships so thoroughly that the distinctions sometimes lose their meaning. The internal pressure applied to employees at Enron, at Vinson & Elkins and at Arthur Andersen to contribute to the companies' political action committees was heavy, according to interviews and documents. Each of the companies ranked among the Bush presidential campaign's 10 largest contributors.
According to one employee, when a participant in Enron's official online chat room brought up the support for Mr. Bush, Mr. Lay responded that Enron would do well with or without George W. Bush, but that the corporation would benefit from his election.
For Mr. Lay, that day at Enron Field, when his company stood at the center of power and influence, was especially sweet, because just a few years earlier, he was an outsider planning a revolution.
"They kind of burst on the scene in the 90's," said Bob Lanier, who was Houston's mayor from 1992 to 1997. "It was a sharp rise."
Mr. Lay started in Houston with an unglamorous natural gas pipeline company. In moves that are now well known, he hired a brash young consultant, Jeffrey K. Skilling, away from McKinsey & Company to transform the energy business from a sedate, regulated world of public utilities to a more free-for-all market. 
"This is the future," Mr. Skilling told The Houston Chronicle at the unveiling of the company's trading floor in 1994. "The utilities don't have this. This is what the utilities fear. "
A bitter rivalry took shape here between Mr. Lay's Enron and the old energy establishment, most prominently Houston Lighting and Power, the local utility, led by Don Jordan. The enmity between the two men was known from Houston to Washington, where they testified on opposite sides of the deregulation debate.
Enron won those fights to open up natural gas and electricity to competition, and it became Houston's signature company. Mr. Lay, in turn, became Mr. Houston, leading the influential business association, the Greater Houston Partnership. Along with former President George Bush and former Secretary of State James A. Baker 3rd, he became one of Houston's leading statesmen. He helped raise more than $100 million for his alma mater, the University of Houston, and pushed for new stadiums for Houston's professional sports teams. With his wife, Linda, he supported the symphony, the ballet and seemingly every other institution in town. He also opposed efforts to roll back affirmative action programs.
"He did so many things that were helpful to the city -- that's a hell of a way to get some followers," said Mr. Lanier, himself independently wealthy. "My experience is they laugh at your jokes more the richer you get."
Mr. Lay was only the city's latest kingmaker. A generation before, the leadership had been a close-knit group of financiers and businessmen known as the 8F Club because of their meeting place at a local hotel. These were the executives whose companies helped NASA put a man on the moon and built the stadium of yesterday's future: the Astrodome.
"Ken Lay came as close to being the 8F Club and having the room to himself as anybody I know," said Rodney Ellis, a local state senator.
As Enron took the lead in the deregulation movement, the company showered millions of dollars on state and federal politicians in both parties whose support was critical in forcing open the energy markets. Foremost among the beneficiaries was George W. Bush, whose presidential campaign was taking public shape in early 2000.
As far back as February 1998, Mr. Lay was among the two dozen wealthy and influential Texas fund-raisers who gathered for a get-acquainted session with Mr. Bush on a 10,000-acre ranch outside the small town of Wheeler. Mr. Lay would later be considered among the most important of Mr. Bush's financial supporters, along with Joe B. Allen, a partner at Vinson & Elkins. They would be among the first of Mr. Bush's "pioneers," the fund-raisers who each raised more than $100,000 for his campaign.
"Ken and Joe were some of the earliest supporters, and their support was crucial because they lined up others in Houston and Texas to give and to raise money," said a longtime Republican strategist. He described how Houston's political and fund-raising community adhered to the principle of "if I was going to help you with this political effort, or this charitable effort, you'd be willing to help mine."
If Houston does not rival New York or Los Angeles as a source of political dollars, it is still considered a big pot of riches, and one where nearly all the major corporations play the game. One prominent fund-raiser, Sue Walden, who in the last eight years has raised nearly $50 million from Enron and other energy companies, said elected officials often courted the companies to play host to $1,000-a-plate dinners at the Four Seasons Hotel. No one was in greater demand than Mr. Lay.
"Sometimes we would say Ken is overused and let's not do any for a while," Ms. Walden said.
Inside both Enron and Vinson & Elkins, political giving often seemed voluntary in name only. On June 15, 2000, Enron's political action committee sent a memo to employees suggesting "voluntary" contributions for Enron employees, from $500 for a low-level manager to $5,000 for a top executive. The memo said the money would assist the company as it faced numerous legal and regulatory challenges and a variety of environmental and tax issues.
One Enron employee, a Democrat, said the company's aggressive canvassing of employees helped explain why the company gave money to three-fourths of the senators and half of the House members for a total of more than $6 million since 1989. Enron and its political action committee contributed $113,800 to Mr. Bush's presidential campaign.
"The request is given to you by the managing director," the employee explained. "He encourages you to do it, knows if you've done it. The higher you go, the more pressure there is to give. I think it's distasteful."
A few blocks away at Vinson & Elkins, Mr. Allen, one of three "pioneers" among the firm's partners, led the political action committee. He is known at the firm for keeping careful track of the partners' and associates' contributions in what is called "the mystic book," a fund-raising ledger that got its name from Mr. Allen's predecessor, a man who had a ponytail and a tiny earring.
Joe Householder, a spokesman for the firm, said he was unaware of intense pressure brought to bear for contributions, noting that Mr. Allen "doesn't like to talk about it in great detail." As for the $202,850 that the firm gave to Mr. Bush's campaign, an amount trailing only MBNA America, the credit card bank in Wilmington, Del., Mr. Householder said such support should not be considered surprising.
"There is a lot of hometown pride here," he said, "and a lot of people in the firm thought he was a fine governor and he'd make a fine president."
Less conspicuous than the aggressive political fund-raising was the cross-pollination of employees between Enron and its lawyers and accountants. One Enron vice president, who was laid off in December, said Andersen often had as many as 250 employees working inside Enron's 50-story skyscraper. "They were involved in about everything there," the vice president said.
This physical proximity was accentuated by the fact that so many Enron employees had once worked at Andersen; at Mr. Skilling's old firm, McKinsey; and to a lesser degree at Vinson & Elkins. Enron's general counsel, James Derrick, had once been a Vinson & Elkins partner. The company's chief accounting officer, Richard A. Causey, had started at Andersen. 
"I remember them saying that once you got to a certain level at Andersen, they would suggest you tried to get hired by a lot of clients like Enron," the former Enron vice president said. "This would provide them with access to more accounting jobs."
Well beyond Enron's circle, the company's fall is painful for Houstonians, said M. Ray Perryman, an economic consultant. For self-conscious residents of this city, the nation's fourth largest, Enron offered a new kind of thinking that had an innate appeal: it was an entrepreneurial, high-tech company of the future in a town eager to grow beyond the booms and busts of its oil industry past. If Houston business leaders loved the technology gloss that the hometown computer maker Compaq gave to the city, Enron was loved even more.
"Enron was a real symbol to the city of the best of what Houston wanted to be," Mr. Perryman said. "It's starting with the old, taking the new, and you're building something huge and, seemingly, fantastic."
The rise of Mr. Lay and his company, Mr. Perryman said, typified the changeable nature of power in Texas, where old money does not have the monopoly on influence, and even outsiders like the older George Bush and Kenneth Lay, who is from Missouri, can rise rapidly to become part of the elite.
"People," he said, "do judge you more by your actions than by who your daddy was." 
Most Texans would argue that the intermingling of politics and business here is typical. One attorney for Vinson & Elkins argued, "Do you think it's any different from anything going on in L.A., or in Reagan's crowd? Or in Clinton's crowd?
"Folks are folks," he said.
But the story does have a larger-than-life local flavor, said Paul Burka, the senior executive editor of Texas Monthly magazine. "Maybe it's a classic Texas story," he said, "to push things to the limit."

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "An Intimate Houston Business Community . . ." Enron KENNETH L. LAYChairman, chief executive JEFFREY K. SKILLINGSecond in command, left in August ANDREW S. FASTOWChief financial officer, left in October RICHARD A. CAUSEYChief accounting officer WENDY L. GRAMMServes on board's auditing committee Vinson & ElkinsHouston-based corporate law firm. Enron was its biggest client. JOSEPH C. DILGChairman, oversaw Enron account for many years JOE B. ALLENLobbyist, lawyer THOMAS P. MARINIS JR.Lawyer, boyhood friend of President Bush RAY HUTCHISONLawyer ROBERT H. WHILDEN JR.Spent 39 years at Vinson & Elkins Arthur AndersonEnron's auditor fired this week. D. STEPHEN GODDARD JR.Managing partner of Houston's office DAVID B. DUNCANEnron audit leader, fired last week . . . And Some Influential Associates in Politics Washington GEORGE W. BUSHPresident DICK CHENEYVice President LAWRENCE B. LINDSEYBush's top economic counselor KARL ROVEBush's chief strategist THOMAS E. WHITESecretary of the Army ROBERT B. ZOELLICKU.S. trade representative PHIL GRAMMU.S. senator, R-Texas KAY BAILEY HUTCHISONU.S. senator R-Texas JAMES A. BAKERFormer secretary of state defended Bush in Florida Texas RICK PERRYGovernor MAX YZAGUIRRENamed by Perry to Public Utility Commission; resigned this week Republican Party MARC RACICOTParty chairman, former Montana governor Diagrams showing which individuals contributed more than $100,000 to Bush 2000 campaign, had significant Enron stock holdings, currently or formerly on Enron payroll, or as government official, supported some legislation favored by Enron (Sources: The Center for Public Integrity; Office of Government Ethics; Texans for Public Justice; news reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); BASEBALL (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LAWYERS (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); ETHICS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); CHAT ROOMS (50%) ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; FINANCES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VINSON & ELKINS LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (72%); OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT ETHICS (59%); HOUSTON TEXANS (59%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; VINSON & ELKINS; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RICK PERRY (79%); DICK CHENEY (78%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (70%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; SCHWARTZ, JOHN; YARDLEY, JIM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; HOUSTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



634 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Say Bush Aide Uses War for Political Gain 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 19 

 BODY:
Democratic leaders today pledged an election-year struggle over economics and domestic policy even as they assailed the president's chief political adviser for telling Republicans that President Bush's handling of terrorism could be an important campaign theme.
 In a fiery speech at the Democrats' winter meeting, Representative Richard A. Gephardt, the House minority leader, recalled how the two parties stood "shoulder to shoulder" in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attack. 
 He denounced as "a shameful statement" Mr. Rove's advice to Republicans at their own winter session in Austin, Tex., on Friday that on military and security issues they could "go to the country" because "Americans trust the Republican Party to do a better job of keeping our communities and families safe." 
"I hope the president will set the record straight," Mr. Gephardt said. "We've got to stand together against terrorism. This is no partisan issue."
With the hall cheering and applauding, he invoked the troops overseas and said: "These young people in Afghanistan are not fighting for the Democratic Party or the Republican Party. They're fighting for the greatest country that has ever existed on earth. That's the United States of America."
At the same time, Mr. Gephardt and other Democrats drew sharp battle lines with the president over the state of the economy, noting the return to federal deficits and the rise in unemployment in the year since Mr. Bush took office.
"We're not discussing anymore what to do with the surplus," Mr. Gephardt said. "The surplus is magically gone. Now, we're having that tired, troubled discussion that we used to have for 20 years of what are we going to do about the deficit? How are we going to save Social Security? What are we going to do about Medicare? How are we going to take care of health insurance for the unemployed?"
Mindy Tucker, a Republican spokeswoman, said Mr. Rove had simply been counseling Republicans that Mr. Bush had given them a positive record of accomplishments to run on, from his handling of the war on terrorism to his domestic agenda.
The Democrats met at the start of an unsettled election year with three dozen governors' offices and control of Congress at stake. Mr. Bush's approval ratings remain high, and Republicans believe his standing will help them at the polls. At the same time, the economy lags.
Democrats argued today that while they should stand with Mr. Bush in the battle against terrorism, they should strongly emphasize their own stands and values on domestic issues. "The president's current standing in the polls in no way suggests a national embrace of Republican ideas, which we know only weaken and divide the nation," said Terry McAuliffe, the chairman of the Democratic National Committee.
The Democrats showcased some of their victors in the 2001 election -- Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey; Mayor Rhine McLin of Dayton, Ohio; and the Los Angeles city attorney, Rocky Delgadillo -- to say they can win even as the country rallies around Mr. Bush in the war effort.
The party also approved a plan to protect Iowa's and New Hampshire's early and influential positions in the presidential selection process and speed up the primary process. The new calendar could lead to a nominee by mid-March or earlier, and its supporters said it would give the party time to unify to fight Mr. Bush.
Michigan had tried to end the two states' positions at the front of the primary calendar. "It's a perpetual privilege," Senator Carl Levin of Michigan said. "It's a privilege that no state should have." 
On display throughout the morning were signs of how the party planned to use the collapse of the energy trading company Enron to try to put Republicans on the defensive on issues including campaign finance, energy policy, Social Security and the re-emergence of federal deficits and to portray their opponents as the party of special interests.
"How about that Enron story?" Mr. McAuliffe said. "Folks, it's simply outrageous, and my heart goes out to the employees and shareholders who were victimized by a web of greed and deceit."
He said, "I do want to be fair though; there's no evidence yet that anyone in the Bush administration did anything improper in this case." But Mr. McAuliffe went on to draw what he called "interesting parallels between Enron and the administration it so generously supported."
"Think about it," he said, "risky investments, mountains of debt, accounting shenanigans and a little fuzzy math, then the folks at the top cash in while innocent working people are left holding the bag."
Democrats have blamed Mr. Bush's $1.35 trillion tax cut for the return of deficits.
Mr. Gephardt and Mr. McAuliffe, long one of his party's premier fund-raisers, also called for legislation banning the unlimited and unregulated donations to political parties known as soft money. Mr. Gephardt said, "We are going to clean up politics in this country once and for all."
Mr. McAuliffe challenged Marc Racicot, the new chairman of the Republican Party, to join him to support the overhaul of the finance law, calling it "an opportunity for some good to come out of the Enron mess." 
Mr. McAuliffe did not mention that Mr. Racicot himself had been a lobbyist for Enron. Mr. Racicot decided under criticism to stop any lobbying work while he was party chairman. But Mr. Gephardt, accusing House Republicans of trying to enact big tax breaks for corporations, said, "Maybe we wouldn't expect anything more out of a party that's now led by a highly paid lobbyist."
The campaign finance measure, sponsored by Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Russell D. Feingold, Democrat of Wisconsin, passed in the Senate last year after years of stalemate. But it stalled in the House.
Republican leaders oppose the measure, saying it infringes on rights of free speech and will weaken the political parties. Ms. Tucker faulted the McCain-Feingold bill again today and said Republicans would support only a measure that "doesn't deny people the ability to participate in the process." 
Republicans have struck back on the economy by repeatedly accusing Democrats of wanting to raise taxes.
Mr. McAuliffe sought to protect his party from that charge today, saying "Republicans will get away with these distortions over our dead bodies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard A. Gephardt, right, with Terry McAuliffe at the Democratic National Committee meeting yesterday. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); MEDICARE (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KARL ROVE (78%) MITCHELL, ALISON; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GEPHARDT, RICHARD A (REP); ROVE, KARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2002 



635 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: The Farm Bill Charade 

BYLINE:  By Dick Lugar; Dick Lugar, Republican senator from Indiana, grows corn, soybeans and trees.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When the Senate resumes its session this week, boosters of the Daschle-Harkin farm bill, supported by almost the entire agriculture lobby, will demand the bill's swift passage. This would be a serious public policy mistake that would harm most farmers and their fellow citizens.
 Passage of the Daschle-Harkin bill would halt attempts to reform America's distorted agricultural policy. It would, indeed, commit still more money to that policy: adding $73.5 billion, over 10 years, on top of the $98.5 billion that would go to maintaining current programs. Such huge increases are out of line at a time when the United States is fighting a sluggish economy and a life-or-death war on terrorism. 
 Ineffective agricultural policy has, over the years, led to a ritual of overproduction in many crops and most certainly in the heavily supported crops of corn, wheat, cotton, rice and soybeans and the protected speciality products like milk, sugar and peanuts. The government has provided essentially a guaranteed income to producers of these crops. So those farmers keep producing more crops than the market wants, which keeps the price low -- so low that these farmers continually ask the government for more subsidies, which they get.
American agricultural policy distorts food prices, frustrates innovation, limits product diversity and subsidizes a select group of farmers at enormous public cost. Its inherent protectionist qualities confound American efforts to reduce protectionism abroad and gain access to new markets.
This policy also exacerbates the consolidation of farm ownership, with the concentration of benefits going to a minority of farmers in a handful of states. The majority of payments in most states go to the top tenth of farmers. In Texas, the largest 10 percent of farms receive 70 percent of federal payments. Farmers in just six states -- Iowa, Illinois, Texas, Kansas, Nebraska and Minnesota -- will receive almost half of these payments.
In states where these crops are not grown, most farmers are out of luck. For example, in California only 9 percent of farmers receive subsidies; in Florida, only 8 percent; and in New Jersey, only 7 percent.
Why is this situation possible, in political terms? The main factor is a concern among lawmakers of both parties that power in Congress could hinge on a few races in heavily subsidized agricultural regions. If either party stands in the way of this largess, they risk being labeled the "anti-farm party" and targeted with sentimental imagery associated with farm failures. Thus, conservative budget hawks and liberal social welfare advocates alike subordinate their usual priorities to help their parties pay off wealthy farmers regardless of need, policy justification or even a realistic assessment of how to strengthen small farms.
Second, agriculture policy is complex enough that the need for reform is difficult to get across to voters, the vast majority of whom are being asked to pay for the subsidies while getting little in return. Even if only a small number of farmers in a state raise a subsidized or protected crop, their focused advocacy has much more political influence than the broader well-being of Americans. In short, those who benefit from current agriculture programs are virtually the only participants in the debate.
My own advocacy for reform is grounded in the ownership and management of my 604-acre Indiana farm. I know the difficulties of making a living from farming. I can also understand that when farmers experience bad weather or the collapse of a foreign market, Congress is rarely able to resist emotional appeals for relief.
That is why in this debate I have suggested an alternative safety net for all crop and livestock farmers and ranchers. Each farmer would receive a federal payment equaling 6 percent of total farm receipts. This would enable the farmer to pay the premium for whole-farm income insurance that would provide assurance of 80 percent of an average income taken over a five-year period.
Such a program would be fair to every farm family in every state and substantially less expensive than $172 billion over 10 years. It would be more market-oriented than Daschle-Harkin. It would allow farmers more choice while still providing a federal safety net.
My first try at this plan failed by a vote of 70 to 30. Even efforts to shift some resources from subsidizing crops to soil and water conservation, nutrition programs for the hungry, rural development and agriculture research have lacked sufficient support in the Senate Agriculture Committee or on the Senate floor.
All of the above is just as bleak as it seems. If agricultural policy is to change, new forces must become engaged -- for example, groups that seek to protect consumers, taxpayers, the environment, Social Security or the poor. In the absence of such mobilization or late leadership from the Bush administration, a bloated farm bill will become law.
Despite wartime conditions and the fact that the existing legislation does not expire until October, the Senate assigned virtual emergency status to the bill in an effort to lock in the $172 billion. Only demands by some Republicans who wanted to consider amendments on payment limits, water rights and a few other miscellaneous provisions prevented a stampede to passage before Christmas.
Agriculture policy is too important for rural America and the economic and budgetary health of our country for us to continue down the current misguided path. I am prepared again to offer a fairer plan, one that increases farm exports, avoids stimulating overproduction and gives more emphasis to environmental, nutritional and research concerns. We can bring vitality back to rural America without perpetuating the spiral of counterproductive subsidies.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); BUDGETS (76%); FOOD PRICES (73%); CORN FARMING (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (67%); TERRORISM (54%) AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (79%); TOM HARKIN (79%); DICK LUGAR (58%) LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); HARKIN, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



636 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Software that screens trading partners for myriad terror links, as well as for compliance with trade rules abroad.

BYLINE:  By Sherri Day 

 BODY:
IN the months after Sept. 11, companies have scrambled to make sure they are not unknowingly doing business with terrorist organizations.
 To avoid questionable customers and stay in line with the law, companies have long relied on lists from the Commerce, Treasury and State Departments. Combined, these lists contain over 15,500 names, aliases and addresses. In recent weeks alone, more than 600 names and aliases of suspected terrorists have been added. And making things even more complicated, each agency updates its own list on its own schedule, forcing companies to peruse them daily to avoid falling into violation. 
 As a result, companies both here and abroad are turning to software to ferret out blacklisted parties and help navigate the increasingly cumbersome import and export regulations around the world. Though many exporters have used this kind of screening software for years, the September attacks have intensified the need.
"Sept. 11 was an accelerant to an existing trend," said Peter V. Coleman, a senior analyst who covers supply-chain technology at Banc of America Securities. "For some time now, Customs has had to focus more and more of its efforts on the enforcement end of the business. Pre-Sept. 11 it was drugs; post-Sept. 11, it's terrorism." The result, he added, is that the Customs Service is expecting a far heavier amount of compliance from shippers on a broader number of fronts.
Industry executives say Vastera, a company that is quietly increasing its customer base and its market value, is the world's leader among the dozen or so companies selling trade-compliance software. Based in Dulles, Va., Vastera has watched its stock price rise nearly 100 percent since it went public in October 2000.
In addition to its screening software, Vastera markets software that provides customers with updated international trade-compliance information and shipping documents covering more than 190 countries. Companies that fail to meet customs requirements could be forced to pay fines and, more important, lose exporting and importing privileges.
Vastera insists it is not trying to profit from the terrorist attacks, but executives there say they have seen a spike in interest in their products.
"It's brought a heightened awareness around the challenge of doing business globally and what it takes to do business globally," said Mark J. Ferrer, Vastera's president and chief operating officer. "Prior to this, we were in much more of an evangelical education mode. Now because of the heightened compliance awareness, companies are looking at this and saying, 'How do I do this economically?' "
Two years ago, Vastera began offering consulting services for companies' trade-compliance departments. In essence, Vastera executives manage the companies' product-classification and shipment processes, checking international regulations to move products through customs more quickly. Vastera now runs the trade-compliance departments of Lucent, Visteon and Ford, among others.
Ford, which has used Vastera's services for two years, says the products have ensured a smoother customs process.
"In times past, we would make errors in the initial submission, and we would eventually go back and find the error and get the money, but that might be months or years later," said Frank Taylor, who overseas material planning and logistics at Ford. "They have provided us with the capacity to get it right the first time, so overpayment of duties is far far less than what it was in the past, and that's a huge cash-flow issue."
As governments place more responsibility on companies to police their clients, Vastera and the sector as a whole can expect tremendous growth, analysts say. Vastera's closest competitors, the NextLink Corporation and ClearCross, are both privately traded and about a third the size of Vastera and have had a surge in inquiries about their products.
But analysts say the increase in interest has yet to turn into a quantifiable spike in revenue. Vastera will report its fourth quarter earnings on Jan. 24 and and has forecast revenue of between $18.8 million to $19.2 million for the quarter. The company estimates that it will break even by the second quarter and post year-end revenue of $90 million to $95 million, up from $62.5 million to $63 million in 2001.
Vastera, founded in 1992, employs more than 476 workers and has offices in six countries including Germany, Japan, Britain and Mexico. Users of its software, called TradeSphere, include Microsoft, Dell Computer and the Fonterra Group, formerly the New Zealand Dairy Board.
The TradeSphere software includes six programs on topics like logistics and financial exchange. Its most basic function is the screening of names of entities that may be on the nation's list of potential threats; its most complicated can completely automate the compliance process for specific trade pacts, like the North American Free Trade Agreement.
Users can either pay a one-time fee for the software and receive electronic updates, or they can subscribe to Web-based software and pay a per-transaction or a monthly fee.
Vastera's small to medium-size clients usually spend $30,000 to $50,000 a year on its software, the company said. But its average deal for the first three quarters of 2001 was $450,000 to $500,000 for larger companies, with some paying as much as $15 million a year for Vastera to run their compliance departments.
While Vastera's customers say the software has helped streamline their compliance procedures, they caution that users must still have a working knowledge of trade laws and restrictions.
"It's nice to have the tool, but the company needs to be well educated so that the compliance department understands the technical aspects of its product in order to classify it according to the U.S. Department of Commerce's rules and regulations," said Dee Gonzales, the global logistics manager at Xilinx, which sells semiconductors.
It is precisely the complexity of matching the right classification to products and creating flawless shipping documents that will sail past customs, that has more companies turning over their compliance responsibilities to contractors like Vastera. Analysts say it will be the next major trend in international trade.
"It's an enormous challenge just in the U.S., because we know the rules can change any day without any way to predict that they're changing, and we know that they change frequently and we know that they often are rule changes that take effect immediately," said Larry Christensen, Vastera's vice president for trade content. "The additional element that makes this logarithmically more complicated is you have to deal with the rules of each country, and each country could change its rules each day."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark J. Ferrer, president of Vastera, whose business is up since Sept. 11. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); IMPORT TRADE (88%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (88%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (77%); EXPORT CONTROLS (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); NEW ECONOMY (72%); AIRPORTS (72%); AIRLINES (70%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (69%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); RELIGION (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TERRORISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); VISTEON CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: VASTERA 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); VC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



637 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Multifaceted Antiques Show Only Burnished by Adversity

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
It's strange how making the best of things sometimes makes them better than usual. This feat has been achieved by the 48th Annual Winter Antiques Show with its unplanned relocation to the New York Hilton on the Avenue of the Americas at 53rd Street. 
 The move was necessitated by last fall's mobilization of the Seventh Regiment Armory on Park Avenue at 67th Street. The art and antiques fairs that call the armory home were thrown into disarray, and the cancellations included the prestigious International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show. 
 But the Winter Antiques Show prevailed, building itself from scratch at the Hilton in half the usual time and without benefit of the armory's ground-floor drive-in accessibility. Until Sunday it occupies two huge ballrooms connected by escalators on the hotel's third and fourth floors. 
The two-tiered floor plan and traffic flow are trickier. The slightly drafty, big-as-all-outdoors spaciousness of the armory is definitely absent. But the dealers have taken great care with their presentations. The booths are handsome and unusually solid, like a series of connecting rooms in stylistically clashing houses. Much of the material is superb, starting with a little loan show of five imposing high chests from the Winterthur Museum, their cabriole legs akimbo, their broken-pediment scroll tops running the gamut from plain to fancy and culminating in one with open fretting forming slightly relaxed triangular grids. 
And true to its name, the show even managed an impressive display of unusually seasonal winter weather just in time for the opening night gala, which continued the tradition of benefiting the East Side House Settlement.
Absent the International show, this is the season's chance to range under a single roof across several continents, dozens of centuries and scores of styles in an atmosphere akin to a regional debating competition. After all, if East Hampton in summer is high school with money, then a good art fair might be described as high school with money and taste. Or maybe the first year of college: roaming an art fair can be like knocking around the halls of an institution that is part museum, part art history seminar and all marketplace, a place in which art's commodity status and the less tangible, more pleasurable reasons for its commodity status, are in full display. 
For a clear-eyed view of art-as-commodity and of the fluidity and power endemic to cultural exchange, start with the Martyn Gregory booth just inside the entrance. It brims with interesting China trade paintings that often sum up the economic realities in crystalline, Caneletto-like panoramas of European style architecture. It is New Orleans? Maybe Venice? No, it's "A View of the American Settlement at Shanghai" or "Canton: The Western Factories" or a tiny, exquisitely lighted harbor view of Whampao, which shows a deep-water anchorage eight miles down the Pearl River from Canton. Don't miss a tiny portrait by Chen Shi Feng of an American gentleman relaxing with a cup of tea from 1861; it is a beguiling mix of East, West, academic and naive. 
In addition to the China trade, the show's recurring themes include the contrast and overlap of folk art and highly skilled art. Leigh Keno, specialist in American antiques, is showing an impressive high chest of his own. But he also has a marvelous carved, painted 18th-century figure, 13 inches high, of a man in a waistcoat, and a small tiger maple table painted with a landscape. Between these extremes is a Federal giltwood mirror whose wiry decorations have a definite folk feeling, especially compared with the more conventionally sculptural giltwood mirror on Mr. Keno's main wall. 
Along the painted furniture trail, don't miss the exquisitely lavish examples of Chinese lacquered furniture, again made for European tastes, at Devenish and at Mallett, or the early-18th-century Italian armoire with painted decoration in a manner of Jean Berain at Foster-Gwin, one of the show's first-time participants. (Also of interest are a pair of comically fierce 18th-century faience lions, once owned by Tony Duquette, and four French wall candelabras from the 1940's but made of bits of Baroque glass and crystal gloss and crystal.) 
For American painted furniture, stop by Olde Hope Antiques, Giampietro or Courcier & Wilkins, where a small painted table with bulging corners and turned legs disrupts the sphinxlike serenity of several exemplary Shaker pieces and some Connecticut basketry. (Its boisterousness is echoed by one of the show's centerpieces: an enormous wool rug of a map of Cape Cod from 1944.)
At Robert Young Antiques, a London dealer of European folk art and another first-timer, there are two outstanding painted marriage chests. One is a two-door cupboard from northern Austria on which delicate trompe l'oeil plaques painted with flowers are surrounded by dark green marbleizing so clunky it creates a forestlike mass. 
The other is a truly ravishing painted chest from Jersey in the Channel Islands, with cabriole legs and tulip and rose motifs in pale red and blue finished with feathery white lines. It will make you think of French peasant furniture as well as Pennsylvania German decoration, but its similarities to certain early 18th-century Connecticut chests attributed to a Jersey immigrant named Charles Guillaume have especially intrigued scholars. 
The Young and Courcier Wilkins booths are among several where every object on display rewards scrutiny. Of similar caliber, but more monographic in focus is Elle Shushan's brocade-lined display of American and European miniatures (note the portrait by Mrs. Moses B. Russell from 1845); the cache of illuminated pages and several books of hours at Les Enluminures; and the display of English silver at S. J. Shrubsole, which is capped by a rare silver-gilt Elizabethan tankard.
Approaching museum quality is the profusion of American and English schoolgirl needlework (85 pieces) from the 17th, 18th and early 19th centuries at Stephen and Carol Huber; one of my favorites is a 1710 embroidery in silk and metallic thread of four flowers that resembles a botanical study.
The quality in the non-European booths is high. At Donald Ellis, among a series of impressive Eskimo masks, don't miss a cluster of startlingly modern ninth-century Peruvian votive plaques of ceramic painted with geometric motifs. Throckmorton has a Nasca shaman's poncho in red, yellow and blue feathers, an unusually realistic Aztec head in basalt and four Indonesian tie-dye ceremonial wedding cloths whose luminous colors and central soft-edged rectangles can evoke the work of Mark Rothko. Equally engrossing is the American Indian material nearby at Morning Star, including several earthenware storage jars, especially the example of circa-1840 blackware (in the booth's far upper right corner) from the San Juan Pueblo. In between Throckmorton and Morning Star is another outstanding newcomer, Rupert Wace Ancient Art, with a display that roams the ancient world and culminates in the most expensive piece in the show, a Hellenistic hollow-cast bronze male nude, possibly Poseidon, about three-quarters human size, beautifully muscled and intact down to its inlaid eyes. Priced at $4 million, it is being sold by the British Radio Pension Fund and is said to be the last such work of its quality in private hands. 
What else? Plenty. At Mallett, an enormous silk needlework of the life of David may catch your eye. At Barry Friedman, a pair of jangly Czech Cubist-flavor chairs vie for attention with an astounding water basin by Rupert Carabin in wood and glazed ceramic, replete with a bulging water bag topped off by a nymph. At the Fine Art Society, three works by Walter Sickert flank a large 1884 painting of Niagara Falls in winter by Paul Calderon Cameron, finished off in fat but careful white brush strokes. At Associated Artists, center stage is held by a rare Herter Brothers side chair from the spare-no-extravagance William H. Vanderbilt commission, a giltwood concoction with mother of pearl inlay. An inadvertent Gustav Stickley fest is formed by Geoffrey Diner and, three aisles away, Cathers & Dembrosky, where one high point is a monumental table lamp in brass, iron and hammered amber glass. And winning the award for overcrowded clarity is Roger Keverne's display of things Chinese, from Han lead-glazed jars and vitrines of carved jade and Song celedon and blackware, to 18th-century cloisonne wall vases that quote earlier ceramics or bronzes, or both. Mr. Keverne's booth is one of serveral here that could take up your entire visit if you let them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rare Herter Brothers side chair with mother-of-pearl inlay, from the William H. Vanderbilt commission. (Associated Artists) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (77%); PAINTING (77%); ART DEALERS (75%); ART HISTORY (71%); HISTORY (70%); EXHIBITIONS (70%) ANTIQUES; SHOWS (EXHIBITS); WINTER ANTIQUES SHOW 

ORGANIZATION: HILTON HOTELS CORP 

PERSON: SMITH, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); EAST CHINA (50%) UNITED STATES (91%); CHINA (75%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



638 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: Accidents at Uranium Plant Raise Concern in Australia 

BYLINE:  By BECKY GAYLORD 

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
A uranium processing plant in southwestern Australia that is owned by an American company has had a series of accidents involving radioactive material, the South Australia state government says. 
 The plant, run by Heathgate Resources, a unit of the American company General Atomics, is at the Beverley uranium mine, about 340 miles north of Adelaide. It has been in operation for less than two years. 
 A government briefing memo last week marked "urgent" described the most recent accident. As the plant was being shut down for maintenance on the night of Jan. 11, intake pumps continued to operate. Pressure built up, which ruptured a pipe and splashed 16,000 gallons of radioactive fluid around the plant. A small amount of the liquid flowed under a fence and onto a road that rings the plant. There were no injuries, the company and the state government said. 
State officials, who said they were reviewing their reporting policies, said there had been 24 previous spills at the site. Three were larger than 500 gallons, but the state's minerals and energy minister had not been told of any of the accidents previously because they were classified as minor by inspectors. 
The most recent spill drew attention to the fact that there is no mandatory public notification of radioactive liquid spills, said the state treasurer, Rob Lucas, standing in for the minerals and energy minister, Wayne Matthew, who was on vacation when the spill occurred. The plant has yet to resume full production. 
With a state election just a few weeks away, the accident has focused attention on this mineral-rich nation's struggle to strike a balance between encouraging lucrative uranium production and protecting the environment.
Australia is the second-largest producer of uranium, after Canada, and exports more than 20 percent of all uranium mined, according to government data. 
Several of its mines, however, are near ecologically sensitive areas. 
The deposits at Beverley, which are extracted by pumping a sulphuric acid solution into the ground and leaching out the uranium, sit near a huge underwater lake called the Great Artesian Basin. 
Monitoring these mines has been left to the states so far. Yet the state's environmental protection agency does not have formal monitoring procedures for uranium production, nor does any department of the federal government. 
Rather, the job largely rests with the state's chief mining inspector, who is informed of spills and judges whether to pass the information on to the radiation protection branch in the state health department or to the energy minister.
Heathgate Resources contends that it is held to strict reporting procedures, and that it abides by them. 
"This is the most regulated industry in the country," said Stephen Middleton, a vice president. He insisted that the company reported all spills. "We're talking about low levels of radioactive solutions," he said. "The people who understand the process are making the decision that this is of no consequence; no need to wake the minister up and tell him."
Only the largest and most recent of the spills contained dissolved uranium, Mr. Matthew said on Wednesday, and that was why it was the only one referred to him.
Heathgate has promised to remove the contaminated soil from inside and outside the plant, the government memo said, and dispose of it in approved contaminated waste areas. The company would also build an earthen dike around the plant to stop any liquid from escaping the site in the future, it said.
David Blight, executive director of the state's minerals and energy resources office, said his inspectors had looked at the site since the spill. "Our view here is that there's been no damage to the environment," he said in an interview.
Mr. Blight's office, however, is the lead agency trying to bring about mineral and petroleum exploration and development in the state. Its operations include actively seeking investors for these industries and luring companies that would provide income to the state.
Those goals, critics charge, clash with a monitoring role. John Hill, the state environment spokesman for the opposition Labor Party, said mining had always been a sacred cow in Australia. Planning laws that would apply to any other development did not apply to mining, he said. "The minister has huge executive powers," he said. "It's just a bit too cozy at the moment."
Conservation groups concur. "Any industrial operation is going to have leaks and spills," said David Sweeney of the Australian Conservation Foundation. "The problem with this is that the product is radioactive."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2002

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about a uranium processing plant in Australia that was a scene of several accidents misstated the location. It is in southern Australia, not southwestern.

GRAPHIC: Map of Australia highlighting the Beverley plant: There have been more than 20 accidents at the Beverley plant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); URANIUM MINING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%) ATOMIC ENERGY; URANIUM; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: GENERAL ATOMICS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ATOMICS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS926110 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (58%); SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (58%)

PERSON: GAYLORD, BECKY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (58%) SOUTH AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (92%); NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



639 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Gathering at the River To Save an Ailing Park; 
Ministers Lead East Side Restoration, And Millions of Dollars Follow

BYLINE:  By BARBARA STEWART 

 BODY:
After decades of neglect, East River Park has been having a run of good luck.
 What started five years ago as an effort by neighborhood churches to repair broken fixtures has ballooned into a full-scale renovation involving businesses, television producers and City Hall. The attention has also brought in money: $15 million from the city in funds already being spent, and an additional $42 million earmarked in this year's budget. In addition, materials and services worth $5 million were donated last month by Manhattan businesses. 
 "East River Park should be the jewel of the East River," said the Rev. Getulio Cruz, pastor of Monte Sion Christian Church and a member of the original group. "It should be at the same level as Battery Park."
East River Park, built during the Depression by the Works Progress Administration, was once one of New York City's most elegant large parks, with a mile-long riverfront promenade and an amphitheater that was the home of Joseph Papp's Shakespeare in the Park at its inception in the mid-1950's.
The 55-acre park, sandwiched between low-income housing projects and the Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive on the west and the river on the east, quickly became the recreation center for the East Village and the Lower East Side. It has eight ball fields, 12 tennis courts and the only full-size soccer field below 14th Street, all of which are crowded throughout the day during warm weather.
The park began to deteriorate 30 years ago during the city's fiscal emergencies. By the early 1980's, the amphitheater, crumbling and often vandalized, was shut down. While some small improvements were made in the next two decades -- a period when the Parks Department's budget and staff were significantly cut -- the park was largely neglected.
In 1997, clergy members from 18 neighborhood congregations and Union Theological Seminary got together and formed a group called Lower Manhattan Together. It was a branch of the Industrial Areas Foundation, a nationwide urban renewal group responsible for building thousands of low-income homes in Brooklyn and the Bronx. The clergy members wanted to improve the neighborhood, and their first project was the park.
"It was in bad shape and the city was ignoring it," Mr. Cruz said. "The Little Leagues, the soccer -- the children had nowhere else to play."
But most of the group members were inexperienced in dealing with politics and city officials, so progress was slow. "We'd never done this," Mr. Cruz said. "Most of us had just preached from pulpits."
Lower Manhattan Together pressed the city to fix the park's bathrooms, streetlights and emergency call boxes. It took two years to do it. 
When the work was done, they set their sights higher, lobbying for a complete renovation of the park, a huge project. To their surprise, they succeeded -- with luck, good timing and the help of the Industrial Areas Foundation, which had a long relationship with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
In the two years that they struggled to get basic repairs for the park, the foundation was feuding with the mayor, but in 1999, Mr. Giuliani agreed to major renovations, said Joe Morris, director of Lower Manhattan Together.
"He said he used to play ball there when he was a kid," Mr. Morris said.
The city is building new basketball courts, ball fields, a bicycle path and a roller hockey rink in the park. The project design, by George Vellonikas, the landscape architect, includes new landscaping and the restoration of Depression-era ornamental details.
In addition, work should start soon on the $42 million repair of the 1.3-mile seawall and the reconstruction of the promenade on top of the crumbling sea wall, which was closed last year for safety reasons. There are also plans to build a recreation center on Pier 42 on the south end of the park, though no money for that has been allotted.
The East River Park project got another boost last month when "Challenge America," an ABC television program that gathers volunteers for big civic projects to videotape the work and create a program from it, pitched in to rebuild the amphitheater and eroded soccer field. They recruited architects, engineers, planners, laborers, materials and meals. 
The volunteers worked around the clock for six days to meet the television show's deadline. The result was a new amphitheater and a reconstructed soccer field with artificial turf. The labor and materials were valued at about $5 million, according to the Parks Department. 
It is unusual for a neighborhood improvement group to succeed in a project of such scope and expense, though many try. "There are a lot of citizen's groups out there who are trying to get a lot of things done," said Adrian Benepe, the Manhattan parks commissioner. Many neighborhood organizations struggle for years to accomplish much smaller projects, he added. 
Certainly in 1997, such success seemed unlikely. The clergy members spent four months trying to get an appointment with Parks Commissioner Henry J. Stern. Finally, applying the tactics taught to them by veterans of the Industrial Areas Foundation, 18 clergy members, wearing clerical black, walked into Parks Department headquarters and asked to see Mr. Stern.
"Because we were ministers," said the Rev. Neil Connolly of St. Mary's Catholic Church, "they let us walk up to his office."
Mr. Stern was out, and the group was sent to see Mr. Benepe, where they used another newly learned tactic.
"He tried to brush us off," said Father Connolly. "We stood up and walked out. It was very rude, I must admit. For those of us who were clergy, it was very difficult to be so rude."
Soon after, they used similarly brusque tactics with Mr. Stern. But when they succeeded in getting money from Mayor Giuliani for the park renovation, Mr. Stern thanked them.
With the East River Park construction under way, the clergy and congregation members have moved on to other projects. The success of the park, said Mr. Cruz, was greatly encouraging.
"When we first started," he said, "we had these dreams. But we never thought we would see so much happening so fast. It's given us a larger appetite. We want to do more, in housing and education."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before renovations, East River Park endured years of municipal neglect. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B2); Martin Jackson, left, taking part in a vast repair project at East River Park, which has badly deteriorated since it was the home of Joseph Papp's original Shakespeare in the Park. The park, on the Lower East Side, is undergoing a multimillion-dollar renovation begun five years ago by churches in the area.; Projects include a new amphitheater, above, replacing one suffering from poor maintenance and vandalism, and a new jogging track and artificial-turf expanse, below, at the north end of the 55-acre park. (Photographs by Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times)(pg. B1) Map of New York highlights the East River Park. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); RELIGION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CHARITIES (77%); CITIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); THEATER (72%); CHILDREN (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (71%); VANDALISM (69%); SOCCER (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); LOBBYING (66%); YOUTH SPORTS (65%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; PHILANTHROPY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEWART, BARBARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) EAST RIVER PARK (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



640 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Politics, Polemics And Welfare

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

 BODY:
THE temptation is to shout RELAX! CHILL! New York City is coping with growing unemployment, fewer jobs, more homelessness, and the impact of a terrorist attack. Enough for any city. But not for New York. It insists on playing an ideological blame game, too, which turns the already complicated into the impossibly murky.
 One debate centers on whether the welfare population is growing, the other on the fate of thousands of former welfare recipients now working in city parks. 
 Welfare first. The city's Independent Budget Office reported last week that welfare rolls grew by several thousand in October and November for first time in six years, and predicted that they would continue to rise for the next several months.
The budget office attributed the increase of 1 percent (5,000 people) to job losses because of the terrorist attack and the recession. The office concluded that despite the weakened economy, the welfare growth rate should be relatively modest because of the Giuliani administration's strict welfare policies.
The report nonetheless drew cries of alarm from both sides of the ideological aisle, the strongest from Giuliani supporters, who fault the budget office because it did not consider last fall's moratorium on closing welfare cases.
The former mayor ordered the moratorium after Sept. 11 to make sure that in the turmoil, and with computers shut down by the attack, no one was hastily tossed off the welfare rolls. The existence of the moratorium was not widely known, and the Independent Budget Office, saying it was unaware of it, in fact did not consider that at least temporarily, the welfare rolls were receiving new clients without losing old ones.
That must have made the welfare population artificially high in October and November. But on the other side of the ledger, other welfare recipients lost their benefits as they reached the five-year federal limit, and didn't meet a deadline to transfer to the state's safety net. It is likely they will return to the rolls.
Where are we now? The numbers show that in December, after the welfare computers went back into action and the Giuliani moratorium ended, the welfare population continued its pre-Sept. 11 decline, but it is not known whether that is because the numbers are really declining or are artificially low because people had problems making the transition to the state program.
There are so many ambiguities that the budget office would have been wise to avoid even its modest prediction of a welfare increase to 530,000 from 464,000 by next September. But it is a good guess that more people will be needing public assistance. History teaches that when jobs disappear and unemployment rises, more people turn to welfare. Hence, the safety net. But there is no basis yet for panicky alarms or charges of government neglect.
THE same might be said of the dispute over 3,500 former welfare recipients who are earning $9.38 an hour (and paying union dues) to work in city parks. They and their union contend that they are going to lose their jobs because of a last-minute edict from the Giuliani welfare commissioner, Jason A. Turner. Other former welfare recipients who were promised city jobs will now not get them, either.
Could this be true? Not quite. The employees were hired to work for 11 1/2 months in city parks through a federally financed program. All can complete their assignments. There is no plan to fire any of them, nor is there evidence that there was ever a plan to keep them on beyond 11 1/2 months. 
The first 200 workers will finish at the end of next month, and the program ends in November. As the workers complete their assignments, they can try for a permanent parks job, if the city budget allows; they can job-hunt on their own; or they can reapply for welfare.
Those options have not changed, but there is one other. In October, Mr. Turner granted a contract to an employment agency to find these employees, and others who have reached their federal time limits, permanent jobs paying only $7.95 an hour.
Mark Rosenthal, president of the union local that represents seasonal parks workers, advised Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to cancel the contract and extend the 3,500 parks jobs. Mayoral advisers say they are examining the contract, and trying to devise the best way to find real jobs for former welfare recipients, but aren't convinced that a permanently subsidized work force is the answer.
Maybe not. Neither is New York's inevitable habit of exaggerating the politics and polemics of helping the needy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); MAYORS (70%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (56%) WELFARE (US); TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



641 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Reporter and Civic Leader in Runoff to Be Mayor of Dallas 

BYLINE:  By ROSS E. MILLOY 

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., Jan. 20 

 BODY:
Dallas voters have forced a runoff election between Laura Miller, a former journalist whose confrontational style has become the biggest issue in the race for mayor, and Tom Dunning, a civic leader.
 No candidate won more than 50 percent of the vote in a special election on Saturday. 
 "I was obviously very pleased that I ran 10 points ahead of my opponent, Mr. Dunning, and now what we need to do is get our very passionate supporters back for the runoff," Ms. Miller said today. 
Although Ms. Miller, 43, did not win outright, she came close, taking 48.8 percent of votes, versus 38.8 percent for Mr. Dunning. Domingo Garcia, a former City Council member, took 11.1 percent. Two other candidates together garnered less than 2 percent of the votes.
"This is exactly what we wanted, to get her into a runoff," said Carol Reed, Mr. Dunning's chief campaign consultant.
At a news conference this afternoon, Mr. Garcia -- whose campaign had tried to forge a coalition of black and Hispanic voters -- endorsed Mr. Dunning, a former chairman of the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport board.
Mr. Dunning, 59, is backed by large segments of the Dallas business community and campaigned on themes of economic expansion and consensus building. Ms. Miller highlighted her role as an outsider, promising to focus on basic city services and to improve the police department.
"Our message will be the same in the runoff as it was during the election: there are important differences in their styles of leadership," Ms. Reed said.
The winner of the Feb. 16 runoff election will serve 15 months, finishing the term of former mayor Ron Kirk, who resigned in November to run for the United States Senate.
Local interest in the nonpartisan race has been intense, fueled by Ms. Miller's reputation as a gadfly during her three and a half years on the City Council, and campaign advertisements by Mr. Dunning that attacked her opposition to city financing for a 1998 Veterans Day parade.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laura Miller won 48.8 percent of the votes in the race for mayor of Dallas and will face Tom Dunning, who won 38.8 percent, in a runoff. (Vernon Bryant/The Dallas Morning News); (Cheryl Diaz Meyer/The Dallas Morning News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); MAYORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WRITERS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); AIRPORTS (52%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (51%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS 

PERSON: RON KIRK (59%) MILLOY, ROSS E; MILLER, LAURA; DUNNING, TOM; GARCIA, DOMINGO 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (95%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) DALLAS (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



642 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: An Honorable Man 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
Henry Reuss, a thoughtful and creative congressman who represented the North Side of Milwaukee for nearly three decades, titled his 1999 memoir "When Government Was Good."
 Mr. Reuss, 89, died Jan. 12 in San Rafael, Calif. He was an interesting figure but was not well known nationally at the time of his death. 
 In his memoir he looked back with both fondness and pride at what he described as a "golden age" in the United States, extending roughly from 1948 to 1968. During that period -- when the country was led successively by Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson -- full employment was achieved with very low inflation, laws were changed to secure the civil rights of blacks and other ethnic minorities, the Marshall Plan was implemented, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization was established and, despite the cold war, a nuclear conflict was avoided.
Mr. Reuss did not suggest that all was well in those years. McCarthyism was rampant for a while, and there was the tragedy of Vietnam. And resistance to the movement toward equal rights was strong. 
But he felt the great questions of the postwar era were engaged by men and women of integrity, and there were only minimal efforts to dismantle important gains once they were achieved. Eisenhower may not have been thrilled with the Brown v. Board of Education ruling, but he enforced the law.
In Mr. Reuss's view, a good government was a liberal government. He served in Congress from 1955 to 1983, and seemed perfectly happy to exhibit the courage of his liberal convictions. There is a widespread view now that there is something wrong with being liberal. Liberals have locked themselves in the closet, afraid of being called names. They should come out. They've nothing to be ashamed of. The word liberal was made dirty by those who were unworthy of it.
As a public official, Henry Reuss was a very valuable asset. He was a fundamentally decent man who believed in a free and open and unbought government that would seek, through honest debate, the best and fairest answers to the problems of the citizenry. We would all be better off if there were many more like him. 
He was an opponent of Joe McCarthy and the war in Vietnam. He was a staunch supporter of civil rights and a tireless advocate of environmental protection. He favored reform of the campaign finance system. And, as chairman of the House Banking Committee, was a proponent of tighter credit controls and increased disclosure of banking activity.
In his obituary in The Times last week, Mr. Reuss was described by one of his colleagues in the House, David Obey of Wisconsin, as "a crusader for financial regulation to keep the big boys honest."
Said Mr. Obey: "He would have been out to skin somebody alive for the way Enron double-dealt on their securities operation."
Mr. Reuss was appalled by the shenanigans of the Reagan administration, and by the Democrats who tagged along on that irresponsible ride. It ended, he wrote, with a "reckless" increase in the national debt and "a lurch toward greater economic inequality."
Mr. Reuss was an idealist who believed certain values should be embodied in the national government. He did not see mean-spiritedness as one of those values, but talked instead about honor and justice, freedom and independence -- words that don't get around much anymore.
He was a fierce opponent of high interest rates but also believed that government should do as much as it could to expand employment opportunities. He remembered the Depression, when he "had witnessed how mass joblessness had come close to breaking up our society."
He came up with the idea that led to the creation of the Peace Corps, saying, "Young Americans in their late teens and early 20's need a sense of purpose -- the excitement and stimulus of taking part in great events."
Not all of his ideas were good ones, but they were all grounded in a fundamental integrity, a spirit of honest and intelligent inquiry.
Henry Reuss was a good guy, an honorable public official whose career gives the lie to the crackpots who have contempt for all things liberal.
It's too bad that at the end of his life he was "saddened" by what he described as "our retreat from the golden age." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); COLD WAR (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (74%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (69%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (68%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (64%); ETHNICITY (54%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (54%) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MARSHALL PLAN (56%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%) CONGRESS (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: DAVE OBEY (58%); JOHN F KENNEDY (54%) HERBERT, BOB; REUSS, HENRY S 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) WISCONSIN, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



643 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Bad Times? Not in a Thriving Florida Town 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla., Jan. 18 

 BODY:
If there is one place in the country that is escaping the current recession, it may be this city of almost 100,000 people about 100 miles up the Atlantic coast from Miami.
 Bulldozers seem to be everywhere, and builders continue to sell houses before they have completed them. A new wing of St. Lucie Medical Center opened last month. The city's first four-year college opened this week. 
 Wal-Mart will soon start building a supercenter across the street from a 100,000-square-foot store that has become too small. One of the area's biggest employers plans to add 300 workers by April to the 1,000 it already has. 
In the last year, the Port St. Lucie metropolitan area has had the fastest growing economy in Florida, and Florida has had the fastest growing economy in the United States. The state may not be booming the way this city is, but it is holding up better than almost anywhere else, data indicate and economists say.
"Florida is the strongest significant economy in the country, hands down," said Mark Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, a research firm in West Chester, Pa., that follows regional trends.
The state's relative strength goes a long way toward describing the current recession. The economy here has comparatively little manufacturing, the sector hit hardest in this downturn, and many of the items Florida does make, like boats and orange juice, are selling better than the clothing, lumber, steel and semiconductors from other regions.
At the same time, Florida depends to an unusual degree on perhaps the only two large sectors of the American economy that have been growing in recent months: health care and home construction. Low interest rates have kept house prices affordable for many people and have allowed the influx of new Florida residents to continue. Meanwhile, the state's population, the oldest in the nation, is spending more on medical care as it ages and as expensive new treatments become available.
Florida has not escaped the recession. Tourism of all kinds, including visits to Disney World and cruises sailing from Miami, fell sharply after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, and the unemployment rate is rising because job growth has fallen below population growth. With tax revenues dropping, Gov. Jeb Bush and the State Legislature cut $1 billion, mostly in education spending, from the state budget last month.
But the state still stands out. In the last year, as the nation's economy lost more than a million jobs, Florida gained 138,000 jobs, a 1.9 percent increase that is higher than in any other state, according to the Labor Department in Washington. In the Port St. Lucie metropolitan area, which includes Fort Pierce to the north, jobs have increased 4 percent.
"We're doing better than O.K.," said John H. Auld, a commercial real estate agent and the leader of a group of executives who try to attract companies to the area. This month, Mr. Auld will be talking to local developers, builders and real estate agents about the area's economy. The title of his presentation will be "What Recession?"
Port St. Lucie's roots date only to the late 1950's, when developers tried to draw Northerners here by taking out magazine advertisements that offered house lots for $10 down and $10 a month. 
But the city remained a sleepy northern outpost of South Florida, with most lots empty, through much of the 1980's. Only when many people decided that real estate in West Palm Beach had become too expensive did they come here, 50 miles farther north on Interstate 95, residents say. Since 1990, Port St. Lucie's population has grown to about 95,000, from 55,000, as people moved here from other states and from more expensive communities to the south.
"There's a huge difference in the price of houses," said Andrea Heady, 32, an assistant manager at a local bank who moved here with her husband a few years ago from Odessa, Tex. Last year, they moved into a gated community, and their three-bedroom, 2,500-square-foot house with red roof tiles and a screened porch cost less than $200,000.
"I can guarantee you there's no way I could get a house like this in West Palm," Ms. Heady said.
In fact, the city's relative lack of wealth has been a major reason for its growth. In recent years, the area's low wages and high unemployment rate -- partly a result of its large number of seasonal agriculture jobs, like grapefruit picking -- have attracted companies looking for new workers in a tight labor market. QVC, the television shopping channel, opened a call center here in early 1999, and three other call centers soon followed.
One of them, Convergys, has turned a failed department store in an old mall into a bustling floor of cubicles, headsets and computer screens where 1,000 employees now work in shifts between 6 a.m. and midnight, answering and making calls for AT&T and other large companies. The center will start operating 24 hours a day next month and hire 300 more people, managers say.
The new jobs, with starting pay between $7 and $9 an hour, are unlikely to erase the 25 percent gap between average incomes here and those in the rest of the state, but they have helped raise wages at the bottom of the salary scale in the last few years, local officials say. Between 1998 and 2000, the average wage in St. Lucie County increased 11 percent, or $1.12, to $11.78, an hour.
The real boom here continues to be in construction. New two-story Walgreens and Eckerd drugstores continue to go up at major intersections, and local developers say houses, with an average price of $150,000, are selling before they are finished.
"There's no such thing as a spec home," Paul J. Hegener, the president of Core Communities, said.
The combined value of the building permits issued in the county last year was 35 percent higher than those issued in 2000. The value of permits in the first two weeks of January has already exceeded the value of permits in the entire month last year, the county reports.
Overly optimistic building in the early 1990's caused Florida to suffer greatly in the last recession. If house prices begin falling in other parts of the country this year, making it hard for people to sell their houses and move to Florida, the state could be in for a rough 2002, economists say.
But most analysts say that banks and developers have remained fairly conservative in recent years.
"We have not seen the same overbuilding that hurt Florida in 1990 and 1991," Dave Denslow, an economist at the University of Florida in Gainesville, said. 
Barring a new downturn, Port St. Lucie's biggest problem will be handling traffic, Mayor Bob Minsky said. Already, the city has upset some residents by planning to evict people from 167 houses so it can widen a road in the next few years.
Ms. Heady, the bank manager, said even she and her husband notice how the city has changed since they moved here. "To us, sometimes it seems like traffic," she said. "But then we go to Miami, and we remember what real traffic is like."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Road construction is one sign of the growth in Port St. Lucie, Fla., and handling increased traffic is the city's biggest problem, its mayor says. (Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times)(pg. A11) Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: At Work in Florida"Florida had the largest percentage increase in jobs in 2001. Florida +1.9% (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A11) Map of the United States showing the change in percentage of new jobs from Dec. 2000 to Dec. 2001. (pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); CITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HOME PRICES (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); CRUISES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORISM (60%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; ORANGES; BOATS AND BOATING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (93%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) FLORIDA; PORT ST LUCIE (FLA)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



644 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Tight Budgets Force States to Reconsider Crime and Penalties 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

 BODY:
After three decades of building more prisons and passing tougher sentencing laws, many states are being forced by budget deficits to close some prisons, lay off guards and consider shortening sentences.
 In the last month, Ohio, Michigan and Illinois have each moved to close a prison, laying off guards in the process, prison officials say. 
 Washington State is considering a proposal by Gov. Gary Locke to shorten sentences for nonviolent crimes and drug offenses and to make it easier for inmates to win early release, saving money by shrinking the prison population. Colorado and Illinois are delaying building prisons, and Illinois is cutting education for 25,000 inmates. 
California, which led the nation's prison building boom, will close five small, privately operated minimum security prisons when their contracts expire this year.
Budget pressures are also adding momentum to a push to put a proposal on the California ballot in November that would reduce the number of criminals subject to the state's three-strikes sentencing law.
"I don't know of a correctional system in the country that isn't facing some of this," said Chase Riveland, a former director of Washington State prisons, now a consultant.
Steven Ickes, an assistant director of the Oregon Department of Corrections, said, "My sense is that budget problems are making people ask fundamental questions about whether we can afford to keep on doing what we've been doing," locking up ever more criminals for longer periods.
"We are going to have to make some tough choices about prisons versus schools, and about getting a better investment return on how we run our prisons so we don't have so many prisoners reoffending and being sent back."
Since the early 1970's, the number of state prisoners has increased 500 percent, growing each year in the 1990's even as crime fell. In that time, prisons were the fastest-growing item in state budgets -- often the only growing item. More than two million inmates were in state and federal prisons and local jails, which cost more than $30 billion a year to run, Allen J. Beck, of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, said.
In those years, said Franklin Zimring, director of the Earl Warren Legal Institute at the University of California, public pressure to get tough on crime made prison budgets virtually untouchable. But with crime having dropped or leveled off in the last nine years, this political pressure has abated, and with the economy in a decline, many states are having to cut spending to balance their budgets.
"This means that prisons must now compete by everybody else's rules for scarce budget resources," Professor Zimring said.
But whether fiscal restraints will lead to a decline in the number of people in prison is less clear, Mr. Beck said. In the second half of 2000, he said, the number of inmates fell for the first time since 1972.
"My best guess," Mr. Beck said, "is that the economic restraints are going to be offset by the rigidities of the sentencing laws of the 1990's, which required longer sentences.
"What we may have is stability, with the prison population continuing to grow, but slowly, in keeping with the population of the United States."
The biggest change in response to the tight budgets has come in the three states that have moved to close prisons: Ohio, Michigan and Illinois.
Reginald Wilkinson, the director of the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction, said he had been ordered to cut his budget by 1.5 percent, or $19 million. At first, Mr. Wilkinson said, he feared he would have to close two prisons but found he could achieve the savings by closing one, the old Orient Correctional Institution, a maximum security prison in Columbus with 1,700 inmates. They are being transferred to 10 other prisons in Ohio. Some guards will also be transferred, but about 200 employees will be laid off, Mr. Wilkinson said. He is offering other guards incentives for early retirement. Guards account for about 80 percent of the cost of prisons.
In Michigan, where the prison department had to save $50 million, it closed a medium security prison in Jackson, 70 miles west of Detroit, along with a halfway house and a work camp. The prison agency also laid off 97 guards who worked in Jackson and cut 161 positions for sergeants, unit managers and assistant deputy wardens at other prisons, said Matt Davis, a spokesman.
To reduce costs further, Michigan is moving 250 to 300 prisoners who were temporarily housed in county jails back into prisons so more state guards do not have to be laid off, Mr. Davis said. But Wayne Kangas, the sheriff of Clinton County, where some of the state prisoners were housed, said the state's action would cost his county from $500,000 to $600,000 in lost revenues.
"This will be a major problem for us," Sheriff Kangas said. "It's a real shock."
Illinois is closing the Joliet Correctional Center, an old prison that once held George Nelson, known as Baby Face, and is saving $5.4 million by eliminating classes for inmates beyond courses to pass a high school equivalency test, said Sergio Molina, a prisons spokesman. Illinois is also looking to save money with a new food program for inmates, Mr. Molina said.
In Washington, Governor Locke is asking the legislature to reduce sentences for nonviolent crimes and drug offenses and to release such prisoners faster for good behavior. Don Arlow, the budget and strategic planning chief for the Washington Department of Corrections, said these measures would reduce the number of inmates by 122 in a year.
Governor Locke has also proposed to exempt inmates judged least likely to commit new crimes from supervision after they are released.
California will not renew licenses for five small private prisons for minimum-security inmates later this year, said Stephen Green, a spokesman for the California Youth and Adult Correctional Agency. The state can do this because the number of inmates fell to 156,000, from 162,000, in 1999, Mr. Green said, and his agency expects a further drop of 3.1 percent this year. Inmates in the five private prisons will be transferred to regular state prisons.
California has 6,700 inmates serving sentences of 25 years to life under the state's three-strikes law. Besides complaints that the law is overly punitive, there has long been criticism that it is an expensive way to combat crime, keeping people locked up long after their prime years for committing crime. As long as the California economy was doing well, this criticism was blunted.
But Mr. Green said the budget deficit was making some legislators change their views, and he said he expected a proposal to require that the third strike be for a violent offense to be on the ballot this fall.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ohio is closing the Orient Correctional Institution in Columbus to save money, clearing bunks as the 1,700 inmates are transferred to other prisons. (Matt Sullivan for The New York Times)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (95%); BUDGETS (92%); SENTENCING (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CRIME RATES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); RECIDIVISM RATES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (78%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); REFERENDUMS (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); STATISTICS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) PRISONS AND PRISONERS; STATES (US); FINANCES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); GUARDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (56%) BUTTERFIELD, FOX 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) MICHIGAN; CALIFORNIA; ILLINOIS; OHIO

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



645 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Thomaston Journal; 
Mill Town Mourns Its Mill, Then Reinvents Itself

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: THOMASTON, Ga., Jan. 16 

 BODY:
The vast mills ran ceaselessly for a hundred years here, rolling out stiff denim and industrial cord and sheets so voluptuous they covered the beds of the Plaza Hotel. Once thousands of Georgians walked through the mill doors every day to weave fabric, and the small town that grew up and prospered around them could not imagine a day when the vibration of the looms would stop and the cotton would disappear.
 And then one day last June, Thomaston Mills closed. Some employees had seen it coming in the worried whispers of managers; they knew the American textile industry was losing the struggle against low-cost imports; they knew the payroll had shrunk to 1,400 at the end from 6,000 in the 1940's. But the bankruptcy notice still came as a slap to most workers and to the unprepared town of 9,400 that had essentially been created by a single company. 
 Bill Ott, the company's final president, had doubts about whether this central Georgia town could survive without Thomaston Mills, which had paid for so many of its houses and streets, reservoirs and schools. "What I feared was that as we liquidated the company, the town itself would begin to liquidate," Mr. Ott said.
But in the last six months, Thomaston has somehow found a way to right itself. The town will never again be able to rely on a single paternalistic employer like Thomaston Mills, but several smaller textile companies are braving the recession and buying pieces of the silent mill buildings. By next year, they expect to employ almost half of those who were laid off.
Meanwhile, Thomaston and many of its citizens are trying to move beyond cotton and textiles, the staple that industrialized the South a century ago. Several businesses, including a Wal-Mart superstore, are responding to a state recruiting effort and moving into the area. Many former mill workers are pursuing high school equivalency degrees, while others are studying new trades.
"People said we were doomed, but this town is hustling," said Sylvia Wilson, a career counselor working with the state labor department. "This was a disaster for us, but it may also be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for us to diversify our base."
Hundreds of the workers have signed up for free courses at the Flint River Technical College, a state vocational school. The classes are paid for through the state lottery program, and those who enroll are eligible for a year of extra unemployment benefits under the North American Free Trade Agreement. (That clause was invoked for mill workers because low-cost textiles imported from Mexico had undercut the company's products.)
"I'm not going back into textiles," said Christy Watkins, 21, who lost her job in data processing at the mill and is studying graphic arts at the college. "I always wanted to leave, but the money was too good. Now I'm going to finish my education and move out of Georgia and do something completely different." 
Those who want to return may get the chance. For months, the state's economic development department has put reviving Thomaston at the top of its list. The effort paid off when three companies agreed to move into parts of the mill, planning to employ about 600 people in the next two years making sheets, towels and clothing.
The Zaslow family of Wyncote, Pa., which also owns the industrial supply company ATD American, bought the Thomaston Mills name and has already hired about 45 former mill workers to produce sheets and pillowcases. The company was attracted by the mill's sturdy buildings, high-tech equipment and motivated workers.
"The work ethic we found was unbelievable," said Eric Wischnia, co-president of the new Thomaston Manufacturing Company, which plans to employ up to 300 people in the next two years. "They've seen what happens when a company fails, and they're going to make sure it doesn't happen."
The companies say that by focusing more efficiently on a narrow specialty, they can succeed where the older mill could not. The town is learning to do the same.
"They say that some pine trees only release their seeds in the heat of a forest fire," said Mr. Ott, who has only a few more weeks to dismantle his company. "I think here in Thomaston, you're going to see the seedlings replace the sequoias."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Christy Watkins, who lost her job at Thomaston, is studying graphic arts at Flint River Technical College. "I'm not going back into textiles," said Ms. Watkins, whose grandmother also lost her job at Thomaston.; Bill Ott, president of Thomaston Mills, stands in his closed plant in Thomaston, Ga. Initially, he feared the town would not survive the closing. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) Map of Georgia highlighting Thomaston: Georgia is asking businesses to consider moving to Thomaston.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); FABRIC MILLS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (87%); COTTON FABRICS (78%); BROADWOVEN FABRIC MILLS (78%); FABRICS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); DISMISSALS (75%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (75%); RECESSION (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); IMPORT PRICES (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (74%); TRENDS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); LOTTERIES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TEXTILES 

ORGANIZATION: THOMASTON MILLS (CO) 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) THOMASTON (GA)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



646 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Congressional Budget Battle Centers on Older Americans

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
The political war now escalating over the budget will revolve, in part, around the interests and apprehensions of one extraordinarily powerful group, strategists in both parties agree: older Americans.
 Both the political calendar and the issue agenda are pushing the parties toward a rough debate about who has the elderly's best interests at heart. This year's critical Congressional elections will play out amid the increasing strains of an aging society, a sluggish economy, a resurgence in health care costs and a disappearing budget surplus. 
 In the often arcane struggle over budget priorities, older Americans have a direct stake in many of the decisions made by the administration and Congress this year -- on prescription drug benefits, the fate of the 10-year tax cut and, looking down the road, the pace and nature of any Social Security overhaul. Medicare spending is a particularly delicate issue, with the Bush administration seeking to squeeze billions from Medicare by limiting payments to providers even as a federal advisory panel is urging the government to raise them. Page A10. 
Moreover, some strategists say that concern over retirement security, a buzzword in the political world these days, may grow as a result of the collapse of Enron, the Houston energy trading company. Many Enron workers lost much of their retirement savings because they were so heavily invested in company stock, underscoring the vulnerability many Americans felt about their 401(k)'s in a no-longer-roaring stock market.
"I think even before Enron, people were looking at their statements and saying, 'Uh-oh, things are not as rosy as they used to be,' " said Linda DiVall, a Republican pollster.
This debate will be fueled by the sheer political power of the elderly. Older Americans vote at much higher rates than younger age groups in midterm elections, and analysts say their allegiance is increasingly up for grabs. After years of reliably tilting Democratic in Congressional races, the 60-and-older vote was carried by the Republicans in 1994, 1996 and 1998, then swung back to the Democrats in 2000.
Mark Gersh, an expert on demographics for the Democrats, says the party is dependent on the retiree vote to win back the House "more than ever," given the nature of some of the newer, more competitive Congressional districts. Representative Thomas M. Davis III, chairman of the Republicans' Congressional campaign committee, says there is "no question that seniors have been trending our way." 
The Democrats "will try to bring up Social Security, scare them and get that vote back," Mr. Davis said. 
Democrats say the reappearance of the deficit, and the use of the Social Security surplus for other budget purposes, has created another potential line of attack. In a new poll for Emily's List, the Democratic women's fund-raising group, nearly 8 in 10 older women said such a use of the Social Security surplus was a "very serious problem."
Terry McAuliffe, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, said Friday that Democrats needed to beat back the argument, advanced by the administration, that the deficit was caused by spending to fight terrorism. Referring to President Bush, Mr. McAuliffe declared, "He was hitting the Social Security trust fund in the summer."
The basic structure of Social Security will also factor in the campaign debate. While no legislation is expected to move this year on restructuring Social Security to create private accounts, Democrats assert that Mr. Bush has clearly committed himself to the idea and sooner or later will push it. "We need to seize on every opportunity to brand them as the ones who want to mess with Social Security," Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster, said Friday.
Representative Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat who focuses on issues of interest to the elderly, argues that his party simply needs to present the facts. "What's always been high on the Republican agenda is even higher now that they have a Republican president -- privatizing Social Security and privatizing Medicare," Mr. Brown said. He argued that the administration's drive to get more private health plans involved in Medicare, along with its Social Security ideas, reflected the Republican Party's fundamental aversion to big government programs, even when those programs work.
Republicans are dismissive of these charges, arguing that the Democrats' case is so patently political -- and has been repeated so many times, dating back to the classic 1982 bumper sticker "Save Social Security, Vote Democratic" -- that it has lost its power. "They'll use Social Security, but that doesn't scare me in my boots right now," Mr. Davis said. Still, Congressional Republicans were distinctly uneasy about even the possibility of Mr. Bush's pushing his Social Security proposals in a midterm election year.
Glen Bolger, a Republican pollster for Congressional candidates, is one of many strategists in his party who argue that it is important for Mr. Bush to express his sensitivity and commitment to elderly issues -- particularly prescription drugs -- in his State of the Union address next week. Ms. DiVall said: "What the president has going for him is that people trust him. They know he's not going to play fast and loose with their retirement security."
The elderly vote often accounts for a fourth of the vote nationwide in off-year elections -- more in states like Pennsylvania and Florida -- and Ms. Lake said it could be particularly high this year. Ms. DiVall said older women "will vote at an 80 percent clip" because "they follow government and they're concerned about retirement security," while 18- to 24-year-olds might be voting at a 15 percent turnout rate.
The retiree vote has also gained political power because it is behaving more like a swing vote. In recent years, with the passing of the generation that came of age during the New Deal and formed lasting Democratic identities, Republicans have made important inroads. That was particularly true in 1998, when the Democrats lost the 60-and-over vote by 10 percentage points, in large part as a result of the values issues.
In the end, advocates and analysts say, what makes many retirees so dangerous to underestimate is that they read, go to town meetings, watch C-Span and generally pay attention. Even in a budget debate with significant eye-glazing potential, some of them they will be watching, strategists say.
Mr. Bolger said he begins every campaign strategy discussion the same way, "What is our message and how are we going to communicate with seniors?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); AGING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); MEDICARE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); AGING TRENDS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); TRENDS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (74%); US 401K PLANS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (74%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); ENERGY MARKETS (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (65%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AGED; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: TOM DAVIS (58%) TONER, ROBIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



647 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: REPAIR BILL; 
Rebuilding the Land Looks More Costly Than Was Thought

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: SALANG, Afghanistan, Jan. 19 

 BODY:
The first cars and trucks began passing through the Salang Tunnel this week, venturing into a twilight world of twisted metal, piles of rocks, exposed wire and icicles that hang like stalactites at the mouth of a cave.
 This is perhaps the most strategic 1.7 miles in Afghanistan, bisecting the Hindu Kush mountains at an altitude of 11,034 feet to connect the northern and southern parts of the country. 
 It had been closed since 1997, after repeated bombing by the Northern Alliance left it in ruins. Now the Salang Tunnel is open, barely, and its deplorable condition attests to the hugeness of the rebuilding job that faces Afghanistan. 
On Monday, at a conference in Tokyo, Afghanistan plans to make its first formal request for billions of dollars in aid to repair its public works and rehabilitate its institutions.
The United States, Japan, Saudi Arabia and the European Union countries have indicated that they will contribute, though the precise amounts are a well-kept secret.
A senior Bush administration official said the best estimate of the cost of reconstruction -- by the United Nations and the World Bank -- was on the order of $1.7 billion in the first year, $10 billion over five years and $15 billion over the next decade.
As big as those numbers are, the amount may not be enough.
Officials here say Afghanistan's interim government will ask for nearly $2 billion to cover the first year of rebuilding. To fix everything that has been broken will require much more: up to $30 billion, Afghan officials say.
"There are very few parts of Afghanistan that don't need to be rebuilt," said Omar Samad, a spokesman for the government. "Almost everything in the country is a shambles."
At the Public Works Ministry, where workmen are replacing blown-out windows, officials said 80 percent of the bridges and highways had been damaged or destroyed during the Taliban era and the earlier years of fighting among rival mujahedeen forces.
In Kabul nearly a third of the public buildings and 40 percent of the houses have been leveled. Western Kabul, once the most affluent quarter of the city, was shelled relentlessly by mujahedeen in 1993.
Kabul's main water system was looted by the fighters, who sold off the pipes and fixtures in Pakistan. Although the United Nations and other aid groups helped to rebuild it, there is not enough power to run the pumps and generators. As a result only 30 percent of the homes in Kabul, a city of one million, have drinkable water.
The shortage of electricity causes regular blackouts throughout the city. It also means that most people heat their homes with wood-burning stoves, if at all. With few working telephones, even senior government officials have trouble reaching each other.
The situation outside Kabul is even bleaker. In the Shamali Plain, the front line between the Taliban and Northern Alliance, entire villages have been razed, driving more than 100,000 people into refugee camps in eastern Afghanistan and in Pakistan.
During the recent American bombing campaign, northern cities like Mazar-i-Sharif, Kunduz and Taliqan suffered extensive bombing, as did Jalalabad in the east and Kandahar in the south.
In every Afghan conflict the commanders used much of their firepower to cut off routes between the cities.
The Salang Tunnel is a case in point. Built with the help of the Soviet Union in 1964, it has been a crucial commercial route for trucks and buses heading from Kabul to the northern provinces.
After 1996 it became a flash point in the war between the Taliban and the Northern Alliance. In May 1997 the Northern Alliance blew up the north end of the tunnel to cut off Taliban troops who were fleeing an offensive.
Today, the debris has been cleared, but the hole remains, giving travelers a jagged view of sky before they emerge from the tunnel.
Officials at the Public Works Ministry estimate that it will cost $6 million to plug the hole and repair the other damage.
Russia is providing some help. It has sent 30 engineers and other specialists to inspect the tunnel. But the Afghan workers who spent the last two months dragging out iron girders and hunks of concrete have not been paid. "The government has not given us enough money to do our jobs," said Fazel Rahman, a project supervisor.
That is because the government is, for all intents and purposes, bankrupt. The Taliban looted the central bank before they fled Kabul, leaving the country with less than $100,000 in reserves. Tax collection in this land of independent warlords is a pipe dream.
Not one of the government's 235,000 employees, from senior civil servants to janitors, has been paid for six months. The government says it needs $100 million to pay the back salaries, plus money for paychecks and operating expenses for the next six months.
"You cannot have a functioning government if you don't pay the salaries of your workers," Mr. Samad, the government spokesman, said. "We need to have credibility in the eyes of the Afghan people."
Afghanistan's education system has also been damaged by years of neglect and the Taliban's fundamentalist policies. Girls were barred from school, as were female teachers. Traditional high schools were converted into religious schools, known as madrasas.
The deputy education minister, Moyen Marastial, calls it the "Talibanization" of the education system.
"We keep hearing we are starting from zero," he said. "But we are starting from minus zero. We have to clean up a lot of things before we can even think about rebuilding."
Afghanistan plans to reopen its schools on March 22. But about half of the schoolhouses are destroyed, while another quarter are damaged. Almost none have desks, chairs, textbooks or supplies.
About 500,000 girls will enroll, putting an enormous strain on the depleted ranks of teachers. Mr. Marastial said the government had registered about 10,000 new teachers, mostly women who had been forced to give up their jobs by the Taliban.
Still, he figures the country is only halfway toward its goal of hiring 50,000 to 60,000 teachers, even though is no more able to pay teachers than government workers.
At the Aishadurani School, a stately but dilapidated girls' school in Kabul, teachers lined up by the hundreds the other day for free jugs of cooking oil. The oil was donated by a businessman as a way to help the teachers until they were paid.
Under the Taliban the school was converted to offices for the Kabul school district. Now it was functioning as relief center. A school official tried to keep order as the teachers, most of them women in burkas, elbowed each other aside for the oil.
In the middle of the melee, the official, Jamshed Faizi, still managed to sound optimistic about the coming school year.
"Afghans are a very resilient people," he said. "They put up with a lot of difficulties and survive."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The devastation of Afghanistan is evident in the Salang Tunnel, top, where light enters through a break created by bombs, and in the heavily damaged buildings of the Kartai Mamorain of Kabul. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (66%); POWER FAILURES (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (54%) FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (82%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT; UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (71%) AFGHANISTAN; TOKYO (JAPAN); JAPAN; SAUDI ARABIA

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



648 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Amazon Ships to a Sorting Machine's Beat

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

DATELINE: FERNLEY, Nev., Jan. 18 

 BODY:
Ever since it built five vast warehouses in 1999, Amazon.com has boasted of the wonders of the machinery inside them -- 10 miles of conveyer belts and myriad other gadgets. 
 What Amazon was not so vocal about was how many people it took to operate those machines, especially during the holiday rush. In 2000, for example, Amazon had to hire 7,200 temporary workers to supplement the 4,400 people working in its warehouses in the United States. 
 Now, Amazon.com, once the champion the strategy of "get big fast," has learned how to become small. On Dec. 11, its busiest day last year, Amazon's warehouses employed only 4,000 temps and 3,700 full-time employees. With one-third fewer people than the year before, the warehouses processed what analysts estimate were 10 to 15 percent more items. 
Amazon, which plans to release its fourth-quarter results on Tuesday morning, needs every dollar it can save. A year ago, the company -- which has lost $2.8 billion since its founding in 1995 -- promised investors it would turn an operating profit in the fourth quarter of 2001 (at least by its own "pro forma" calculation). 
That goal was made harder because Amazon's sales grew at only half the rate it predicted at the beginning of the year, dragged down by the recession, the aftermath of Sept. 11 and some of the company's own missteps. 
If, as analysts expect, Amazon nonetheless hits its fourth-quarter profit target, a key reason will be the savings from its yearlong campaign to reorganize the people and the machines in its warehouses. 
"They are focused on productivity in a very structured way, and it appears they have made good progress," said Anthony Noto, an analyst for Goldman, Sachs. Mr. Noto estimates that order-fulfillment costs absorbed 11 percent of Amazon's sales in the fourth quarter, down from 13.5 percent a year earlier. Still, he said, those costs need to fall below 9 percent for the company to thrive. 
Walking amid a forest of bookshelves and climbing metal bridges over the rivers of conveyer belts in the warehouse here 40 miles east of Reno, Jeff Wilke, Amazon's senior vice president for operations, pointed to dozens of improvements big and small. 
One big goal had been to reduce errors in keeping track of the several million items continually being placed onto and pulled off of hundreds of thousands of bins on metal shelves. In theory, Amazon's computers know exactly where each item is at any moment. But in 2000, the computers were wrong more than 10 percent of the time, causing delays as workers searched for missing items and restocked spares. 
"We had a whole secret plant, not our main focus, putting stuff back," Mr. Wilke said. 
To reduce errors, Amazon wrote new software to take better advantage of the gizmo that each warehouse worker was already carrying -- a shoehorn-size device that combines a bar code scanner, a display screen and a two-way data transmitter. 
The new software beams far more explicit instructions to workers about where they should go and what they should do. And it checks their work by forcing them to scan each item every time they put it on or take it off a shelf. Errors have fallen to below 5 percent, from 10 percent, Mr. Wilke said. 
This new system also helps with another of Mr. Wilke's main goals -- improving the productivity of seasonal temporary workers -- by giving them more direction. It also monitors their performance, so those who cannot get up to speed in a week or so are given help -- then fired, if necessary. Amazon also instituted a formal training program for temps. As a result, the average productivity of each temporary worker has doubled. 
Many of Mr. Wilke's efforts reflect the highly quantitative bent expected of an M.I.T.-trained engineer who ran chemical plants for Allied Signal before joining Amazon in 1999. But when he talks about the biggest change here in Fernley, he uses the language of music, not manufacturing. 
"We needed to build cadence," Mr. Wilke said, "to operate to the drumbeat of the constraint." 
The drumbeating constraint is the $25 million Crisplant sorting machine at the center of Amazon's automated approach. Working with batches of 500 to 2,000 orders, the employees with the hand-held terminals feed items onto a network of conveyor belts into the sorting machine. The machine reads the bar code on each item and routes it into one of 2,100 chutes, each chute representing an order for a single customer. When all the items in an order are in the chute, a light flashes, and a worker rushes to put them in a box. They are then sent on other conveyers to machines that print packing slips, seal the boxes and send them off to shippers' trucks. 
Adopting such an expensive and complex machine was controversial for Amazon. 
Mr. Wilke acknowledges that he was skeptical of the Crisplant machines when he joined Amazon, inheriting the warehouse designs of his predecessor, Jimmy Wright, a former Wal-Mart executive. In fact, Mr. Wilke arrived in time to delete the machines from the designs for Amazon's warehouses in Europe. 
But in the last two years, Mr. Wilke says, he has come to believe that the sorting machines were a good choice. He has also concluded, though, that because they are so expensive and so central to the business, all other parts of the warehouse need to operate with the goal of avoiding backlogs and delays that would prevent the Crisplant machine from running at peak efficiency. 
So Mr. Wilke created a new job -- flowmeister -- making one person the orchestra conductor of the warehouse, to keep each section of the operation in rhythm with the sorting machine. In Fernley this day, the flowmeister was Andy Warren, a former logistics consultant who took a career detour as a lawyer. His podium was a metal table topped with seven computer screens that monitor all the key processes of the warehouse. 
As Mr. Warren conducted, a graph showed that the people taking items from the chutes and putting them in boxes were not keeping tempo with the ones putting items into the sorting machine. So he had a worker move from the "induction" area to work the chutes, heading off a backlog.
Mr. Wilke's "cadence" talk was hardly music to the ears of the people who worked in the warehouses, because he was essentially insisting they could handle far more volume with no new equipment. 
"I felt like Scotty in 'Star Trek' saying, 'I can't push her any further, captain,' " said Greg Bennett, the manager of the Fernley warehouse. Yet by keeping the Crisplant operating at full speed for two 10-hour shifts a day, the warehouse was able to pack more than 200,000 items on peak days in December, 30 percent more than the year before. 
But Mr. Wilke says the pressure is not off. His calculations show that many more incremental improvements could eventually double the productivity of the warehouses. 
"The sum of all the little mistakes," he said, "is big."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day yesterday about Amazon.com's shipping methods misstated the job of Carrie Peters, shown at a computer keyboard in a warehouse. She is a public relations official, not what the company calls a flowmeister, an employee who directs warehouse operations.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy Hedlund at the Crisplant sorting machine in Amazon.com's warehouse in Fernley, Nev. The $25 million machine reads bar codes on items, routes them into one of 2,100 chutes and signals when an order is ready to be packed in a box.; Machines seal, label and sort orders, above. Carrie Peters is a "flowmeister," directing the warehouse operations. (Photographs by Marilyn Newton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); SALES FIGURES (88%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); ORDER FULFILLMENT (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PRODUCTIVITY; FINANCES; AUTOMATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC 

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (94%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (94%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



649 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE ANGER; 
Enron Fired Workers for Complaining Online

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
The Enron Corporation fired at least two employees in the last two months for posting information or negative opinions about it on Internet message boards.
 One of the fired employees, Clayton Vernon, had asked Kenneth L. Lay, Enron's chairman, during an earlier internal online discussion whether Enron had used aggressive accounting to overstate its profits. It is unclear whether Mr. Vernon's question to Mr. Lay, which came in September, two months before he was dismissed, played any role in his firing. But a coarsely worded message critical of Mr. Lay that Mr. Vernon posted in November under a screen alias was traced back to him in less than a day. 
 The second fired employee, according to Enron, was the person who revealed in early December on the Internet that Enron had paid $55 million in retention bonuses to top managers and executives just before it filed for bankruptcy protection and laid off 4,000 workers on Dec. 2. The bonuses were sharply criticized by Enron employees, many of whom had their retirement savings wiped out by Enron's collapse. Enron declined to identify the second fired employee.
Enron also declined to comment on any other details of the two firings, and it would not say whether it had dismissed any other employees because of Internet postings. Mr. Vernon confirmed that he had been fired for postings that the company viewed as offensive.
"We're not going to discuss internal security actions," said Mark Palmer, a spokesman for Enron. "But we will say that we will protect very vigorously the corporation's property."
Both firings involved material posted in an online forum about Enron on Yahoo, whose message boards are among the most heavily used on the Internet.
It was not clear how Enron identified the employees behind the postings. People who post messages on Yahoo often believe that they cannot be traced if they do not use their real names. But many companies have the technical means to track the online activities of employees who use company computers and servers. 
In addition, Yahoo's privacy policy allows it to disclose personal information about people who post messages that it deems abusive or "invasive of another's privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically or otherwise objectionable," or that reveals confidential corporate data.
Even so, a Yahoo spokeswoman said Yahoo had not given Enron any information about anyone who posted a message. Despite the disclaimer in its privacy policy, she said, Yahoo generally divulges personal information about users only in response to a court order.
In any case, Enron apparently had little difficulty finding Mr. Vernon, who posted most of his messages from the company's Houston headquarters, where he worked designing computer-based models to estimate the value of Enron's energy trades.
A native of Midland, Tex., who describes himself as a political progressive, Mr. Vernon said that when he joined Enron in December 1999, he hoped that the company would be diverse and a meritocracy.
But in the course of two years working at Enron, he said, he "realized it was just another Houston, Texas, corrupt thing -- that we grow in this town -- where the rich white Republicans think they can write any law they want to at any time."
His frustration grew, he said, when Mr. Lay took part in an online chat within the company on Sept. 26 and brushed off Mr. Vernon's question about the way Enron had accounted for deals it had made with supposedly independent partnerships. Enron began to collapse after it became known in November that it had used the partnerships to overstate earnings by at least $600 million.
By mid-November, with Enron's stock plunging, Mr. Vernon had begun to post dozens of messages a day on the Yahoo discussion board under the screen name "utlonghornsrule," referring to the University of Texas, where he received a master's degree in economics.
His messages warned investors away from Enron's stock, and many sharply criticized Enron and Mr. Lay. "We were just sitting there with nothing to do," Mr. Vernon said of the period when he posted the messages. "We were just sitting there watching our stocks go down."
The final straw for him came Nov. 19, he said, when Enron canceled its Christmas party. At 5:16 p.m. that day, in a (not always grammatical) message sprinkled with vulgarities, Mr. Vernon wrote that Mr. Lay had "just cancelled the Enron christmas party so he wouldn't have to show up for his own party with armed bodyguards."
He went on, "Lied and said employees were ambivalent. Trust me, nobody believes a word" that Mr. Lay says, the posting said, using a vulgar epithet. "People have enjoyed the company spending a few dollars on them and giving them a chance to laugh and dance a bit. Esp since most of us adore our coworkers.
"Ken Lay is the sorriest sack of garbage I have ever been associated with, a truly evil and satanic figure."
Other people quickly posted responses defending Mr. Lay, including one who wrote, "1) You are an embarrassment to UT -- so shut up. 2) You don't know what you are talking about -- You don't run with the big dogs." Mr. Vernon said the style of that note led him to think that it was the work of a senior Enron employee.
It did not take long for Enron to find out the identity of "utlonghornsrule." The day after his vituperative posting, Mr. Vernon said, he was called into a meeting with his manager and a top human resources officer. "My boss said, 'What were you doing?' and I said, 'I was frustrated,' " Mr. Vernon said. "They escorted me out immediately." He said he had been paid his salary, but no severance pay.
Mr. Vernon said he understood why he was fired. "I was using their equipment," he said, "I was in their building, and it was a flagrant violation of company policy to do what I did. I'm not going to litigate it. I don't think it was unfair."
He does not see himself as a whistle-blower, he said, and he is embarrassed by the language his anger led him to use -- but he is still angry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (93%); DISMISSALS (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (88%); BONUS PAY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); ETHICS (65%); MODELING & SIMULATION (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (61%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (61%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (61%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; BONUSES; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (96%); YAHOO! INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (96%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (86%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (86%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (86%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (86%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: LAY, KENNETH L; VERNON, CLAYTON; BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



650 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE ANALYST; 
ManWho Doubted Enron Enjoys New Recognition

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
Of all the Enron mementoes, John Olson might have the best one. Mr. Olson, an analyst who has been a longtime skeptic of the energy company's once-stratospheric stock price, has a handwritten note that the Enron chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, sent last June to Mr. Olson's boss, Donald Sanders.
 "Don -- John Olson has been wrong about Enron for over 10 years and is still wrong," Mr. Lay wrote. "But he is consistant sic . Ken." 
 Consistently right, actually. Mr. Olson, who follows the energy industry for a small investment firm here, has finally been proved correct where just about every other Wall Street analyst who followed Enron was wrong. But he can take only a grim kind of satisfaction in his prescience. "I would like to be able to gloat," he said, "but this thing is just too damaging, too unhappy, to do anything like that."
Mr. Olson, who calls himself an old-fashioned analyst who does not own individual stocks himself, is now a Houston celebrity. A recent talk he gave at the Petroleum Club on the fall of Enron drew a standing-room-only crowd.
"He's a very sharp analyst," said George P. Mitchell, founder of the Mitchell Energy & Development Corporation in Houston. "When you have 16 out of 17 analysts" promoting the stock, he said, "that's pretty tough opposition. But he stuck to his guns, and he did it early."
Mr. Olson's moment in the sun comes at the end of a lonely time. Wall Street, he said, was dazzled by Enron's high-technology gloss, and did not scrutinize the business. That, he said, has been the sad trend of the analyst community during the years of the dot-com bubble, when companies with no profits and few prospects of earning them could get glowing reviews from analysts like Henry Blodgett of Merrill Lynch and Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley.
"Henry Blodgett might be a nice young man, but . . ." he said, trailing off into silence.
"On Wall Street," he said, "the worst thing you can be is a schnuckel," which he said was the Yiddish word for dupe. "We were schnuckled on Enron," he said. "It was gloriously overvalued."
His rough command of Yiddish -- the likely word he was referring to was "schnook" -- came from his adolescence in Larchmont, N.Y., where he said the fathers of Jewish girls he dated used choice Yiddish terms to insult him. "Yiddish is a marvelously slanderous language," he said.
A sardonic man, six feet tall, thin and weathered, he looks like a Giacometti statue in pinstripes. He describes himself as "a basset hound with a 25-watt personality."
After receiving an M.B.A. from the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania, he worked as an analyst covering the oil, gas and electric power industries for firms including Merrill Lynch, Drexel Burhnam Lambert and First Boston. He is currently director of research for a boutique firm here, the Sanders Morris Harris Group.
His small corner office, on the 31st floor of one of Houston's many downtown office towers, has a splendid view of Enron Field, the city's new baseball stadium. The wood-framed note from Mr. Lay hangs near a wire sculpture of an oil derrick and a silver yo-yo.
The note was scrawled in the margins of a story from U.S. News & World Report in which Mr. Olson was quoted as saying, "They're not very forthcoming about how they make their money." He went on to say: "I don't know an analyst worth his salt who can seriously analyze Enron." A messenger delivered the note from Mr. Lay the next day by hand.
When Mr. Sanders, his boss, showed him the note, Mr. Olson recalls shrugging. "You know that I'm old and I'm worthless," he said, "but at least I can spell 'consistent'."
In Houston, opposing Enron was a little like being against the city itself, said Stephen L. Klineberg, a professor of sociology at Rice University. "You could make a case that it was especially hard in Houston to be a skeptic on Enron," he said, because "Ken Lay and Enron were very much at the center of Houston's sense of positioning itself for success in the post-oil age" of trading and high technology.
The cost of such pessimism could be high, Mr. Olson said. "They are a very combative culture over there," he said. "They always played to win."
Those who did not join the chorus of praise for Enron, he said, could be punished. "There was a strong mandate, unwritten, unspoken, at Enron that if you the investment banking house ever wanted to do business with Enron, your analyst had to have a strong buy on the stock," he said. "I was continually at war with investment bankers."
His consistency, however, has not been complete. He did recommend Enron stock when its troubles first drove the price down to $27 a share last September. "I thought it was a real bargain at the time," he said. The slide, of course, continued as Enron headed toward bankruptcy.
Surprisingly, he does not believe that Enron is finished. He said that he believes Enron can, and should, recover because of its trading prowess. "They were the best of the breed," he said. "Trading did not bring them down. It was a rogue financing operation." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); TRENDS (71%); LIBEL & SLANDER (68%); ADOLESCENTS (67%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (66%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); MITCHELL ENERGY & DEVELOPMENT CORP (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: OLSON, JOHN; SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



651 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy's Compassion 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Senator Edward M. Kennedy has displayed admirable courage in calling for America's wealthiest citizens to make a sacrifice during this time of national crisis (news article, Jan. 17). 
 While the Bush administration subjected him to a hail of criticism for suggesting a "tax increase," what the senator has proposed is merely a postponement of cuts that have yet to take effect. 
 The plan to shift some $300 billion from a windfall for the wealthy to more urgent national priorities like health care and education makes sense. Claims that Mr. Kennedy's proposal would exacerbate the recession are irrational. Asking those with comfortable $130,000 annual incomes to pay for programs that protect our most vulnerable is the only humane response to an economic downturn.

MICHAEL BELLINGER
Silver Spring, Md., Jan. 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); TAX INCREASES (87%); TAX LAW (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%) TAXATION 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (91%) BELLINGER, MICHAEL; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



652 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: MEDIA; 
After Talk, Miramax to Refocuson Movies

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
Harvey Weinstein, the shrewd and bellicose leader of the Miramax Films empire, had kept a rather low profile at the Sundance Film Festival the last two years. But last week, he was back in full force at the festival, deftly acquiring several of the gathering's most eagerly sought movies while promoting Miramax's prospects in the current Oscar race.
 He had lost focus for a while, Mr. Weinstein said, first when a debilitating illness briefly sidelined him two years ago and then when he placed his energy and competitive instincts into backing Vice President Al Gore and other liberal candidates in the 2000 election. 
 "For a few years there, it just got away from me," Mr. Weinstein said over breakfast at a luxury lodge high above Park City, Utah, late last week. "The success of the company was intoxicating. You start to think, 'Yeah, I can do anything. I can make big movies. I can hang out with movie stars. I can get involved in politics.' "But now I'm trying to take myself and my company back to its roots, which is smaller, independent films." 
What Mr. Weinstein did not say was that in just over 24 hours, he and his partner, Hearst Magazines, would announce that their publishing co-venture, Talk Magazine, would be suspended, despite the efforts of Tina Brown, its editor in chief, to replicate her successes at Vanity Fair and The New Yorker.
He declined, after the announcement on Friday, to talk about the collapse of Talk. But if there is an upside to Talk's demise, it is that Mr. Weinstein will be better able to shed some responsibilities and re-embrace what had made Miramax a movie powerhouse in the first place and transformed Mr. Weinstein into one of the most controversial executives in the movie industry.
Still, the collapse of Talk is a highly visible defeat for Mr. Weinstein and his vision of synergy between the magazine business and the movie business. Over the weekend, Miramax officials tried to paint the magazine's collapse as an unfortunate but inevitable result of the economic downturn, saying it indicated nothing about Miramax's support for Ms. Brown's efforts or the company's commitment to publishing.
The magazine lost an estimated $40 million to $50 million since its first issue in September 1999, although it began to increase its advertising revenue despite an industrywide recession.
The magazine's collapse left hard feelings between Miramax and Hearst, whose decision to quit the partnership precipitated the magazine's demise. Some Miramax executives expressed bitterness over the way Hearst extricated itself.
"A lot of people at Miramax feel that they were sabotaged," said one Hollywood executive. "There was this endless string of leaked stories about how the magazine was on its last legs. Under those circumstances, Miramax couldn't possibly find anyone to come in with them and keep the magazine going."
There was certainly skepticism among some at Miramax about Hearst's intentions. "They didn't just want out, they wanted the magazine not to be there anymore," one executive said.
Still, many outside Miramax were skeptical that Talk could have continued in any event in the advertising downturn and the difficult market for general-interest magazines.
Hearst officials said the suspicions about their intentions were baseless. "We can't imagine why someone would say this while Hearst was investing dollar for dollar alongside Miramax," said Debra Shriver, a Hearst spokeswoman. "It was in everyone's best interest that the magazine succeed."
In fact, there had been grumbling inside Hearst Magazines for at least a year over the alliance. Some Hearst editors resented the losses that were piling up while they were forced to keep resources tight. The Hearst corporate culture strenuously emphasizes the bottom line, and the spending on Talk seemed extravagant and wasteful to some.
News of the announcement of the magazine's closing was kept close, to forestall the sort of leaks that had led to articles in the past. "We had a pretty good idea of who the leakers were, so we made sure that only a few people knew it was coming," a Miramax official said.
Miramax executives also stressed that the book publishing portion of the Talk venture -- which has already produced successes like the children's book "Artemis Fowl," best sellers like "Icebound" and "Stolen Lives" and coming titles like "Leadership" by Rudolph W. Giuliani -- will continue, with Ms. Brown at the helm. And Miramax has not quit magazines entirely, holding a minority interest in the New York-based Gotham magazine.
"Talk-Miramax was a success on the book side and, unfortunately, not so much of a success on the magazine side," said Matthew Hiltzik, executive vice president for communications at Miramax. "But it was a positive effort for the company."
In the last few years, Mr. Weinstein's public identity had become closely linked to Talk magazine. Its collapse will change that now, and so will Mr. Weinstein's intention to refocus his priorities.
In the late 90's, He and his brother, Bob Weinstein, moved in several new directions. Bob Weinstein started up Dimension Films, a banner aimed at creating more commercially oriented fare, which resulted in the hugely successful "Scream" series and such recent hits as "Spy Kids" and "The Others." Mr. Weinstein, meanwhile, went further beyond film distribution and more heavily into film production, taking on sizable projects like "The English Patient" and the coming "Gangs of New York" and working with some of the biggest stars in Hollywood.
It was well known in independent film circles that Mr. Weinstein was upset that Miramax had passed up a chance to land what turned out to be the biggest hit to come out of Sundance in 1999, "You Can Count on Me." In 2000, still embroiled in his political campaign efforts, he was also said to be critical of some of the company's acquisitions that year, although it did land "In the Bedroom," one of the year's biggest independent hits and a top Oscar contender.
So it is in this climate that Mr. Weinstein returned with such force this year to Sundance -- kicking off the festival by outwitting eight competitors to land the romantic comedy "Tadpole" for $5 million, the most paid for a Sundance film this year. And it is only one indication of what he says is his return to the company's roots, paying at least as much attention to smaller, independent and foreign-language films as to big, start-studded efforts.
There are plenty of other indications. Miramax has nearly 40 films on its release slate this year; even the biggest studios in Hollywood rarely release more than 30. And although all studios send out videotapes and DVD's of their Oscar candidates, most studios limit themselves to a handful of releases. Miramax's box of Oscar screeners contained 13 titles, more movies than some studios released last year.
"In its earliest years, the company fought to bring as many independent and foreign films as possible to a wider audience," Mr. Hiltzik said. "Now, while the company has enjoyed great success in both production and distribution, Bob and Harvey maintain their commitment to the same kinds of films they embraced at the beginning. They haven't forgotten their roots."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Harvey Weinstein in Park City, Utah, where he is again a force at the Sundance Film Festival, acquiring its most eagerly sought movies. (Fred Hayes for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PUBLISHING (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (50%) MOTION PICTURES; MAGAZINES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: MIRAMAX FILMS; TALK (MAGAZINE) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%)

PERSON: HARVEY WEINSTEIN (92%); AL GORE (54%) LYMAN, RICK; WEINSTEIN, HARVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



653 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: Sundance: Less Buzz, More Deals 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: PARK CITY, Utah, Jan. 18 

 BODY:
The Sundance Film Festival in the snowy, condo-choked valleys of the Wasatch Range had seen so much of its excitement fade away in recent years that many people approached this 20th gathering as a kind of visit with an invalid. 
 But then, defying expectations, the dark and innovative films that made up much of this year's roster began to create a stir, and suddenly the odor of infirmity drifted away. 
 And perhaps more important as the festival drew to a close on Saturday was the surprising fact that the acquisitions market -- in which Hollywood distributors make indie-filmmaker dreams come true by picking up films for millions of dollars -- bounced back. Movies were selling left and right last week for more money than anyone would have predicted before the festival began on Jan. 10.
"Tadpole," a comedy about a young Manhattanite's infatuation with an older woman, played by Sigourney Weaver, sold to Miramax Films for $5 million. The movie had been shot on digital video in 18 days for a budget of $150,000 to $400,000, depending on who you believe. 
"The Good Girl," a comedy starring Jennifer Anniston, sold to Fox Searchlight for $4 million. "The Dancer Upstairs," the directorial debut of John Malkovich, went for more than $3 million. And nearly a dozen more movies were also sold. None hit the $10 million level that some films did in the mid-90's, when Sundance frenzy was at its peak, but they fared much better than movies have here in recent years. 
"I did have the feeling at last year's festival that American independent cinema was running out of steam," said Paul Webster, chief executive of Film Four, a British film production and distribution company. "And now, this year, I don't feel that way at all. You really feel that the festival has really regrouped."
So while Sundance, the premier annual event in the world of independent filmmaking and largely responsible for resuscitating and sustaining independent film over the last two decades, may have lost its tabloid buzz and celebrity glitter, some feel that after two decades it has returned to basics and regained its soul.
"I'm not spending my days being dogged by agents and managers like I used to be at Sundance," said Michael Barker, co-president of Sony Pictures Classics. "I'm seeing movies. I'm talking about movies. And I'm enjoying it more."
In recent years Robert Redford, the festival's founder and guiding spirit, was virtually absent, but this year he was everywhere. "I've seen nine movies already," he boasted at midweek. Picking at a plate of cheese and olives in a corner booth at a downtown restaurant late one afternoon, he shrugged at the notion that Sundance had been in decline. "I can't tell you how many times I've heard that the festival is not what it used to be," he said. "It gets to the point where you don't even hear it anymore."
Nevertheless, the crowds were smaller this year. Parking spaces could actually be found -- sometimes -- on Main Street. The sidewalks were so uncluttered that strolling was possible. Geoffrey Gilmore, the festival's co-director, said that sales of ticket packages were down about 5 percent from last year. But, he said, that was only part of the picture. 
"What's really missing are the big entourages," he said. "Studios that used to buy five packages would also bring along 20 or more people. This year they're still buying the packages, but they're leaving the other people at home. The same with the big talent agencies."
Largely, of course, the dot-com bust and downturn in the economy are to blame. Long gone are the go-go years of the mid-90's when top players showed up simply to make the scene on Main Street, decked out in furs and designer skiwear. In those days when Sundance really insinuated itself into the national consciousness with movies like "Pulp Fiction" and "Shine" distribution executives routinely paid millions for the hot movies, and moguls flew private jets into town to attend glitzy parties at estates high in the hills.
The parties continue but smaller and not so plentiful, and gone are the scrums in the icy streets to get past grim-faced gatekeepers. Fading movie stars trying to resuscitate a career no longer pose on Main Street. And conspicuously absent are the clusters of gawkers who gathered outside restaurants and cloistered parties hoping for a glimpse of their favorite sit-com queen.
"It's really for the best," said Harvey Weinstein, co-chairman of Miramax Films, the independent studio that with its cocky swagger and deep pockets helped transform Sundance into a glamour fest. "Now you don't have those people coming who just want to go to parties or be part of the scene. People are coming to see movies or to work for their movies. It was like we were all on parade before, all under a microscope."
Many might raise a skeptical eyebrow at the notion that Mr. Weinstein, of all people, objects to being in the spotlight. After all, he was involved in one of the more infamous incidents of the go-go years, a shouting and shoving match in a Main Street restaurant over the purchase of a film by a rival studio. 
Although it is a far cry from the years in which distributors locked producers into rooms until a deal was struck, this year there have been more bidding battles over films than in a long time.
Several of those involved in the bidding for "Tadpole," for instance, describe a tense Saturday night session in the Park City condo of John Sloss, a veteran Sundance deal maker and one of the principals in the company that made the film. Nine studios, virtually every significant player in the indie world, had made offers for the film, and that night it came down to Miramax, whose representatives were ensconced on one floor of the condo, and Fine Line, whose people were upstairs watching a tape of the film.
"Sloss had one group in one room and another group in another room, and the Miramax people had to keep running outside to call up Harvey," said a person who was present that night. "It was like the old days."
In the end the tide was swung when Mr. Weinstein got on the phone with James Dolan, president of Cablevision Systems, the parent company of the film's producers. After that Miramax's $5 million bid was accepted despite matching bids from Fine Line and Fox Searchlight." 
Similar bidding wars, if not quite so lucrative, erupted over several other films.
"We could have had nine companies there bidding that night, if we'd had enough rooms to put them in," Mr. Sloss said. "My feeling is that the story of the festival this year is that the quality of the films as compared to last year is not as high, but the acquisitions market is much, much better."
Even as Mr. Sloss spoke, Cassian Elwes of the William Morris Agency, another prominent deal maker, sauntered over to his restaurant table to congratulate him on the "Tadpole" deal. Mr. Elwes had just sealed deals for "The Good Girl" and "The Dancer Upstairs" and was anticipating many more before the festival closed.
"Can you believe it?" Mr. Elwes said. "I came here expecting it would be a really dead festival, and instead there's been so much activity. It's just amazing."
The question many people were asking themselves was, Why was this happening?
Some attributed it to the slowdown in movie production that began last year at the end of May. Movie studios, fearful of threatened strikes by actors and writers, had rushed films into production early in the year. Then when the strikes didn't happen the studios simply went dormant. And so now both the major studios and their independent divisions find themselves short of films.
"People are looking a year or so down the road and seeing that their slates have dried up," said Tom Ortenberg, president of Lions Gate Films. "The end result is that we're seeing bidding wars again." 
There was also a feeling that many distributors had left the Toronto International Film Festival without making acquisitions because the festival was interrupted by the events of Sept. 11, so they came to Sundance even hungrier than usual.
Another factor may be that people are looking around and seeing that the biggest independent hits of 2001 -- "Memento," "In the Bedroom," "The Deep End" and "Sexy Beast" -- were movies that appeared at last year's Sundance. "Memento," which was the year's biggest independent success, had been ignored by acquisitions executives here.
And it has also not gone unnoticed that Miramax, despite spending millions of dollars to produce such Oscar-friendly films as "The Shipping News," finds itself going into the current Oscar race with "In the Bedroom" as its top candidate, a film that the company had picked up at Sundance for just $1.5 million.
"They all could have had 'Memento' for a bargain, and everyone passed," Mr. Gilmore said. "So no one wants to make that mistake again. I feel that this is a festival and a year that has made me feel good for the independent film industry."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jennifer Aniston, right, in "The Good Girl." Aaron Stanford and Sigourney Weaver, far right, in "Tadpole." Javier Bardem and Marie-Anne Verganza, below, in "The Dancer Upstairs." (Lolafilms); (Teresa Dillon/InDigEnt); (Reuters)(pg. E1); Robert Redford made his presence felt more this year than last. (Reuters)(pg. E5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); CELEBRITIES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (63%) MOTION PICTURES; SUNDANCE FILM FESTIVAL (PARK CITY, UTAH) 

PERSON: JENNIFER ANISTON (73%) LYMAN, RICK; REDFORD, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



654 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisan Medicare Panel To Call for More Spending 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
A federal advisory commission is recommending that the government increase Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals, home care agencies and some nursing homes, even as President Bush prepares to send Congress a budget that would squeeze billions of dollars from Medicare by limiting payments to health care providers.
 The influential panel, led by a Republican, said that cutting payments, or even continuing them at current levels, could jeopardize access to care for the elderly and disabled. 
 The 17-member commission, created by Congress in 1997, did not say how to pay for its proposals, nor did it estimate their cost. But outside experts said the proposals could add $15 billion or more to Medicare's annual tab, which was $241 billion last year. 
Trent D. Duffy, a spokesman for the White House Office of Management and Budget, said he had no comment on the recommendations.
In recent years, Congress has often followed the advice of the panel, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission. The new recommendations put pressure on Congress to spend more than Mr. Bush proposes in his budget, which is to be released on Feb. 4, and they give fresh ammunition to health care lobbyists clamoring for higher payments.
Glenn M. Hackbarth, the chairman of the bipartisan panel, said it had weighed the proposals one by one without pursuing a political agenda.
"We tried to achieve a proper balance of fiscal responsibility and reasonable expenditures that will guarantee access to high quality care," said Mr. Hackbarth, who was a federal health official under President Ronald Reagan. "We worry about taxpayers as well as Medicare beneficiaries."
The commission will send its report to Congress on March 1 but approved all the major recommendations last week. 
Medicare payments to doctors were cut this year by an average of 5.4 percent, with larger cuts for surgeons, cardiologists and emergency doctors. The panel is recommending a new formula that would increase payments to doctors by 2.5 percent next year. The existing law could produce another year of cuts in 2003.
Dr. Timothy T. Flaherty, chairman of the American Medical Association, said he was delighted with the panel's recommendations. If Congress does not approve them soon, Dr. Flaherty said, "physicians may be forced to lay off staff and may be unable to accept new Medicare patients."
Representative Jim McCrery, Republican of Louisiana, a health care expert on the Ways and Means Committee, said: "Congress pays a lot of attention to the commission and its recommendations. But it's going to be difficult, in the current budgetary environment, to come up with increases in reimbursement."
Representative Pete Stark, Democrat of California, agreed with that assessment. But he said he strongly supported many of the recommendations, including an increase in payments to doctors and hospitals.
Mr. Bush plans to propose an overhaul of Medicare, as he did last year, to increase the role of private health plans and add drug benefits. He is also expected to propose an extension of provisions of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 that trimmed payments to doctors, hospitals and other health care providers.
White House officials gave several reasons for wanting to slow the growth of Medicare. The cost of the program rose more than 10 percent last year, and that pace cannot be sustained as baby boomers join the rolls, administration officials said. The White House also wants to hold down Medicare spending to improve the overall fiscal picture, to reduce the budget deficit and to ensure that money will be available for drug benefits.
Mr. Duffy, the spokesman for the White House budget office, said Mr. Bush would ask Congress to set aside $190 billion over a decade for "Medicare reform" and drug subsidies. That is the same amount Mr. Bush requested last August.
Medicare generally does not cover drugs outside the hospital. AARP and other groups representing the elderly plan to make Medicare a major issue in this year's elections. Mr. Bush and most members of Congress have said they want to add drug coverage to Medicare, but they have not found a way to pay for it.
The commission said the formula for paying doctors under Medicare was flawed because it linked increases in physician payment to the growth of the economy, rather than to doctors' costs, which are growing faster than the economy.
In addition, the panel is recommending that Congress increase Medicare payments to hospitals, especially those in rural and smaller urban areas like Des Moines, Spokane, Wash., and Mobile, Ala. Hospitals in large urban areas like New York, Chicago and Los Angeles would receive smaller increases.
Under the commission's proposal, the basic Medicare payment for inpatient services would rise 2.35 percent for hospitals in large urban areas and 2.9 percent for all other hospitals.
Medicare spends $80 billion a year under the system used to pay most hospitals for inpatient care. So a 1 percent increase costs $800 million. Medicare spent $40 billion for doctors' services last year.
Carmela S. Coyle, senior vice president of the American Hospital Association, said the recommendations would be "very helpful."
The commission said Congress should increase payments to home health agencies by 3.2 percent next year, to provide a full allowance for inflation. It also said lawmakers should eliminate a 15 percent cut scheduled to take effect on Oct. 1.
Robert D. Reischauer, the vice chairman of the commission, who was director of the Congressional Budget Office from 1989 to 1995, said Congress should not just postpone the 15 percent cut, as it has done twice in recent years. "There is no evidence we are overpaying by 15 percent," he said.
Sharon Bee, a member of the commission staff, said home care agencies had had a "wild ride" and needed stable Medicare payments. Medicare spending on home health care shot up to $17 billion in 1997, from $2 billion in 1987, then fell 45 percent.
The commission said Medicare payments appeared to be adequate for most of the 13,000 free-standing nursing homes. But it said 1,800 hospital-based nursing homes should receive a 10 percent increase in their basic rates, plus a 2.8 percent update for inflation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); AGING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); LAYOFFS (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; MEDICARE; NURSING HOMES; AGED; HANDICAPPED 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIM MCCRERY (57%); PETE STARK (57%) PEAR, ROBERT; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



655 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1380 words

HEADLINE: Syria's New Cabinet Is Overshadowed by Old Realities 

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria 

 BODY:
Hisham Zaim, the new minister of industry, was outlining his ideas on resuscitating Syria's decrepit public sector when he noticed a visitor eyeing the numerous pictures of Syria's young president and his father, the former president, decorating the room. 
 In the minister's office, for example, there are at least six. One entire wall can barely contain a billboard-sized head shot of President Bashar al-Assad, while the bookshelves hold framed portraits including one of his father, the late Hafez al-Assad, as a dashing air force pilot. 
 "You see many pictures around that were inherited from my predecessor," explained the minister, noting that with less than a month on the job he had not had time to worry about decor. "That is not my style; one picture is enough." 
Those possible decor changes closely mirror the prevailing official mood now that President Assad has appointed his first cabinet, 18 months after inheriting the job. The new government promises to retire the violent political repression, rigid economic centralization and rampant corruption that marked the previous 30 years, but no one anticipates any wholesale dismantling of the older Assad's legacy. 
This is particularly true in the Arab-Israeli conflict, with Syria resolute in its contention that peace depends on Israel's returning the annexed Golan Heights. Lacking any credible military threat as a result of its creaky Soviet hardware and with no means of tempering Israeli measures against the Palestinians, Syria instead maintains its hard-line credentials by acting as host to radical Palestinian groups and ramping up its tough talk. 
Syria used its new seat on the United Nations Security Council, for example, to attack Israel's recent destruction of a swath of Palestinian homes in the Gaza Strip. The speech set off outrage by comparing the site of the destruction to the attack on the World Trade Center, where thousands died.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell dismissed the remark as "hysterical" on Sunday. John D. Negroponte, the American ambassador to the United Nations, is to hold talks with President Assad here on Monday. 
The United Nations speech was just one sign that the old habits of Hafez al-Assad die hard. Domestically, free-speech forums that flourished a year ago have largely been shuttered, with 10 of the most vocal government critics arrested. Martial law enacted in 1963 continues, and on the economic front, the country has not attracted any significant foreign investment despite a host of new laws. 
Unquestionably, there are signs of change. Almost one-third of the new ministers are not members of the governing Baath Party, with a heavy concentration of technocrats holding the economic portfolios. There are new laws to encourage private banks, a stock exchange, independent newspapers and real estate development. Cellphones have become widespread in the last six months, while a new school curriculum for fall mandates English-language instruction starting in fourth grade. 
Ministers and other senior officials emphasize that economic reform is their main priority, followed by streamlining the administration and improving social services. Political change comes a distant fourth. It will all take a while, they say, the pace slowed by the ongoing conflict with Israel and the former president's utter control over all decision-making for three decades. 
"A great part of our resources are still needed for defensive purposes," said Adnan Omran, the Syrian minister of information, noting that with the new government that was appointed in December, "you have a team that makes it easier to implement the plans of the new government. You have to give them time."
Critics contend that the conflict with Israel and fears of upheaval are just excuses. The more contentious argue that senior military officers and Baath party officials have kept their hands in the public cash register for so long that they are loath to implement change. 
Riad Seif, a member of Parliament, was jailed in September after reconvening his forum -- one of the evening salons where democracy was promoted -- without permission. But his supporters suspect that the real reason might be his study arguing that the mobile phone contract awarded to a presidential cousin would cost the Syrian public billions of dollars in lost revenue. 
"This is a message from our secret police to the people that we are here, don't try to agitate, don't talk," said Haitham al-Maleh, one of the lawyers defending Mr. Seif and the other dissidents. 
Discussion about the president's inheriting his job has largely quieted -- although there were titters around Damascus this month when a young woman ending her violin recital reportedly said live on television that she appreciated the patronage of Syria's "royal family."
Critics of the democracy forums said they were trying to move too fast and made far too sweeping demands for freedom in a country that has not known any. Openly describing the late President Assad as a dictator and discussing the role of religious sects alarmed a leadership dominated by an Alawite minority in a country with a Sunni Muslim majority and significants groups of Kurds, Christians and others.
The former president used secular nationalism and long jail sentences for dissidents to quiet long-fractious minorities. 
"Bashar's legitimacy comes from the system," said a Lebanese journalist who watches Syria closely. "He can't saw off the branch he is standing on. When they curse his father's system, it's the same as cursing him."
Bashar al-Assad, a 36-year-old ophthalmologist, has fulfilled some of his promises. Human rights lawyers note that the population of political prisoners reached an estimated 50,000 during his father's tenure. With the release of another 140 late last year, the number of political prisoners is now less than 1,000, most of them members of the Muslim Brotherhood. 
On the economic front, businessmen and economists point out that chunks of necessary reform are still lacking. Although Lebanon's private banks are eager to serve Syria's 17 million people, they still need regulations like a free currency exchange rate and labor laws that allow them to dismiss employees. 
New cabinet ministers insist further new laws are coming. 
"If you are building a new highway that is 100 kilometers, you still need the last 100 meters," said Saadalla Agha al-Kalaa, the new minister of tourism. "You can't change things in a single day."
But private businessmen say the problem extends beyond a few laws. Nightmarish Soviet-style bureaucratic controls remain, like needing a special government permit to buy a delivery van.
Given that the average public sector salary is $100 month -- ministers get $400 -- the demand for bribes is chronic. Syria's products are considered outmoded -- the government television factory uses technology from 20 years ago -- and its infrastructure is antique. All Damascus suffers from a lack of water. 
The government, which makes everything from steel to shoes, evidently fears selling off its factories and creating more unemployment in a country where the official rate is 10 percent and the actual rate estimated at 20. 
Mr. Za'im, the industry minister, says Syria plans to keep its state-owned companies but the management will be expected to run them like private firms and make a profit.
"There will be no more endless subsidies from the state," he said. 
Many doubt that the model is viable. What is keeping the Syrian economy afloat at the moment is its oil industry, especially an influx of about 200,000 barrels of oil a day from Iraq despite United Nations sanctions, said local economists and Western diplomats. Syria denies breaking the sanctions. 
Syria gets the oil in a barter arrangement in return for textiles and television sets and other goods that it would be hard-pressed to sell elsewhere, according to the analysts. The imports give it that much more of its own oil to sell on world markets. 
That economic benefit has thus far allowed President Assad to maintain a delicate balancing act of slowly trying to alter a sclerotic system without major change. 
"It's like a spider's web," said a senior Lebanese journalist. "It's both dangerous and fragile. You cut one string and the whole thing collapses."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about Syria's new cabinet misstated the given name of the industry minister. He is Issam Zaim, not Hisham.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bashar al-Assad, who became president of Syria 18 months ago, with a photograph of his father, the late President Hafez al-Assad. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); AIR FORCES (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); LEGISLATION (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); TRENDS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); CORRUPTION (67%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (62%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (62%); CURRICULA (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (93%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (50%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; ASSAD, BASHAR AL- (PRES); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) SYRIA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (79%) SYRIA

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



656 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1331 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Lava Divides Congo Area Already Torn by Civil War
After being ravaged by civil war, Goma, Congo, has been divided in two by the lava flow from the worst volcanic eruption in Africa in 25 years. A5

Clinton Visits Israel
On a visit to Israel, former President Bill Clinton continued to urge Israelis and Palestinians to work for peace. He blamed Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, for the failure of the 2000 peace proposal. A3

A New Cabinet for Syria
Syria's president, Bashar al-Assad, has appointed his first cabinet members 18 months after inheriting the job. Economic reforms seem to be their main priority, despite the growing Arab-Israeli conflict. A3

Tibetan Scholar Is Freed
A Tibetan music scholar, Njawang Coephel, was freed by China on medical parole one month before President Bush's visit to Beijing. Mr. Coephel, who taught at Middelbury College in Vermont before returning to his homeland of Tibet, was being held on spying charges. A7

Mexico Fumbles Democracy
Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, vowed to share power with Congress, breaking a seven-decade tradition. But the legislators seem unwilling to accept their new responsibilities. To Mr. Fox's chagrin, there seems to be no clear signs of peace between the two branches of power. A6

NATION CHALLENGED A8-9

Aid Conference Focuses On Rebuilding Afghanistan
Representatives of more than 50 countries and international organizations met in Tokyo to pledge hundreds of millions of dollars toward initial reconstruction efforts. Addressing the opening session of the two-day conference, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the United States would make a first-year contribution of just under $300 million for agriculture, health, security, counter-narcotics and refugee assistance among other areas. A1

Strategic Tunnel Reopens
Cars and trucks are again passing through the Salang Tunnel, perhaps the most strategic 1.7 miles in Afghanistan. The tunnel bisects the Hindu Kush mountains at an altitude of 11,034 feet to connect the northern and southern parts of the country. It had been closed since 1997, after bombing by the Northern Alliance left it in ruins. A9

Helicopter Crash Kills Marines
Two marines were killed and five injured when their CH-53E helicopter crashed in a mountainous area south of Bagram air base in northern Afghanistan. The helicopter crashed shortly after taking off on a supply mission, military officials said. The cause of the crash was under investigation, but several military officials said it appeared to have been the result of a mechanical failure. A9

NATIONAL A10-13

Florida Offers a Bright Spot In America's Dull Economy
If there is one place in the country that is escaping the current recession, it may be Port St. Lucie, a city about 100 miles up the Atlantic coast from Miami. In the last year, the Port St. Lucie area has had the fastest growing economy in Florida, and Florida has had the fastest growing economy in the United States. A1

Old Twist on a New Budget
The political war now escalating over the budget will revolve, in part, around the interests and apprehensions of one extraordinarily powerful group, strategists in both parties agree: the elderly. Both the political calendar and the issue agenda are pushing the parties toward a rough debate about who has the elderly's best interests at heart. A1

Panel Urges Medicare Increase
A federal advisory commission is recommending that the government increase Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals, home care agencies and some nursing homes, even as President Bush prepares to send Congress a budget that would squeeze billions of dollars from Medicare by limiting payments to health care providers. A10

Hard Times Hit Prisons
After three decades of building prisons and passing tougher sentencing laws, many states are being pushed by budget deficits to close some prisons, lay off guards and consider ways to cut inmates' sentences. A1

Runoff for Dallas Mayor
Laura Miller, a former journalist whose confrontational style has become the biggest single issue in a race for the Dallas mayor's office, will face a local civic leader, Tom Dunning, in a Feb. 16 runoff. A10

OBITUARIES B7

Charles Ditmas
The honorary keeper of clocks at Harvard University believed that each antique clock had a personality as distinct as the one he so assiduously cultivated for himself. He was 91, although for years he had claimed to be 110, an odd turn for a man obsessed with the measure of time. B7

Alfred Byrd Graf
The botanist, collector and photographer who compiled some of the world's most elaborate and expensive plant books was 100. B7

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

A Construction Miracle At Cleanup of Ground Zero
Four months into the job, those heading the cleanup and those removing the rubble at ground zero are trumpeting nothing short of a construction miracle, and with it, no small victory over cynicism about what labor can do in New York. The authorities had estimated that the cleanup would take a year and cost up to $2.5 billion. Now it turns out it will take no more than nine months and cost no more than $750 million. A1

With Luck, a Park Project Grows
After decades of neglect, East River Park -- once one of New York City's most elegant large parks, with a mile-long riverfront promenade -- has been having a run of good luck. What started five years ago as an effort by neighborhood churches to repair broken fixtures has ballooned into a full-scale renovation involving businesses, television producers and City Hall. B1

Neediest Cases B3

ARTS E1-12

Golden Globe Winners
"A Beautiful Mind," Ron Howard's emotional thriller about a brilliant but schizophrenic mathematician, won four Golden Globe Awards, including best dramatic motion picture. The film's other awards went to Russell Crowe, above, for lead dramatic performance, to Jennifer Connelly for supporting performance and to Akiva Goldsman for the script. "Moulin Rouge" was named best comedy or musical film. Sissy Spacek won best actress in a dramatic film for "In the Bedroom," playing a mother trying to overcome the violent death of her son. E3

Turnaround at Sundance
Dark and innovative movies breathed new life into the 20th Sundance Film Festival, and the acquisitions market -- in which Hollywood distributors make indie-filmmaker dreams come true -- bounced back. Movies sold for more money than anyone would have predicted. For instance, "Tadpole," a comedy about a young Manhattanite's infatuation with an older woman, sold for $5 million. It was shot on digital video in 18 days for $150,000 to $400,000, depending on who you believe. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Enron Stock Used as Collateral
Kenneth L. Lay, the chairman and chief executive of Enron, repaid millions of dollars in loans made to him by the company last year by turning over his own shares of Enron as the stock price fell, his lawyer said. He said Mr. Lay had put up stock as collateral for investments. A1

Enron fired at least two employees in the last two months for posting information or negative opinions about it on Internet message boards. C1

Online, Some Bets Are Off
A growing number of credit card companies and banks are refusing to process payments for Internet gambling. C1

Rumors Buffet Viacom
The media company and its stock continue to be dogged by rumors of tension between the strong-willed men who run Viacom. C1

Panel Urges Raise at United
A presidentially appointed board recommended a pay raise for mechanics at United Airlines, although it sympathized with the carrier's claim that it could not afford wage increases because its survival was at stake. The Presidential Emergency Board barred a strike for at least another 30 days. (Reuters)

Business Digest C1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-8

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: The war in Colombia; nuclear reactors as terrorist targets; indifference toward vaccinating the poor.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E9
TV Listings E12
Crossword E10
Weather B5
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (84%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REFUGEES (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (70%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PAROLE (68%); HELICOPTERS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); RECESSION (60%); PEACE PROCESS (57%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); VICENTE FOX QUESADA (71%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (71%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) XIZANG, CHINA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (74%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (71%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (71%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); TIBET (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); MEXICO (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); CHINA (87%); JAPAN (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



657 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: White House Letter; 
If the Math's a Bit Fuzzy, The Politics Are Clear

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
White House arithmetic is always a creative subject, and Democrats say that last week it reached impressive new levels of inventiveness. On Wednesday, as Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, called for delaying the administration's scheduled income tax cuts in 2004 and 2006 for the most prosperous families in America, President Bush and his minions could hardly restrain their glee.
 A delay in a tax cut is nothing less than a tax increase, they declared. But what else to expect, they asked, from the Democrats? 
 Mr. Bush was one of the first out of the gate in a midterm election year with the latest in administration math. In the Oval Office on Wednesday afternoon, a reporter had only to utter the words "Senator Kennedy called for" before the president jumped in. "Oh, let me comment," he said. "I appreciate that very much."
He then said: "Those who want to revoke the tax cut, basically raise taxes, are those who just don't share my view. I think raising taxes in the midst of a recession is wrong economic policy."
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, offered up additional calculations the same day. Asked at a briefing if it was fair and accurate to describe Mr. Kennedy's call for a delay in the tax cut as a tax increase, Mr. Fleischer responded: "Y-E-S, yes. When you tell the American people that we promise you, and it's the law of the land, that you are going to have more money in your next paycheck, and then the Democrats say 'We're going to take that money out of your paycheck' to the American people, that is nothing but a tax hike."
Time out. 
Didn't Jeb Bush, the governor of Florida and the president's brother, sign into law last month a delay in a scheduled state tax cut on intangibles like stocks to fill gaps in Florida's ailing budget? Therefore is that not, using the White House math, a tax increase?
"That's a state matter, and the president doesn't weigh in on state matters," Mr. Fleischer somberly replied. 
Vice President Dick Cheney, asked last month by Tim Russert on the NBC program "Meet the Press" whether the president would follow his brother's lead and roll back his tax cuts, came up with this: "I think those are different circumstances, Tim. I think if you think about it, you know, what a state does is much more fiscal management, whereas what we're talking about at the federal level is what really governs the overall shape and direction of our economy."
It was finally left to Marc Racicot, the new chairman of the Republican Party, to break loose from the White House logic. Asked yesterday by Mr. Russert on "Meet the Press" if Jeb Bush was, in fact, raising taxes, Mr. Racicot at first stalled, then distinguished himself on national television as the first member of the inner circle to toss the president's younger brother over the side.
"The nomenclature can be debated time and time again," Mr. Racicot genially responded. "But this is a scheduled tax-relief measure for millions and millions of American families and clearly if it's not going to go into place, then one perspective most certainly is that it's raising revenue."
Mr. Russert pressed in on his prey. So, he asked, is Governor Bush raising taxes?
"I think that argument can be made in all fairness, yes," Mr. Racicot conceded.
Democrats, not surprisingly, say that both Mr. Racicot and the White House are wrong, and that a delay in a tax cut is just that, a delay in a tax cut. More important, they say, is that Mr. Kennedy's proposal to roll back future cuts -- so the nation can afford better health and child care, he says -- would affect only the top 5 percent of American families.
Under the Kennedy proposal, families of four making less than $130,000 a year would still get all of the scheduled cuts under the $1.35 trillion, 10-year tax relief package that Mr. Bush signed into law last year. For example, a family of four making $50,000 a year will get a tax cut of about $800 in 2002 and $1,017 in 2006.
Under the Kennedy plan, the richest families would still get their tax cuts scheduled for 2002, but would not get as big a cut in 2004 and 2006.
According to an analysis prepared by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal group, families with annual incomes of $1 million are scheduled to receive a tax cut of $7,133 in 2002 under the new Bush administration law. Mr. Kennedy would keep that tax cut in place.
In 2006, under the Bush administration law, those million-dollar families are to receive a tax cut of $31,406, the budget center said. Mr. Kennedy, according its analysis, would hold the tax cut to $8,954.
So is that a tax increase?
"No one is getting their taxes raised," said Gene Sperling, who was President Bill Clinton's chief economic adviser. "The only debate is how large the tax cuts should be for the top 5 percent."
Robert D. Reischauer, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office who is now president of the Urban Institute, a research center, had another answer. "This isn't budgeting," he said. "It's politics." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); INCOME TAX (72%) TAXATION 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (59%); TIM RUSSERT (53%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



658 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: DONORS; 
U.S. MAKES PLEDGE FOR $300 MILLION IN AID TO AFGHANS

BYLINE:  By TODD S. PURDUM and HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
With occasional bombs still dropping on Afghanistan, the United States pledged today to provide nearly $300 million for initial reconstruction efforts as representatives of more than 50 countries and organizations gathered here to discuss the rebuilding of the ravaged country.
 Addressing the opening session, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the first-year contribution -- close to one-fifth of the $1.7 billion the United Nations has estimated will be needed in the first year -- will be used for programs including agricultural, health, security and counter-narcotics efforts as well as refugee assistance. 
 "President Bush has made it clear that the United States will not abandon the people of Afghanistan," Secretary Powell said, adding that it was up to the world to help Afghans "make a future worthy of their highest hopes." He added: "Let us build on the richness of Afghanistan's past. Let us build a new history that will protect and ennoble us all." 
But on the first day of the two-day conference, questions remained about how much money will be raised, how it will be administered and whether it will be enough to help a country devastated by two decades of war.
Afghanistan will need $10 billion in the next five years, over and above any relief already pledged, the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, told the delegates. He said the needs included basic services like sanitation, clean water and roads, and a fairer justice system and "an end to the culture of violence against women."
"Today in Afghanistan, a window of opportunity is opening," Mr. Annan said. "Through it we can see a country drawing back from the brink of devastation."
But, he warned, "What happens next is by no means predetermined, and success cannot be taken for granted. More than once in recent years, countries have sunk back into conflict just when peace seemed to be taking hold. We are here today to do our part in making sure that does not happen in Afghanistan."
The leader of the interim Afghan government, Hamid Karzai, brought a hush over the room when he departed from his list of his country's pressing needs to note that Afghanistan remained a world away from the brightly lit, westernized hotel ballroom in which he spoke.
"I stand before you today as a citizen of a country that has had nothing but disaster, war, brutality and deprivation against its people for so many years," Mr. Karzai said. "So when I read this paper, which does not contain much sentiment, please recognize" that "what you see here isn't what you see in Afghanistan."
Bush administration officials said that the $296 million that Secretary Powell announced today would come from a reallocation of funds already appropriated and so could be delivered quickly. About $111 million is left from $320 million in aid that was not needed for Afghan refugees.
The proportion of the American contribution is somewhat below the typical pattern of the United States' contributions -- usually about 25 percent. But administration officials have repeatedly emphasized that because Washington has borne the bulk of the cost of the war against the Taliban, it expects other nations to play a greater role in peacekeeping and rebuilding.
Other nations were expected to pledge comparable amounts. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan said his nation would pledge up to $250 million for the first year, and a like amount in the year and a half after that. Japan is a co-chair of the conference, along with the United States, Saudi Arabia and the European Union nations.
European Union officials said they expected to pledge about $500 million for the first year, but officials have suggested in the past that some of that could be in in-kind contributions. Saudi Arabia said it would pledge $220 million over three years.
American officials cautioned that sorting who gives how much would be complicated because of multiyear contributions. "This won't only be apples and oranges -- it will be clementines and pineapples," one senior administration official said.
Speakers emphasized that the effort would be long term.
"In order to eradicate terrorism, we must eliminate conditions that allow terrorism to take root," Mr. Koizumi said. "To do so, it is essential that a peaceful and stable Afghanistan be built. This cannot be done in one or two years."
The United Nations and World Bank put the estimated 10-year reconstruction costs at about $15 billion, though officials caution that the estimates are tentative. 
Afghanistan's needs are so staggering that some quibble with the word "reconstruction," saying that the task at hand is in fact an effort to build a modern state where there was none before. Only 6 percent of girls and 20 percent of boys go to school, according to the United Nations. There are few paved roads. Agriculture is suffering from years of recurrent drought, and the countryside is peppered with land mines and awash in weapons.
"Every Afghan from Hamid Karzai to the man on the street corner says his first priority is security," said Mark Malloch Brown, administrator of the United Nations Development Program, in an interview. 
"This is a country with a terrible history of sheer absence of law and order. When they say security they don't necessarily mean blue helmets, but neighborhood policing, people in the streets.
He added: "The second thing is a government. The critical thing here is to reestablish a government that people feel they get benefits from and that they can place their trust in. There hasn't been that kind of government for 20 years, and more than half of Afghans are under 20."
On Sunday, Mr. Brown's agency arranged the delivery of $6 million to Kabul to finance Afghanistan's bankrupt interim government's operating budget for the next month. Realistically, he said, the interim government of Mr. Karzai would have no meaningful income for the next two years, during which the World Bank, the United Nations and the Asian Development Bank will pay salaries and oversee government spending.
Today, Mr. Karzai pledged to hire a "reputable international firm to audit our expenditures on a regular basis," and insisted: "The elimination of corruption is one of my top priorities."
In recent years, the conference host, Japan, has provided large-scale financial assistance in international crises, but its budget was recently cut by 10 percent, a victim of economic crisis and falling public support for spending overseas.
"We must do a better job of promoting the concept of Japan being useful to the world," said Hasashi Owada, a former Japanese representative to the United Nations. "While I think it is important that we make a financial contribution, what I think is more important is that Japan be involved in doing things that are helpful to Afghanistan. We should be involved politically, and we should be involved in reconstruction activities, not just in providing financial assistance."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 22, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page subheading yesterday about foreign aid to Afghanistan misstated a word in some copies in a comment from Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. He said, "Let us build a new history," not "a new future."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hamid Karzai, Afghanistan's interim leader, with Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at a meeting in Tokyo today on aid for his country. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan with Afghanistan's interim leader, Hamid Karzai, during a meeting in Tokyo on Afghan relief. (Associated Press)(pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); REFUGEES (71%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); DRUG INTERDICTION (55%) FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) PURDUM, TODD S; FRENCH, HOWARD W; POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); KARZAI, HAMID 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (89%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (89%) AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



659 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Lieberman Feels the Sting Of Criticism Over Enron
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman embodies the way Enron's collapse has tied the capital in political knots.
 Mr. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat, has been buffeted with criticism from both sides of the aisle for his stewardship of one of 10 Congressional committees now investigating Enron. Section A. 

Harvey L. Pitt's idea to create a group with outside experts to oversee accountants strikes some as a plan for installing new gutters and downspouts during a hurricane. Section A.

A Bright Side to the End of Talk?
The suspension of Talk Magazine, the joint venture of Miramax Films and Hearst, may have an upside for Harvey Weinstein. He will be better able to shed some responsibilities and refocus on what made Miramax a movie powerhouse and transformed him into one of the most controversial executives in the movie industry. C7.

Amazon Processes More With Less
Amazon.com, once the champion of the strategy "get big fast," has learned how to become small. On Dec. 11, its busiest day last year, Amazon's warehouses employed one-third fewer people than the year before. Even so, the workers processed what analysts estimate were 10 to 15 percent more items. C3.

Palm to Complete Software Spinoff
Palm plans to announce today that it has completed the spinoff of its software division into a separate subsidiary, although it will remain Palm's largest customer. C8.

Bloomingdales.com Retrenches
Bloomingdales.com plans a retrenchment from its once aggressive Internet sales strategy. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C6.

Software Screens Trading Partners
Companies have scrambled to make sure they are not doing business with terrorist organizations, often turning to software to screen trading partners. New Economy. C3.

Newspaper Shares Its Discovery
For $1,100, The Wall Street Journal came into possession of a hard drive and a laptop computer from a home in Kabul, the Afghan capital -- two artifacts of potentially immense journalistic, legal and intelligence value. The Journal has since shared its find with readers and the Defense Department. Media. C2.

Bank Merger in Greece Falls Apart
A planned merger of Greece's two largest banks fell apart when the banks called off their talks, citing "radical differences" in management styles that had blocked progress. C4.

Ozzy Osbourne's Family, Unplugged
"The Osbournes" is MTV's newest experiment in voyeurism. After "The Real World" on Tuesday, March 5, MTV will begin showing the results of cohabiting for months with the family of the singer Ozzy Osbourne. Once known for drawing blood on stage and fighting off parent groups who considered his music, and actions, Satanic, Mr. Osbourne, 53, now has more mundane worries. C7.

U.S. Markets Are Closed Today
Financial markets, government offices and many banks in the United States are closed today in observance of Martin Luther King's birthday. They will reopen tomorrow. Markets in other countries will be open today.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 9,771.85 down 215.68Nasdaq composite -- 1,930.34 down 92.1210-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.88% up 0.02The euro -- $0.8843 down 0.0082The dollar -- 132.62 yen up 0.38

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MERGERS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (88%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (87%); STOCK INDEXES (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); SALES PLAN (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (65%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (65%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (65%); NEW ECONOMY (64%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (64%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (63%); MUSIC (63%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); TERRORISM (50%) 21$03; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BLOOMINGDALES.COM (91%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (91%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (91%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); GREECE (85%)

TITLE: BUSINESS DIGEST (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



660 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE POLITICIANS; 
Enron Spread Contributions on Both Sides of the Aisle

BYLINE:  By DON VAN NATTA Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20 

 BODY:
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman embodies how the Enron Corporation's collapse has tied the capital in political knots.
 Already, Mr. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat who will strike the gavel on Thursday to open the new year's first Congressional hearing on Enron, has been buffeted by criticism from both sides of the aisle for his stewardship of one of the many Congressional committees investigating Enron's spectacular fall. 
 Republicans complain that Mr. Lieberman should recuse himself because his former chief of staff, Michael Lewan, was a lobbyist for Enron. Others have raised questions about campaign donations to Mr. Lieberman and political groups close to him from Enron and its accounting firm, Arthur Andersen. And some fellow Democrats are expressing dissatisfaction that Mr. Lieberman, who harbors presidential aspirations, has not made the Bush administration his prime target. 
The bipartisan criticism of Mr. Lieberman reflects how deeply Enron, its campaign money and its deregulatory agenda have become imbedded in Washington's money culture these last dozen years.
Like many Fortune 100 companies, Enron, a Houston energy-trading company, spread largess all over Washington. Although it gave more money to Republicans, it gave plenty to Democrats, too, including Senators Charles E. Schumer of New York, Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and John B. Breaux of Louisiana. 
Enron has written campaign checks to three-fourths of the senators, and nearly half of the members of the House. Perhaps because of those donations, Democrats and Republicans have promised to aggressively investigate Enron's financial problems and their impact on thousands of employees for fear of looking soft on the company. 
"They are all living in a glass house," Mary Matalin, the counselor to Vice President Dick Cheney, said of lawmakers on Capitol Hill. "How far are they going to go with guilt by contribution?" 
Everyone agrees Enron's decision to seek bankruptcy protection, the biggest in American history, is a corporate scandal. While most politicians say it has the classic elements of a political scandal, too, they insist it is still too early to declare it one. Many elected officials on Capitol Hill are proceeding cautiously as they embark on lengthy and complicated inquiries. 
"I think they are being cautious because they don't know all the facts," a Republican strategist, Charles Black, said. "This is a very complex thing. And there is no evidence that any elected official or government official did anything untoward. So they are right to be cautious."
Mr. Lieberman was asked by a legal watchdog group to recuse himself because a group he co-founded, the New Democrats Network, had received $25,000 from Enron. Critics have also pointed out that Citigroup, Enron's largest lender, is Mr. Lieberman's top donor, giving his campaigns $112,000 since 1997, campaign records show. A longtime Republican strategist put it this way, "Lieberman's problem is simple -- Enron's biggest creditor is his campaign's biggest contributor." 
For his part, Mr. Lieberman has promised to conduct a fair and thorough inquiry that will not become "a witch hunt." 
Enron, Arthur Andersen and Vinson & Elkins, a Houston law firm, are among the most generous contributors to Mr. Bush's 2000 presidential campaign. Enron has given more than $700,000 to Mr. Bush since 1993; no company has given him more. In addition, Enron's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, was one of the "pioneers," raising more than $100,000 for Mr. Bush's campaign, and he and his wife gave a total of $10,000 to Mr. Bush's Florida recount fund. Enron and Mr. Lay also contributed a total of $200,000 to Mr. Bush's inaugural festivities.
While Enron's accounting problems worsened last September, Mr. Lay continued to raise money for candidates. He was host of a luncheon for Elizabeth Dole, who is running for United States Senate from North Carolina, at the Four Seasons hotel on Sept. 20. The event raised about $20,000 for Mrs. Dole's campaign, but she has pledged to donate Mr. Lay's contribution -- about $5,000 -- to the Enron employees' fund. Other candidates, lawmakers and campaign committees are busily returning Enron donations.
The Congressional panels are focusing on the reasons for Enron's collapse. They intend to investigate an array of issues, including retirement fund management, the oversight of energy trading markets and financial accounting and auditing. 
The Senate Government Affairs Committee, whose chairman is Mr. Lieberman, will look at whether regulators could have done more to monitor the company's practices. The House Energy and Commerce Committee, led by Representative Billy Tauzin, Republican of Louisiana, has been the quickest out of the gate, with an investigation focusing on Enron and Arthur Andersen. Last week the committee released a letter from an Enron vice president, Sherron S. Watkins, that warned Mr. Lay last August about enormous losses and possible illegalities in several Enron partnerships.
Mr. Tauzin received campaign money from Enron and Arthur Andersen, but committee investigators have aggressively sifted through more than two million documents.
Congressional committees have sent out hundreds of subpoenas, causing concerns among Justice Department lawyers who say they are worried that key executives at Enron and Arthur Andersen may compromise any future prosecutions. 
The hazard lies in any grant of immunity to the witnesses testifying before any of the Congressional committees investigating them. Prosecutors would then have to show they did not use any of this testimony to find witnesses or to gather evidence against them. 
This hurdle for the government became clear in 1991, when an appeals court reversed a conviction in the Iran-contra case of John M. Poindexter, the former national security adviser, and caused the independent prosecutor to drop all charges against Oliver L. North, saying prosecutors would not be able to show that the testimony used to convict Mr. North had not been affected by his testimony to Congress. 
Brian Sierra, a Justice Department spokesman, said, "We're not going to comment on potential trouble down the road. We're aware of the need for Congressional oversight. We are going down the road of a criminal investigation. We'll work with Congress on this issue. If a problem presents itself, we'll work those problems out." 
On the political front, Representative Henry A. Waxman of California, the ranking Democrat on the Government Reform Committee, has posed questions about Enron's contacts with several administration officials, including Mr. Cheney and Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's economic adviser. But the committee chairman, Representative Dan Burton, Republican of Indiana, does not intend to hold hearings on Enron, a spokesman for Mr. Burton said. 
The Congressional inquiries will focus mainly on accusations of corporate malfeasance, but investigators for several of the committees looking into Enron's political contacts can be divided into three general areas of inquiry, President Bush, Vice President Cheney and Texas legislators. 
At a White House question-and-answer session with reporters, the president said that Mr. Lay had supported his opponent, Ann Richards, when he ran for governor of Texas in 1994. It is true that Enron had given money to both sides, but Mr. Lay and Enron gave more than three times more money to Mr. Bush than to Ms. Richards.
For years, Mr. Bush affectionately called Mr. Lay Kenny Boy, but recently at the White House the president referred to him as Mr. Lay. 
In response to questions from Mr. Waxman, the vice president's counsel revealed that in 2001 Mr. Cheney met once with Enron executives and members of his staff four times to discuss energy policy. 
Mr. Waxman released a report that identified 17 areas of the administration's energy plan, drafted by Mr. Cheney's task force, that had also been advocated by Enron. 
Ms. Matalin, Mr. Cheney's aide, said that none of the provisions were given to the administration by Enron. 
"Just because someone endorsed it, doesn't mean someone put it in there," she said. "This is just good energy policy."
Enron's financial problems have reignited a push for Mr. Cheney to release a list of people who met with the energy task force last year. The White House has declined to release the list. The General Accounting Office will decide next month whether to go to court to require the administration to release it. Ms. Matalin said the administration was withholding the list "on principle" to protect the participants' privacy. 
Representative Tom DeLay, whose district is in Houston and its suburbs, near Enron's headquarters, received $28,900 since 1989 from the company. 
Enron also hired as lobbyists two influential members of Mr. DeLay's inner circle, Ed Buckham and Karl Gallant. And Enron and Mr. Lay were also contributors to the Republican Majority Issues Committee, a group close to Mr. DeLay. 
The Enron dealings of Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, and his wife, Dr. Wendy Gramm, a member of the Enron's board of directors and former head of the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, have also drawn scrutiny because of their involvement in regulatory issues affecting Enron. 
But Enron also gave $42,750 to Representative Ken Bentsen and $38,000 to Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, both Texas Democrats.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Enron Hearings on Capitol Hill"SENATE COMMITTEES BankingFeb. 12, 10 a.m.Will hold an oversight hearing to look into accounting and investor protection issues in connection with Enron and problems with other public companies. CommerceFeb. 4, 9:30 a.m.Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs will look at consumer fraud questions and also whether Enron's lobbying affected deregulation of energy markets. Enron's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, is scheduled to testify. Energy and Natural ResourcesJan. 29 (tentative)Will focus on the effect on energy markets: competition, government oversight and energy trades. FinanceNo date setWill investigate whether regulation of retirement plans should be strengthened and examine Enron's compliance with tax laws, in particular its use of tax shelters. Governmental AffairsJan. 24, 10 a.m.Will consider whether federal regulatory agencies could have done more to prevent the Enron failure, and focus on possible conflicts of interest among directors, accountants and banking firms. Governmental Affairs Subcommittee on InvestigationsNo date setWill look at Enron's internal affairs, its executives and their relationship with the outside auditor. Health, Education, Labor and PensionsFeb. 7, 10 a.m.Will concentrate on Enron's handling of its 401(k) plan. HOUSE COMMITTEES Education and the Work ForceTentatively set for week of Feb. 5Will examine Enron's benefits plan and its compliance with laws on employer-sponsored pension plans. Energy and CommerceNo date setWill conduct a review of S.E.C. oversight of Enron and the accounting questions involving Arthur Andersen. Jan. 24, 9:30 a.m.The Subcommittee on Oversightand Investigations will conduct a review of the destruction of Enron-related documents by Andersen personnel. Financial ServicesNo date setWill attempt to re-evaluate the regulation of the accounting industry, the impact on commodity markets, and potential securities fraud. (Sources: Committees; Congressional Quarterly)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LOBBYING (79%); DEREGULATION (79%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); ENERGY MARKETS (67%); SCANDALS (67%); HISTORY (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%) CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (94%); JEFF BINGAMAN (59%); DICK CHENEY (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%) VAN NATTA, DON JR; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); LEWAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2002 



661 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL HEALTH; 
Misunderstood Opioids and Needless Pain

BYLINE:  By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
Chronic pain suffered by 30 million Americans robs people of their dignity, personality, productivity and ability to enjoy life. It is the single most common reason people go to doctors, contributing to an overall cost to the economy of billions of dollars a year.
 Yet chronic pain, whether caused by cancer or a host of nonmalignant conditions, is seriously undertreated, largely because doctors are reluctant to prescribe -- and patients are reluctant to take -- the drugs that are best able to relieve persistent, debilitating, disabling pain that fails to respond to the usual treatments. 
 These drugs are called opioids, which are natural and synthetic compounds related to morphine, generally known as narcotics. Many studies have indicated that ignorance and misunderstanding seriously impede their appropriate use. 
Studies suggest that about half of patients with cancer-related pain and 80 percent of those with chronic noncancer pain are undertreated as a result. These patients suffer needlessly, as do their loved ones.
"Some patients who experience sustained unrelieved pain suffer because pain changes who they are," say Dr. C. Richard Chapman of the University of Utah School of Medicine and Dr. Jonathan Gavrin of the University of Washington School of Medicine. 
Chronic pain, they wrote in The Lancet medical journal, results in "an extended and destructive stress response" characterized by brain hormone abnormalities, fatigue, mood disorders, muscle pain and impaired mental and physical performance.
Neurochemical changes caused by persistent pain perpetuate the pain cycle by increasing a person's sensitivity to pain and by causing pain in areas of the body that would not ordinarily hurt.
"This constellation of discomforts and functional limitations can foster negative thinking and create a vicious cycle of stress and disability," the researchers wrote. "The idea that one's pain is uncontrollable in itself leads to stress. Patients suffer when this cycle renders them incapable of sustaining productive work, a normal family life and supportive social interactions."
Dr. Jennifer P. Schneider, a specialist in addiction medicine and pain management in Tucson, Ariz., agrees. "When patients feel hopeless and think they will never get relief, it makes chronic pain and its effects that much worse," she said in an interview.

Abundance of Misinformation
Far too little has been done to correct the misunderstandings of both patients and doctors that stand in the way of using opioids to control chronic pain. Nowadays, doctors are more inclined to use narcotics for pain relief in patients with advanced cancer, assuming erroneously that "since they're dying anyway, it won't matter if they become addicts." But the reluctance to use opioids for noncancer-pain patients persists, and patients are equally likely to resist taking them should they be prescribed. 
"Like most doctors, most patients are relatively uninformed about the safety of using narcotics for pain, thinking they're dangerous drugs that will do bad things to them," Dr. Schneider explained. "They don't understand the difference between physical dependence and addiction, and as a result they're afraid they'll become addicts."
As Dr. Henry McQuay, a pain specialist at the University of Oxford in England, put it: "Opioids are our most powerful analgesics, but politics, prejudice and our continuing ignorance still impede optimum prescribing. What happens when opioids are given to someone in pain is different from what happens when they are given to someone not in pain. The medical use of opioids does not create drug addicts, and restrictions on this medical use hurt patients."
In three studies involving nearly 25,000 patients treated with opioids who had no history of drug abuse, only seven cases of addiction resulted from the treatment.
Dr. Schneider was distressed last month by a segment of "48 Hours" on CBS depicting a woman who had been taking the sustained-release opioid OxyContin. The woman said that although the drug had relieved her chronic pain, she stopped taking it because she feared becoming an addict. But instead of tapering off gradually, she quit cold turkey. As any pain expert would predict, she suffered withdrawal symptoms typical of physical dependence on a narcotic: aches all over, tearing eyes, runny nose, abdominal cramps and diarrhea.
Physical dependence, whether to an opioid or to an immune-suppressing drug like prednisone, involves reversible changes in body tissues. To avert withdrawal symptoms, the medication must be stopped gradually. Addiction is mainly a psychological and behavioral disorder.
Dr. Schneider described the hallmarks of addiction, whether to alcohol or narcotics, as loss of control over use, continuing use despite adverse consequences, and obsession or preoccupation with obtaining and using the substance. 

The Benefits of Relief
Unlike an addict, whose life becomes increasingly constricted by an obsession with drug use, a patient using the drug for pain experiences an expansion of life when relief comes from this life-inhibiting disorder, Dr. Schneider said. An addict gets high by taking the drug in a way that rapidly increases the dose reaching the brain. But opioids properly used for pain do not result in a "rush" or euphoria. When given for chronic pain, opioids are typically given in a form that provides a steady amount throughout the day.
Nor do pain patients require ever-increasing amounts of opioids to achieve pain control, because patients in pain do not become "tolerant" to properly prescribed opioids. Higher doses are needed only if an inadequate amount of the drug is given in the first place or if the pain itself worsens with time.
Tolerance does develop to some of the common side effects of opioids, including sedation, respiratory depression and nausea, although constipation tends to persist as long as the drug is taken. But an opioid taken to relieve chronic pain does not block acute pain sensations that might result, for example, from surgery or an injury. A broken arm or gallbladder surgery will hurt just as if no opioid were being taken and will require additional treatment with some other analgesic, Dr. Schneider said.
Of course, round-the-clock narcotics are only one aspect of proper treatment for chronic pain that fails to respond adequately to lesser drugs. As Dr. Schneider explained, chronic pain is "a primary disorder" that can itself cause disabling complications, including difficulty sleeping, muscle spasms and depression.
Thus, pain specialists commonly prescribe a low-dose antidepressant like Elavil to promote sounder sleep, muscle relaxants and anticonvulsants to relieve spasms, anti-inflammatory drugs, full-dose antidepressants to counter depression and an increase in physical activity to improve mood and reduce feelings of incapacity.
Patients may also be referred to psychologists for cognitive-behavioral therapy, physiatrists (for exercises and pain-relieving injections), physical therapists, hypnotists, biofeedback specialists and even acupuncturists, Dr. Schneider said.
To help reduce the risk of drug abuse, Dr. Schneider and many other pain specialists insist that before receiving opioids for chronic pain, patients sign a "contract" that, among other things, insists that only one doctor and one pharmacy be used to provide opioids and that no change in dose be made without prior consultation with the prescribing physician.
The contract also states that there will be "no early refills," no matter what the excuse, and that patients must agree to undergo random urine drug tests if the doctor suspects the drug is being abused. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Jennifer P. Schneider, a pain specialist in more than one way (she recently broke a leg), says pain is often undertreated. (Norma Jean Gargasz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (90%); CHRONIC DISEASES (90%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (76%); NEUROSCIENCE (76%); MENTAL ILLNESS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (75%); FAMILY (73%); BONE FRACTURES (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%) PAIN; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (55%)

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E 

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: PERSONAL HEALTH (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



662 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: Calculating the Benefits of Managing Stress 

BYLINE:  By DAVID TULLER 

 BODY:
Teaching cardiac patients how to manage stress may be as effective as aerobic exercise in decreasing the long-term risk of further coronary illness, and it may also reduce medical costs, researchers at Duke University Medical Center have found.
 The idea that lowering stress can improve outcomes for heart patients is not new. But the Duke study, which followed heart patients for five years, is believed to be the first to measure the benefits of stress management over a sustained period and to demonstrate its potential economic benefits. 
 "Lots of physicians remain very skeptical about the value of psychological interventions in treating patients with medical disorders," said Dr. James Blumenthal, a Duke psychologist, who was the lead author. "Our data suggest that these interventions do affect the process, and the benefits seemed to be maintained over time." 
The study, done in cooperation with the American Psychological Association, was published this month in The American Journal of Cardiology. It followed 94 men with previous heart problems and evidence of continuing ischemia, an insufficient flow of blood to the heart.
The subjects were divided into three groups. One group attended a four-month aerobic exercise program; a second participated in weekly stress management classes for the same period, and a control group received just the usual care for cardiac patients, including medications and regular visits to doctors. Aerobic exercise has long been considered a key to cardiac health.
The researchers followed up the patients each year for five years and recorded additional cardiac events, like heart attacks, angioplasty and bypass surgery. They calculated expenses from federal government averages for various procedures.
After five years, members of the stress management group had an average of 0.8 additional cardiac events each, compared with 1.3 for the group that received only the usual care. When medical costs over five years were tallied, the stress management group averaged expenses of $9,251 each compared with $14,997 for the members of the control group.
The exercise group also experienced more cardiac events and higher average costs per member than the stress management group. But when results were adjusted for age and cardiac history, the differences were not statistically significant.
Dr. Richard Stein, a professor of clinical medicine at the New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan and a spokesman for the American Heart Association, praised the study. "This study is suggesting that a cognitive-based model like this is one of the most powerful tools that we have," Dr. Stein said.
The stress management program emphasized the physiological effect of stress on cardiovascular disease and gave training in muscle relaxation. It also taught participants to recognize how they created stress in their lives through cognitive distortions, like mistakenly blaming themselves for bad luck.
The authors said the study had some limitations. The sample was small and not picked randomly. Also, participants suffered relatively few additional cardiac events, making definitive conclusions difficult.
Still, Dan Saldana, a data systems analyst at Duke with a history of heart disease, who completed the stress management training, said the techniques helped him break a longstanding conflict with his wife over family visits. In the past, he tried to create a rigid schedule of when they should be with which family. After the stress classes, he realized that his effort to control the situation was causing anxiety for both him and his wife, so he decided to explore compromises and remain flexible.
"It was an eye-opener for me," he said. "At first my wife was like, Who are you? But she began to trust me more when I told her that this was what I was trying to do to reduce stress, and that I wasn't trying to con her."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. James Blumenthal of Duke, right, found that managing stress helped heart patients, including Dan Saldana, left, who completed stress management training. (Jenny Warburg for The New York Times) Chart: "Learning to Fight Stress"Cardiac patients in a study's stress management training were taught to identify and correct anxiety-inducing beliefs with several techniques, including. Performing muscle relaxation and deep breathing exercises.Pausing before taking action.Writing down other possible ways of interpreting events.Reviewing better ways to respond to stressful situations. Here are five examples of irrational thought patterns that produce anxiety. Stressor CATASTROPHIZING -- Exaggerating the harmful effect of something that happens to you.Example: When your boss offers mild criticism, you're sure you'll be fired. PERSONALIZING -- Seeing yourself as the cause of a negative event.Example: Your child fails a test, and you assume it's because you're a bad parent. ALL-OR-NOTHING THINKING -- Reducing complex situations to absolutes.Example: You know you're not perfect, so you must be a total loser. OVERGENERALIZING -- Interpreting one unpleasant situation as part of an endless pattern.Example: When you are turned down for a date, you're sure everyone will reject you. MENTAL FILTERING -- Focusing on the bad while screening out the positive.Example: You obsess about your B in history when all your other grades were A's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (91%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (79%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); WRITERS (74%); STATISTICS (74%) HEART; STRESS (HUMAN); EXERCISE; RESEARCH; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (94%); AMERICAN PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSOCIATION (56%) DUKE UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER (DURHAM, NC) 

PERSON: TULLER, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



663 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1936 words

HEADLINE: The Hard Road Back For Paula Poundstone; 
Comic Tries to Save Her Career After Arrest

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
Seven months ago, until her arrest on child abuse charges, Paula Poundstone, a comedian with an amiably witty, improvisational style, had a flourishing career performing at theaters, colleges and corporate events. One of the few women to break out of the nightly grind of playing small clubs and theaters during the stand-up comedy boom of the 1980's, she had earned as much as $1.2 million annually in recent years.
 "It was a great career, and we think -- we hope -- that it still is," said Bonnie Burns, Ms. Poundstone's longtime manager. 
 Ms. Burns is part of a small team facing probably one of the toughest reclamation efforts that Hollywood's strategists and image molders have encountered. The task is difficult chiefly because the initial charges against Ms. Poundstone last June were so repugnant: lewd acts upon a child and child endangerment. 
In September she pleaded no contest to one count of felony child endangerment and one misdemeanor count of inflicting injury upon a child, and the other charges were dropped. But the circumstances that led to her arrest remain hazy, in part because court records have been sealed. Ms. Poundstone was placed on five years' probation and in December completed six months in a court-ordered alcohol rehabilitation center.
Ms. Poundstone, who at the time of her arrest had three adopted children and two foster children ages 2 to 12, said after entering her plea that alcohol "helped to create a dangerous situation for the children." But she strongly denied committing any lewd acts or child abuse.
Now Ms. Poundstone and her team are nervously moving ahead, most strikingly on Tuesday night, when she will be interviewed on by Maria Shriver on "Dateline NBC" and presumably will address the circumstances of her arrest. An interview in Us magazine is scheduled to appear later in the week.
But whether she has a future performing at corporate events, which provided a hefty share of her income, is unclear. Television appearances, too, remain uncertain. And for now Ms. Poundstone, 41, is back to playing smaller theaters, the types of places she had at one point left in favor of 1,500-seat houses.
Her only appearance so far was Dec. 14 at the Rio Theater in Santa Cruz, Calif., a liberal college town. The 700-seat theater was mostly but not entirely filled, and by all reports she was well received.
"This is my first night performing since I've been a criminal," Ms. Poundstone said after taking the stage. In reference to rehabilitation, she said, "It's kind of strange to see this many seats not in a circle."
Ms. Burns said the rebuilding process is a slow one. "How do you come back?" she said. "It's one step at a time. I'm optimistic because I don't know what else to be."
Hollywood and the public can be forgiving about stars with certain personal or legal problems. Ben Affleck has checked into a rehabilitation center for alcohol problems, Winona Ryder has been accused of shoplifting, and Robert Downey Jr. has been in and out of legal trouble because of a narcotics addiction. Mr. Downey's legal problems make studios, networks and insurance companies nervous, but Mr. Affleck, Ms. Ryder and other stars who have had trouble remain highly employable.
Even inferences involving children or familial upheaval can create a public climate of disapproval, although they can also be overcome. Michael Jackson was the subject of innuendo and the object of incessant tabloid headlines and talk-show jokes because of his closeness to youngsters. Whether the innuendo damaged his career is unclear, but his recent television special proved that he remains very popular. Similarly, the career of Woody Allen, who became mired in controversy when he began a relationship with the adopted daughter of his former companion, Mia Farrow, remains strong.
Will the public be forgiving about Ms. Poundstone?
Until now she has declined to discuss the case publicly. But she chosen Ms. Shriver to interview her to confront the issue head on. (The agreement with NBC precludes Ms. Poundstone from granting other interviews before the broadcast.) Although Barbara Walters, Larry King and other television interviewers had sought her out, she and her two advisers -- Ms. Burns and David Snyder, Ms. Poundstone's personal appearance agent at the William Morris Agency -- selected Ms. Shriver, who had already met Ms. Poundstone on several occasions. One was on Montana Avenue, a shopping street in Santa Monica, when the two women had their children with them.
"What we came to believe was that there was a news story here, not an entertainment story, and some issues needed to be put to rest," Ms. Burns said. "Maria had seen Paula with her kids in strollers. She had seen her as a mom, a good mom."
Ms. Burns said the connection between the women and the fact that "Dateline" did not plan just a sit-down interview appealed to her. "I liked the fact that she was out here," she said of Ms. Shriver. "And I liked the fact that she was going to follow Paula around."
Public relations experts who have dealt with celebrity scandals, usually involving drugs and alcohol, said that it would take a long time for Ms. Poundstone to recover professionally from her arrest, if she ever does. The experts said that making it especially hard were the now vague allegations involving children, allegations that Ms. Poundstone will have to confront somehow if she wants to restore her career.
One expert who represents top Hollywood stars, including some who have had to overcome personal crises, said that Ms. Poundstone must, in a handful of carefully selected interviews, be as "brutally honest" as possible. She must, this expert said, say that she was on the edge of personal disaster that threatened her and her children, and that she was now on the road to recovery. The expert said that the public was generally forgiving so long as the celebrity involved seemed honest and serious about overcoming the difficulties. "It will be a slow road back for her," said the expert, who did not want to be identified.
Making the job more difficult is that publicity over the initial charges far eclipsed the legal resolution, which came in a plea agreement at the Santa Monica courthouse on Sept. 12, one day after the terrorist attacks. Ms. Poundstone pleaded no contest to one count of felony child endangerment, which involved drinking and driving, according to the deputy district attorney in the case, Gina Satriano. The charge stemmed from an incident on June 6 when Ms. Poundstone drove four of her children to get ice cream, her lawyer, Steven Cron, said.
At the time the records were sealed, the prosecutors dropped three counts of lewd acts upon a child. In exchange, Ms. Poundstone pleaded no contest to a misdemeanor charge of inflicting injury upon a child. Ms. Satriano said last week that the charge involved "inappropriate touching" of one of Ms. Poundstone's children, a 12-year-old girl. Ms. Satriano said the details of the case were sealed to protect the child.
In addition to probation and six months in rehabilitation, Ms. Poundstone was ordered to perform 200 hours of community service, attend Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and a child-abuse program, and receive random drug and alcohol tests.
She was barred from taking in foster children again. For the time being her adopted children are not allowed to live with her, but she sees them often in monitored visits, her lawyer said. He added that Ms. Poundstone hoped to regain full custody soon.
Although in November she was found to be in violation of her probation for taking a prohibited, undisclosed medication, in December Judge Bernard Kamins released her from a rehabilitation center and praised her. "You have remained abstinent and done all the other tasks I asked you to do," he said.
After the arrest Ms. Poundstone lost two dozen bookings that had been scheduled from last summer to early this year. Many were canceled. Others were postponed. 
Mr. Snyder, who represents Bill Cosby, Don Rickles and Bob Newhart in their appearances at theaters, clubs and corporate events, said Ms. Poundstone's problems were compounded by across-the-board cancellations of theater and corporate appearances because of the nation's mood after Sept. 11, as well as the downturn in the economy.
For top comedians, an appearance before a corporate convention could generate as much as $1 million. Though Ms. Poundstone was not in that league, she had been especially popular at these events because of her offbeat, improvisational style, in which she would often joke with businessmen and -women. She also rarely used off-color material, a plus at such events, where families and spouses are often in attendance.
"The dot-com companies especially had big parties," Mr. Snyder said. "They had to have stars, feel-good things. Paula was popular with these companies. When they started failing, we got cancellations."
Ms. Poundstone, who grew up in Sudbury, Mass., began working in clubs in the 1980's with relaxed improvisations on topics from politics to Pop Tarts. Her career took off in the early 90's when she began appearing with Jay Leno on "Tonight." This led to her providing coverage of the 1992 Democratic and Republican conventions on Mr. Leno's show. "It made people see Paula in a different way," Ms. Burns said. "It reinvented her." 
The corporate dates followed. So did appearances at relatively large theaters. The attention was strong enough to land "The Paula Poundstone Show" on ABC in 1993, although it failed after two episodes.
In the meantime, Ms. Poundstone began quietly raising children on her own. Her friends said she never asked for publicity in that role and sought out children with difficulties. At one point, 11 children lived in her home, including three adopted children, one with cerebral palsy.
Ms. Poundstone and her advisers decided that the way to test the waters for a comeback was to return to some of the smaller theaters she had appeared at years ago. The larger ones she had been appearing in more recently were ruled out, as was an immediate attempt to return to late-night television, although Ms. Burns said Ms. Poundstone might welcome that chance in the future.
"Our effort is to try to book dates where they'll be successful so that people who go to the shows will have a great night," Mr. Snyder said. "You have a great night if a theater is sold out. You don't have a great night if the theater is half empty."
Ms. Poundstone's core audience over the years, Ms. Burns said, has been "hip college kids, 30- and 40-year-old couples, people who go to performing arts centers around the country, people who listen to NPR."
As part of the career-building process -- "a slow build," as Ms. Burns calls it -- Ms. Poundstone is booked in several smaller theaters and clubs that have welcomed her in the past. Appearances are scheduled at the Grove Theater in Anaheim on Feb. 16, the Palace of Fine Arts in San Francisco on Feb. 28 and in Las Vegas and Denver in March. She also plans to appear at a benefit for the homeless in late March.
Corporate events are another matter. "Is there concern about the corporate dates? Well, yeah," said Ms. Burns, sitting at a coffee shop near her office in West Los Angeles. "She's done nothing to hurt herself now that it's over. Can I sit here and say that she'll get corporate dates back? I don't know. I just can't imagine that two years from now they won't want her."
Ms. Burns said that Ms. Poundstone remained upbeat about her future. "She had a whole life before this happened," Ms. Burns said. "She told me, 'Gee, I hope this isn't the only way people see me.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paula Poundstone's return to the stage last month in Santa Cruz, Calif. (Associated Press)(pg. E3); Paula Poundstone, above in her backyard and at right during a November court appearance, was a top comedian until a child endangerment case last year. (Misha Erwitt for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE (92%); ARRESTS (92%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PROBATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FELONIES (78%); ADOPTION (73%); FOSTER CARE (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (63%) CHILD ABUSE; COMEDY AND HUMOR; TELEVISION; ALCOHOL ABUSE 

PERSON: POUNDSTONE, PAULA; WEINRAUB, BERNARD; SHRIVER, MARIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%) LOS ANGELES (CALIF)

TITLE: DATELINE NBC (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



664 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1425 words

HEADLINE: The Urge to Punish Cheats: It Isn't Merely Vengeance 

BYLINE:  By NATALIE ANGIER 

 BODY:
Over the last couple of weeks, as the Enron fiasco has played itself out like a louche fusion of Shakespeare and the old "Dewey, Cheatum & Howe" routine, Americans have been transfixed by the story, united in a nearly seamless sense of outrage.
 Regardless of whether any laws were broken in the spectacular collapse of one of the nation's largest companies, citizens of all political pipings have voiced disgust at accounts of top Enron executives selling off their stock in time to enrich themselves handsomely, while ordinary Enron employees were later forced to sit by in impotent desperation as their retirement savings evaporated. 
 In the ferocity of the public outcry, and the demand from even those with no personal stake in the Enron collapse that "justice" be done, some scientists see a vivid example of humanity's evolved and deep-seated hatred of the Cheat. The Cheat is the transgressor of fair play, the violator of accepted norms, the sneak who smiles with Chiclet teeth while ladling from the community till.
Human beings are elaborately, ineluctably social creatures, scientists say, and are more willing than any other species to work for the common good -- to cooperate with nonkin and to help out strangers, sometimes at great cost to oneself, as the death of hundreds of rescue workers at the World Trade Center only too sadly showed. 
Such a readiness to trust others, to behave civilly in a crowd, to share and empathize, to play the occasional Samaritan -- all the behaviors that we laud and endorse and vow to cultivate more fully in ourselves -- could not have evolved without a corresponding readiness to catch, and to punish, the Cheat.
Only recently have researchers realized that a willingness, even eagerness, to punish transgressors of the social compact is at least as important to the maintenance of social harmony as are regular displays of common human decency. And while the punitive urge may seem like a lowly and unsavory impulse, scientists point out that the effort to penalize cheaters is very often a selfless act.
In an article titled "Altruistic Punishment in Humans," which appears in the Jan. 10 issue of the journal Nature, Dr. Ernst Fehr of the University of Zurich and Dr. Simon Gachter of the University of St. Gallen in Switzerland offer evidence that people will seek to punish a cheat even when the punishment is costly to them and offers no material benefit -- the very definition of altruism. The researchers propose that the threat of such punishment may have been crucial to the evolution of human civilization and all its concomitant achievements.
"It's a very important force for establishing large-scale cooperation," Dr. Fehr said in a telephone interview. "Every citizen is a little policeman in a sense. There are so many social norms that we follow almost unconsciously, and they are enforced by the moral outrage we expect if we were to violate them."
Dr. David Sloan Wilson, an evolutionary biologist at the State University of New York at Binghamton, said, "People are used to thinking of social control and moralistic aggression as forms of selfishness, and that you must be punishing someone for your own benefit. But if you look at the sort of punishment that promotes altruistic behavior, you see that it is itself a form of altruism."
In their new work, Dr. Fehr and Dr. Gachter put 240 students through a series of "public goods" experiments with real monetary stakes, always a good incentive for cash-strapped young scholars.
Each participant was given an initial lump sum of 20 "monetary units" and allowed to play a series of games with rotating groups of three other participants. By the rules of the game, the members of each group independently decided how much of their sum to contribute to a community project, which in turn determined how much would be divvied up to participants in the end. The more generous each contributor, the better the group did as a whole, but there was always the risk of a participant's trying to freeload off the contributions of others. 
From one round to the next, students were kept apprised of the investment decisions by others in their group. In some cases, there was nothing they could do about their teammates' behavior. In other cases, though, participants were allowed to "punish" freeloaders and skinflints after the round was through: one monetary unit from them would cost the shirker three monetary units. Hence, cooperators had to pay out of their own pocket to express their disgust at another's selfish behavior.
The outcome of the study was striking on two fronts. One was the popularity of punishment when it was permitted: 84 percent punished defectors at least once, 34.3 percent took punitive action five times or more and almost 10 percent punished the stingy 10 times or more. And all this, remember, involved the doling out of mad money from people who really needed it.
The second significant result was that when the game was carried out under no-punishment conditions, cooperation among group members quickly broke down, and participants contributed progressively less to the public kitty as the rounds went on. But when the opportunity to punish and be punished was applied, individual contributions to the collective fund jumped sharply, and cooperation among group members grew stronger rather than weaker from round to round.
The researchers also asked participants to describe their feelings toward free-riders on a seven-point scale, from "no big deal" to "very angry," and about 84 percent ranked themselves a five or higher. A sense of emotional outrage is very easily evoked, said Dr. Fehr, and sometimes it feels almost good to indulge and stoke it.
Perhaps part of the reason it feels good to rail against the sinner is that not to do so seems irresponsible, if not cowardly. "Once you think of punishment as a form of altruism, then the kind of person who doesn't punish emerges as a kind of freeloader too," said Dr. Wilson, author with Dr. Elliott Sober of "Unto Others: The Evolution and Psychology of Unselfish Behavior."
The emotional palette behind the effectiveness of social control is a rich one, composed not only of a sharp sense of moral indignation and a fear of being punished, but embarrassment and shame when one violates social norms.
Dr. Wilson said that when he and his children, nonbowlers all, recently went bowling, they were mortified when others gently scolded them for failing to observe common bowling etiquette, like taking turns with bowlers in neighboring lanes. "My ears were burning with shame, and we fled as soon as we could," he said.
And sometimes the severity of the emotion far outstrips that of the transgression. Dr. Fehr cited a case during the oil crisis of the 1970's that led to long waits at gas stations, when one motorist shot another to death for attempting to butt into line. Some of the most odious of human behaviors, including torture, public stonings and lynchings, may all be examples of the meting out of altruistic punishment run amok.
The drive to punish selfish transgressors seems to be a basic human predilection. Paradoxically, it stems from something normally associated with rosy-eyed utopianism: according to most anthropological evidence, traditional hunter-gatherer societies have always been highly egalitarian.
In such cultures, there are no kings or commanders, and the bounty of a good hunt or forage is generally shared with the entire community. If one person doesn't like or trust another, the person may walk away, or articulate that distrust with the tip of a spear.
"Hunter-gatherer societies are scrupulously egalitarian, but not harmoniously so," said Dr. Herbert Gintis of the University of Massachusetts, a co-author on a commentary that appears with the current Nature research report. "They're violently egalitarian."
Despite its antiquity, the strength and expression of the urge to scourge is clearly shaped by culture. Anthropological studies by Dr. Fehr, Dr. Gintis and others have shown considerable cross-cultural variation in the ardor with which people seek to punish shifty noncooperators. As a rule, said Dr. Fehr, the more closely a society's economy is based on market rather than kinship ties, the more prevalent the use of altruistic punishment to bring others into line.
In other words, the more likely a person is to be negotiating with nonrelatives, and hence the higher the chances that selfish freeloaders will seek to infiltrate the system, the more important it becomes that everybody play by the rules. Or else. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); ETHICS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INTERVIEWS (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%) ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; CHEATING; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: ANGIER, NATALIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (71%) ST GALLEN, SWITZERLAND (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



665 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Land Rich in Subsidies, and Poor in Much Else 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: STUTTGART, Ark. 

 BODY:
From a distance, the rice capital of America resembles a small metropolis; its grain elevators and processing mills rise from the delta plains like so many skyscrapers plunked in the middle of unending rice fields.
 Up close, however, this town of 10,420 people gives an entirely different impression. 
 Smack up against two of the United States' biggest rice processing businesses lie neighborhoods of rundown houses and shanties. In the surrounding countryside, decaying towns like Altheimer offer evidence that the area's smaller rice farmers are going out of business at one of the fastest rates in the country. 
This region, whose farmers have helped make the United States the world's third-largest rice exporter behind Thailand and Vietnam, offers one of the starkest examples of the unintended consequences of the federal farm subsidy program.
The area ranks near the bottom in the nation for health and economic indicators like infant mortality, housing starts, bank deposits and nutrition.
But in a recently published ranking of who gets the most money from subsidies, recipients in this part of Arkansas captured three of the top five spots in the country.
Riceland Foods, here in Stuttgart, is No. 1, with $49 million over five years. Tyler Farms, in nearby Helena, is No. 4, with $23.8 million. And Producers Rice Mill, also of Stuttgart, is No. 5, with $19.8 million. 
That adds up to $92.6 million, the largest concentration of crop subsidies in the country.
But the subsidies have been lopsided. The top 1 percent of farmers and farm groups in the federally defined Mississippi Delta region receive 26 percent of the subsidies, or $1.9 billion. The bottom 80 percent receive only 9 percent, or $686 million, says the Environmental Working Group, which amassed the data through a Freedom of Information request. The group used its Web site, www.ewg.org, to make public every federal subsidy paid to every farmer from 1996 to 2000.
"We're worse off than Appalachia," said Kevin Smith, who represents this district in the Arkansas Senate and heads a commission to revive the area's economy. "Sometimes I think everyone here either gets a welfare check or a farm subsidy."
The once-gracious river town of Helena shows the effects of the demise of the small family farmer. All the public schools are boarded up. On tree-lined streets, elegant restored houses are flanked by abandoned ones.
"This is what happens when a town loses its middle class," said John D. Crow, who operates a bed and breakfast in Helena. 
Senator Blanche Lincoln, who comes from this area, argued in a recent speech that federal farm policy was harming rural America. 
"It is not only our farmers who are suffering as a result of failed government policy," Ms. Lincoln said. "The institutions of small-town and rural America -- local banks and merchants, feed and supply stores, equipment dealers, even corner groceries and family-owned hardware stores -- are all caught in the web of financial collapse."
Yet Ms. Lincoln, a Democrat, led other Southern lawmakers in blocking a proposal last year to limit the money a farmer can receive through subsidies.
When Congress returns next week and debates a new, $171 billion farm bill, lawmakers may take up the proposal again, but this time under new scrutiny because of the publicity brought by the Web site. 
Nearly every problem of the federal farm program is magnified in Stuttgart and its environs. 
Overproduction, fueled by the subsidies, has pushed crop prices below the levels of more than a decade ago, even while the cost of farming has skyrocketed.
Black farmers have inadvertently been penalized under subsidy formulas, because the formulas are based on 1985 farm production. At that time, they did not produce as much as white farmers, but after winning a lawsuit, they got help that allowed them to use more modern technology and increase their production. They want their subsidies increased to reflect their higher output. 
Perhaps most striking is the pace of consolidation of big farms -- what a state official referred to as the "plantation effect."
Because large farmers receive the largest subsidies, they are buying out smaller farmers, leading to what the Agriculture Department calls a "rapid decline" of family farms under 100 acres and the rise of old-fashioned tenant farming. Over three-fourths of rice farms are worked by tenants or part-owners, the department says.
The declining price for rice has threatened farmers like Joel Henderson, who lives in a house surrounded by pecan trees on the bank of the Arkansas River in Wright. Once prosperous but now burdened with more debt than he wants to carry, Mr. Henderson is easing out of rice farming on his 1,400-acre spread.
"It's a buyer's market for the grain companies," Mr. Henderson said. "I had the best crop in years but I lost all my savings because the price for rice is so low."
For black farmers, the publication of subsidy payments helps support their claim that the Agriculture Department has frozen old inequities into farm payments. 
Representative Mike Ross, Democrat of Arkansas, recently told a group of black farmers in Pine Bluff that he agreed with them. He showed them a letter he wrote to President Bush asking him to add enough money to this year's budget to increase subsidies based on updated production figures and thereby erase the difference between payments for white and black farmers. 
Larry Raspberry, a Jefferson County farmer, thanked Mr. Ross and said, "Those smaller rates have been choking the black farmers to death."
In other parts of the delta, small farmers have already lost their land and are now tenant farmers.
Tyler Farms, which received the fourth-biggest subsidy in the country, is made up of tenant farmers who work on a 60,000-acre spread owned by David Brooks Griffin and his father, Mr. Griffin said. 
"I don't farm," he said. "I just own the land." He declined to discuss the distribution of the subsidies.
For their part, Riceland and Producers argue that the size of those subsidies is deceptive.
These private companies are cooperatives that buy rice from farmer members who sign over some of their farm payments to the companies in a complicated system that then allows the cooperative to process and sell the rice on the wholesale and retail markets. 
Profits are supposed to be returned to the farmer in higher rice payments after covering costs and salaries. But many years, the farmers receive no better price from the cooperatives than they do from private brokers.
Even though Riceland had $750 million in sales last year, some farmer members, including Mr. Henderson, refused to sell to the co-op, saying they could make more money using a private broker.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Overproduction of rice, fed by subsidies like the $19.8 million received by Producers Rice Mill, has led to lower prices for farmers. A truck prepared to unload rice at the company in Stuttgart, Ark., right. Joel Henderson, a rice farmer in Wright, says the slumping price has forced him to use up his savings. "It's a buyer's market for the grain companies," said Mr. Henderson, who breeds horses for extra income. (Photographs by Staton Breidenthal for The New York Times) Chart: "LEDGER: Farm Subsidies in the Delta"In the federally defined Mississippi Delta, farm subsidies are even more con-centrated among the largest farms and farm groups than they are nationally. Percentage of all federal subsidy payments received, 1996-2000 Top 1% of recipientsIN DELTA REGION: 26NATIONALLY: 19 Top 2%IN DELTA REGION: 38NATIONALLY: 29 Top 5%IN DELTA REGION: 60NATIONALLY: 49 Top 10%IN DELTA REGION: 78NATIONALLY: 67 Top 20%IN DELTA REGION: 91NATIONALLY: 84 Bottom 80%IN DELTA REGION: 9NATIONALLY: 16 Map of the southern United States highlighting the Mississippi Delta area.(Sources: Environmental Working Group, from Agriculture Department data subsidies ; Lower Mississippi Delta Development Commission counties )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); RICE MILLING (90%); RICE FARMING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FAMILY FARMS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); BED & BREAKFAST INNS (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (68%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (63%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%); INFANT MORTALITY (53%) GRAIN; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); BLACKS; FARMERS 

PERSON: BLANCHE LINCOLN (51%) BECKER, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); GERMANY (90%); THAILAND (76%) ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



666 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-10

Gunmen Kill India Officers At U.S. Center in Calcutta
Gunmen on motorcycles fired at the American Center on a busy street in Calcutta this morning, killing at least four police officers and wounding more than 20, the police said. No claims of responsibility were made. Earlier, India renewed accusations that Pakistan had not firmly clamped down on terrorists based there. A1

Israelis Occupy City
The Israeli Army seized control of the Palestinian city of Tulkarm and also began moving into another West Bank city, Nablus. In Tulkarm the army imposed a 24-hour curfew and sent troops door to door in a hunt for militants and weapons. A4

Russia Moves on TV Network
A Moscow court ordered the Press Ministry to shut down the last independent network, TV-6. The plug was pulled at midnight. Network officials said they would appeal the ruling. A9

Dozens Die in Congo Blast
A gas station exploded in the center of Goma, a town devastated by a volcanic eruption, and dozens of people who had been looting gasoline were believed to have died when spilled fuel was ignited by nearby lava. A3

World Briefing A6

NATION CHALLENGED A11-13

More Nations Join Afghan Aid Effort
International donors pledged more than $4.5 billion over five years for the reconstruction of Afghanistan. The pledges, made at a Tokyo meeting, come close to meeting goals set by the World Bank and United Nations. A1

Iranian Influence Felt
Iran is said to be working to consolidate its influence in western Afghanistan through an alliance with the local ruler and shipments of aid and supplies that may include arms. A11

Tracking the Anthrax Source
Scientists say they have discovered genetic fingerprints that may help determine which of many laboratories is the likely source of the virulent microbe used in the attacks. A1

Britain Backs U.S. on Prisoners
The British government defended the American treatment of Al Qaeda and Taliban prisoners at the American naval military base in Cuba, saying three British citizens among the prisoners had "no complaints" about their treatment. Human rights groups have complained about the prisoners' accommodations and about photographs showing them manacled and blindfolded. A12

NATIONAL A14-16

Enron's Woes Revive Debate on Campaign Funds
Advocates of limiting money in politics say their cause has been reinvigorated by the Enron debacle, predicting that when Congress returns tomorrow, support will swiftly build for forcing the campaign finance issue to the House floor. Enron spread $6 million across Washington and both parties in the last decade. A16

U.S. Sees No Bar to Drilling
The Bureau of Land Management has found that allowing a company to drill eight natural gas wells on federal land adjacent to and within the Upper Missouri River Breaks National Monument in Montana will have little environmental impact. President Bill Clinton signed the proclamation creating the monument near the end of his term. A14

White House Portrait of King
Coretta Scott King gave President Bush a portrait of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Officials said it would be the White House's first portrait of the civil rights leader. Mr. Bush, who got less than 10 percent of the black vote in 2000, spoke warmly of Dr. King and his movement and announced plans for a "Martin Luther King Jr. Scholars Program." Earlier, Laura Bush spoke at Dr. King's church in Atlanta. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Bloomberg Uses Holiday To Reach Out to Blacks
Mayor Bloomberg used his first Martin Luther King Day in office to send signals that African-American leaders of all political views were again welcome at City Hall. He attended seven commemorative events, including one in Harlem at the National Action Network, the Rev. Al Sharpton's base, a place where Mr. Bloomberg's predecessor never set foot. A1

Neediest Cases B8

SPORTS D1-7

Mets Get a Slugger
The Mets got Jeromy Burnitz from Milwaukee in an 11-player deal that also involved Colorado. D1

Sampras Out in Melbourne
Pete Sampras fell to Marat Safin, 6-2, 6-4, 6-7 (5), 7-6 (8), in the fourth round of the Australia Open. D2

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Gene Linked to Prostate Cancer
Scientists have identified a faulty gene that appears to make some families prone to prostate cancer. A16

Stress and the Heart
Teaching cardiac patients how to manage stress may be as effective as aerobic exercise in decreasing the long-term risk of further coronary illness, Duke researchers say. F7

Health & Fitness F7

ARTS E1-12

Children's Authors Honored
David Wiesner received the Caldecott Medal for his postmodern version of "The Three Little Pigs." Linda Sue Park was given the Newbery Medal for "A Single Shard." E10

BUSINESS DAY C1-8

Kmart Filing Is Expected
The nation's third-largest discount retailer is expected to seek bankruptcy protection today as it seeks $2 billion in new financing to continue operations. Such a filing would probably rank as the largest retail bankruptcy proceeding on record. A1

Enron Files Recently Shredded
A former Enron executive said employees were shredding documents in Houston as recently as last week -- after the S.E.C. notified the company of its investigation. A1

Enron's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, got more than $200 million from Enron directly or through exercising stock options since 1999. Still, his lawyer said, he had to borrow millions. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A17

FASHION B10

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: A new rallying cry for reform; the prisoners at Guantanamo; restoring Yosemite.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E10
TV Listings E12
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); ARMIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (84%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); TALIBAN (76%); EVIDENCE (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); NAVIES (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); CURFEW (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (69%); BACTERIA (68%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%); OIL SPILLS (67%); FUEL SPILLS (67%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (65%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (63%); SCIENCE NEWS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (62%); NATIONAL PARKS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%) WEST BENGAL, INDIA (90%) INDIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CUBA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



667 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: DONORS; 
MORE NATIONS JOIN AFGHAN AID EFFORT

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
International donors today pledged more than $4.5 billion over five years for the rebuilding of Afghanistan, the center of the world's attention since the terrorist attacks on the United States.
 The pledges, made on the first day of a two-day international donors' conference here, came close to meeting the announced goals of the World Bank and the United Nations. 
 After relatively strong opening pledges by traditional donors like the United States, Japan and the European Union, many pledges poured in from countries not usually associated with international aid, including neighboring countries like Iran, India and Pakistan, as well as South Korea, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
Coming on top of a total of nearly $1.3 billion pledged by the major Western donors, plus Japan, Iran pledged $560 million, while India and Pakistan pledged $100 million each. The time span of the offers varies by country. 
The United States and United Nations have been concerned that Iran has been trying to exercise sway in Afghanistan. Today there were reports that Iran is working to consolidate influence with a local ruler in the city of Herat by sending aid shipments, which may include weapons. Page A11. 
The Saudis pledged $220 million, and Kuwait $30 million. South Korea pledged $45 million for projects over the next two and a half years.
"We're thrilled," said the Afghan Foreign Ministry spokesman, Omar Samad. "Every single dollar is appreciated. We're hoping that the international community doesn't just talk, that the international community delivers. And on the Afghan side, we hope we deliver on the promises made by Mr. Karzai today."
His concern, first expressed by the interim head of the Afghan government, Hamid Karzai, has hovered over the conference from the start. Few, if any, third world countries have ever attracted as much interest as Afghanistan, which is a testament to the sense of international urgency.
But international donors have a spotty record in following through on public commitments. The promises made here today under a bewildering assortment of currencies and terms, many of them by newcomers to the aid game, will make follow-up all the more crucial.
Many of the speeches today hammered away at the importance of keeping commitments. There are other reasons besides history to worry. The conference host, Japan, to cite but one country, is in the grips of an accelerating economic crisis that has plagued the country for more than a decade. Japan has pledged $500 million to the reconstruction effort, half in the first year. But while Japan's record in meeting aid commitments is good, public support for international assistance is crumbling.
Moments before the conference opened this morning, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill met briefly with the Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi to urge Japan to take stronger action to bolster the economy. Later, the Bank of Japan's governor, Masaru Hayami, warned of a deflationary spiral and said the economy faced further decline.
The mounting anti-aid sentiment and worry over the future could be heard in the complaints of a homemaker, who was interviewed about the subject today. "Why do we have to donate money to Afghanistan while the economy of your own country is collapsing," asked Teruko Okamoto. "The money will only be taken by top officials like Karzai and will never reach poor people."
"In Japan, stocks, national bonds, everything could be collapsing and we could be in worse condition than Afghans," said Ms. Okamoto, 61.
About two-thirds of Afghan adults are illiterate, half of the children are chronically malnourished and only about 6 percent of the population has electricity. But concern that donated funds will be pilfered or wasted has also been a major subtheme here.
Officials and advisers to Afghanistan's interim government are keenly aware of the risk of that sort of impression -- or even worse, reality -- taking hold. "We know ourselves that we have to have a transparency mechanism that will be credible," said Torek R. Faradi, a professor at California State University at Hayward who has become an economic adviser to the government. "We are inviting in an outsider auditor to see what we have done with the money. 
"It's also important for us to know how we spent the money. Rebuilding Afghanistan will take 10 to 15 years. We want to demonstrate that the money goes to the right place."
For his part, Secrretary Powell said he believed that Mr. Karzai would fulfill his pledge to hire auditors and assure that the funds were spent appropriately.
"I take him at his word," the secretary said, "for the simple reason that he knows that if he doesn't do these sorts of things, then the second-year money won't be there, and maybe a lot of the first-year pledges won't be there, if they don't see a system of accountability.
"I think he understands the importance of doing this right, and we've got to help him make that happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Afghanistan is seeking foreign aid to rebuild its public works, like this bridge on the outskirts of Kabul, which a bus struggled across on Monday. (Associated Press)(pg. A11) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Financing Afghanistan's Redevelopment"What the World Bank and the United Nations estimate will be needed to help Afghanistan rebuild, and a look at some of the money pledged by countries during a conference in Tokyo. ESTIMATED COSTSIn millions Security1 year: $2705 years: $1,060 Government and economic management1 year: 2605 years: 1,370 Social protection, health, education1 year: 2605 years: 1,430 Infrastructure1 year: 1705 years: 2,400 Agriculture, natural resources1 year: 705 years: 850 Total recurrent expenditures*1 year: 7005 years: 3,100 TOTAL1 year: $1,7305 years: $10,210 PLEDGESIn millions IranOver the next five years: $560JapanOver the next two and a half years: 500European UnionIn the first year: 495United StatesOver the next year: 297Saudi ArabiaOver three years: 220PakistanOver five years: 100IndiaLine of credit announced in Nov.: 100BritainIn 2002: 86South KoreaOver the next two and a half years: 45 *Figures include teachers, health workers and government functions that may becovered by Afghanistan in the future(Sources: United Nations Development Program; Agence France-Presse)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); TRENDS (65%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-INDIA; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SAUDI ARABIA; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-IRAN; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-KUWAIT; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-JAPAN; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-PAKISTAN; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%); BANK OF JAPAN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%) ;UNITED NATIONS; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%) SAMAD, OMAR; FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); HERAT, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (95%); KUWAIT (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) AFGHANISTAN; JAPAN; INDIA; PAKISTAN; SAUDI ARABIA; KUWAIT; SOUTH KOREA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



668 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: 37% Raise Proposed By Panel in Dispute At United Airlines 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
Mechanics at United Airlines should receive a 37.3 percent pay increase this year because their wages lag the industry, according to recommendations that a presidential panel sent to the White House today.
 The carrier's 10,600 mechanics should have their top pay rate increased to $35.14 an hour, up from $25.60, upon signing of a new contract, the board said after reviewing a dispute between United and its machinists union. 
The two sides have been negotiating for two years. 
 United, owned by the UAL Corporation, told the board in testimony this month that it had been losing $15 million a day because of the Sept. 11 attacks and recession and could not afford any wage increase. UAL's loss last year of $2.58 billion would account for about a quarter of the industry's loss, according to an estimate by Goldman, Sachs.
United said today that it had "serious reservations" about some of the recommendations and would discuss the issue with its board's labor committee on Tuesday. 
The company, which is based in Chicago, said it needed to reduce costs more to return to profitability. UAL's shares, which rose 99 cents, to $16, on Friday, have declined 58 percent over the last 12 months. Its shares did not trade today because of Martin Luther King's Birthday. UAL is set to report fourth-quarter earnings on Feb. 1.
President Bush appointed the board on Dec. 20 to avoid a strike, giving the panel and parties 60 days to try to reach a settlement. If there is no agreement, the workers are free to strike. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); AIRLINES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (68%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (71%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (71%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



669 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: A New Rallying Cry for Reform 

 BODY:
Congress returns from its winter break tomorrow to take up the defense of democracy against terrorism. Lawmakers would do well to note that American democracy is also being attacked from within by a poisonous system of unregulated campaign donations. There is no better illustration of the system's destructiveness than the fact that the attorney general has had to recuse himself from his department's investigation of Enron because Enron gave his campaigns a lot of money. Members of Congress find themselves in the same fix, and some are returning their Enron donations. Enron's vast contributions have already corrupted decision-making on tax cuts, energy policy and financial regulations. Now they threaten to hamper the investigation into one of the biggest business scandals in American history.
 There is one way that Congress can begin to cleanse itself of the Enron mess. That is to make the Shays-Meehan campaign finance reform bill its top priority. The bill, like a companion measure that has passed the Senate, seeks to close the "soft money" loophole that has allowed millions of dollars from corporations, unions and rich individuals to overwhelm and corrupt the campaign finance system. The Enron scandal has made the importance of that bill plainer than ever. 
 Aides to President Bush assert that since no one in the administration seems to have tried to rescue Enron, Enron's campaign money cannot be an issue. That is nonsense. In the last election cycle, Enron was one of the nation's biggest donors. The company and its executives doled out $2.4 million, more than two-thirds of it in unregulated soft money. What the administration fails to see is that, as Representative Christopher Shays points out, campaign money is given to obtain two things, influence and access. Enron clearly got what it paid for. Its executives were able to get through on the phone to virtually everyone they wanted.
Although Enron did not get everything it wanted from Vice President Dick Cheney's energy task force, the administration's regulatory policies were tailored to Enron's specifications. Last year's economic stimulus bill contained a tax break estimated at $250 million for the company.
The issue, though, is not Enron. It is the whole system. It used to be that corporate contributions and direct union contributions to candidates were illegal. Then in the 1980's, politicians discovered the soft-money loophole, through which donations could flow to parties instead of candidates. Soft money, which includes unlimited donations by rich Americans, has totally debased the system. Everyone in Congress knows it. The ban sponsored by Mr. Shays and Representative Martin Meehan of Massachusetts commands overwhelming support of the House. Speaker Dennis Hastert broke his promise last year to bring it to the floor for a fair vote. Now supporters of the legislation are within two signatures on a petition to force it to the floor. They should succeed before the end of the month.
When Shays-Meehan gets to the floor, House members have to gird themselves for a tough, insidious battle by opponents. Tom DeLay of Texas, the House whip and probable future majority leader, is already making plans to gut it with amendments that would weaken the bill or repel supporters. He is also promoting a sham alternative sponsored by Representative Bob Ney, an Ohio Republican, that would allow vast sums of soft money to keep flowing. Lawmakers should see those tactics for what they are. Tom DeLay is practically Mr. Enron in Congress. His Texas district is near the company's headquarters. He has raised money from Enron for himself, the Republican Party and advocate groups, in return backing energy deregulation, the company's favorite issue.
The Enron scandal has made consideration of Shays-Meehan imperative. Lawmakers should not think that the voters will be fooled if they try to weaken it. And Mr. Bush, never a big fan of campaign finance reform, should recognize the obvious -- that if he steps up and leads the fight, he could help cleanse his own administration of the taint of influence-peddling. All of Washington has been blackened by Enron's shameful conduct. Campaign finance reform is the path back to respectability. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); TAX LAW (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TERRORISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ETHICS (76%); SCANDALS (76%); ENERGY REGULATION (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); POLITICS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); PETITIONS (64%); HISTORY (54%) ELECTIONS; EDITORIALS; ETHICS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%) DELAY, TOM (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



670 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Enron's Woes Revive Debate On Campaigns 

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
The Enron debacle is proving to be an unexpected windfall for the effort to overhaul the nation's campaign finance laws.
 As politicians scramble to return contributions from Enron, the failing energy trading company, the advocates of limiting money in politics say their cause has been reinvigorated. They predict that once Congress returns on Wednesday, they will swiftly gain the support needed to force the campaign finance issue to the House floor. 
 "It's a huge development," said Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican who, with Representative Martin T. Meehan, Democrat of Massachusetts, is a leading sponsor of the bill to ban the unregulated and unlimited contributions to political parties known as soft money. 
Tales of Enron's largess -- the company spread $6 million across Washington and both parties in the last decade -- come just as the drive to overhaul the campaign finance law is at a juncture, promising the possibility of the most wide-ranging change in it since the Watergate era.
The re-energized push for an overhaul will still meet stiff resistance from Republican House leaders, who have stalled the bill and support a less stringent measure.
The campaign finance issue is not the only one affected by Enron. Enron's collapse could alter the debate over energy legislation, retirement legislation and even the negotiations on an economic stimulus bill.
The Senate approved an overhaul of campaign financing last year, after years in which the bill died in Republican filibusters. The bill would ban soft money and rein in advertising by advocacy groups.
In the House, the legislation has stalled. Its backers have been in a petition drive to push their bill to the floor for debate over the objections of the House Republican leadership. By December, they had 214 of the 218 signatures needed to prevail.
Now Representative Corrine Brown, Democrat of Florida, says she will sign, in part because of Enron. "To me, this is the people's House," Ms. Brown said in an interview. "The influence that the big dollars have, we need to limit it."
Representative Richard E. Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, has promised to provide the final signature if 217 other members sign. That leaves the coalition backing the measure just two votes short.
John P. Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois, said he was not sure whether the Enron situation had changed the political outlook for the measure.
"Enron's a different subject, really, from campaign finance," Mr. Feehery said.
Mr. Hastert would have to permit a vote on the bill if the petition drive succeeded, he said, adding, "Obviously, the rules of the House require you to follow the rules of the House."
Mr. Hastert remains opposed to the Shays-Meehan bill, and with the House whip, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, who has been an implacable foe of the bill, he has been promoting alternative legislation sponsored by Representative Bob Ney, Republican of Ohio.
An array of advocacy groups -- including Common Cause, the League of Women Voters and the Sierra Club -- have been running phone banks for the past week to put pressure on a target list of 25 House members to sign the petition.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, said at the Democratic Party's winter meeting over the weekend, "We are going to clean up politics in this country once and for all."
Mr. Gephardt's aides say he will personally press Democratic holdouts to deliver the last signatures for the petition.
Legislation similar to the Shays-Meehan bill passed the House in previous years, so there is optimism among the bill's backers that if they can get the legislation to the floor they will win passage. Other House members say the vote will be close.
For the many Republicans who contend that a ban on soft money would weaken the national political parties and abridge free speech, the Enron situation is galling. They contend that the phone calls of the Enron chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, to President Bush's senior aides and cabinet members this fall did not bring help for the collapsing company.
"If anything, Enron shows that money doesn't buy special influence," said Representative Thomas M. Davis III, who heads the House Republicans' re-election committee.
But John Weaver, a strategist for Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who put the battle against special interests at the center of his losing presidential run, compared the current frenzy to the one that swept the Capitol after President Bill Clinton pardoned Marc Rich, a fugitive commodities trader, whose former wife, Denise, was a major contributor to Democrats.
"Just like the Marc Rich pardon changed the environment a year ago and helped secure passage in the Senate," Mr. Weaver said, "we feel the washing of Enron money all around Washington will do the same thing in the looming House debate." 
Indeed, so toxic have the Enron donations become that all four of the Congressional campaign committees are returning contributions they received -- either to the company or to funds that have been established to help employees who have watched their retirement savings dry up.
Three of the committees -- those for the Senate Democrats, the Senate Republicans and the House Republicans -- received $100,000 apiece from Enron this fall, as the company's fortunes rapidly fell. The fourth, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, received $2,050.
Individual lawmakers, too, are racing to return money. Enron wrote campaign checks to nearly three-fourths of the senators and half the representatives over the years.
The Democrats are seeking to use Mr. Bush's close ties to Mr. Lay to underscore their theme that Republicans stand with special interests. The Republicans say they are prepared to fight back with their own choice examples of Democratic connections to Mr. Lay, like the case of Thomas F. McLarty III, the Clinton White House counselor who monitored the progress of an Enron power plant project in India; in 1996, just days before India approved the project, Enron gave $100,000 to the Democratic National Committee.
The charges and countercharges will keep the issue of political contributions alive, which is what the advocates of change want.
"In all the years of lobbying on this issue," said Meredith McGehee, senior vice president of Common Cause, "we're used to having to go out and make the case that this is a problem." 
"Now," Ms. McGehee said, "you go out there and people make the case to you."
Even if the coalition gets 218 signatures on its petition -- a majority of the House -- there are still ways for Republican leaders to delay a vote.
Under the complicated rules for such a petition, the legislation it forces to the floor can be considered only on certain Mondays. Often the House is not working on Mondays. So the debate could be delayed until April or May.
Once the Shays-Meehan bill goes to the floor, it will be subject to efforts to amend it and will have to compete against rival bills. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (94%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PETITIONS (86%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (72%); APPROVALS (66%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (65%) ELECTIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (72%); CORRINE BROWN (58%); RICHARD E NEAL (58%) MITCHELL, ALISON; SHAYS, CHRISTOPHER (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



671 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: Agency Backs Gas Drilling At New National Monument 

BYLINE:  By JIM ROBBINS 

DATELINE: HELENA, Mont., Jan. 21 

 BODY:
A federal agency has found that allowing a company to drill eight natural gas wells on federal land adjacent to the Upper Missouri River Breaks National Monument and within it will have little environmental impact.
 The agency, the Bureau of Land Management, says the wells should be approved, but it will not make a final decision until after an unspecified period for public comment. 
 The natural gas wells would be on the eastern end of the breaks at Bullwhacker Coulee. While no new leases can be approved because of the area's designation as a monument, the proclamation creating the monument along a 149-mile stretch of the Missouri River in north-central Montana allowed existing leases to be developed. The document was signed by President Bill Clinton in his waning days in office. 
Existing leases on the eastern end of the monument, including at least two covered by the bureau's finding, are the subject of a lawsuit filed two years ago by the Montana Wilderness Association in Federal District Court in Missoula and are awaiting a judge's ruling. The association argues that many of the leases are invalid under federal law. 
If the bureau allows drilling to go ahead in the contested area while the suit is pending, an association spokesman said, his group may seek a restraining order.
The Missouri Breaks were set aside largely because of the spectacular and unusual landscape, characterized by white, dun and red sandstone cliffs shaped by wind and water into twisting spires and towers.
Gas drilling can have serious environmental effects, said Dennis Tighe, a Great Falls lawyer who is a former president of the Montana Wilderness Association.
"You have to build a road or improve one and you have to build a pipeline," Mr. Tighe said. "The soils are so fragile, it's difficult to do without impacts that are going to last for a long time." 
The leases are owned by Macum Energy Inc. of Billings. The company's president, Ralph Gailey, said the wells were compatible with monument environmental values and could be drilled responsibly. 
The monument, which was greatly expanded and changed to a national monument from a wild and scenic river corridor by Mr. Clinton last January, has been the source of controversy in the wheat and cattle country of north-central Montana.
Some residents see the income from tourists that a new monument would bring as an important alternative to the waning agricultural economy. But some cattlemen fear that monument status will prevent them from running their ranches as they see fit. Bureau officials, however, say the proclamation specifically excluded private lands.

GRAPHIC: Map of Montana highlighting Missouri River Breaks National Monument: Suits are threatened over gas drilling in a national monument. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPROVALS (78%); RIVERS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); LITIGATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); JUDGES (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (63%); AGRICULTURE (60%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (54%) GAS (FUEL); EXPLORATION OF RESOURCES 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (84%) BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT; MACUM ENERGY INC 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (71%) ROBBINS, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOULA, MT, USA (79%); BILLINGS, MT, USA (79%); HELENA, MT, USA (71%) MONTANA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) MONTANA; UPPER MISSOURI RIVER BREAKS NATIONAL MONUMENT (MONT)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



672 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Differences In Congress On Fuel Use 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry, who is presiding over Senate Commerce Committee hearings on auto fuel-economy standards, supports tax credits for consumers who buy vehicles powered by hybrid gasoline-electric engines. But he will press to apply more stringent requirements than those passed by the House to determine which vehicles receive credits, Democratic Congressional aides said today.
 The House energy bill includes tax credits ranging from $250 to $4,500 for consumers who buy automobiles powered by the hybrid engines and other technologies. The incentives would help offset the higher costs of such vehicles, two of which, the Toyota Prius and the Honda Insight, are already on the market. 
 But Congress differs on the approach to planned hybrid versions of larger trucks, like the Dodge Durango. The auto industry has argued that broad incentives would encourage incremental gains for all sizes of vehicles. Senator Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, prefers a version of the tax-credit idea, previously proposed by the Senate, that would restrict the credits to vehicles that not only use such technology but also achieve certain mileage goals.
Senator Kerry is also trying to build support for raising corporate average fuel-economy standards by tying them to tax benefits for automakers, aides said.
Though the big automakers remain firmly opposed to raising the fuel-economy standards, Senator Kerry hopes to build some level of bipartisan support by offering tax breaks. The standards require each automaker's annual fleet of new cars to average 27.5 miles a gallon; light trucks, which include sport utility vehicles, pickups and minivans, must average 20.7 miles a gallon.
The standards have not been significantly raised since the 1980's, but the tone of the debate has changed since Sept. 11. Senator Kerry plans to make a speech on Tuesday, "Energy Security Is American Security," at the Center for National Policy in Washington. In a draft, he is sharply critical of the energy policies put forth by the administration and the House, saying they will not reduce dependence on Middle East oil. 
"The administration sees a world where our principal effort is to drill our way out of our problem," the draft says, while the policy focus should be shifted "to cajoling and exciting a new marketplace" for alternative and renewable energy. The senator supports a government initiative to shift 20 percent of the nation's electricity needs to renewable fuel sources by 2020, an idea already in a bill sponsored by James M. Jeffords, the Vermont independent. 
On automobiles, he does support the administration's recent initiative to finance research on hydrogen fuel cells, a technology that automakers see someday replacing internal combustion engines. But the speech draft states that the program was "no substitute, whatsoever, for modernizing our CAFE standards." The speech does not offer specifics on how much the standards should be raised.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); HYBRID VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); MINIVANS (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (73%); BIOFUELS (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (72%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (71%) AUTOMOBILES; TAX CREDITS; TAXATION; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; ENGINES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%) KERRY, JOHN F (SEN); HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



673 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: A Fiscal Fantasy 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
I want to share a fantasy with you. Trust me: it will explain everything you need to know about the budget debate. 
 Imagine a world in which the tax law doesn't mandate any future tax cuts -- absent further legislation, tax rates will stay the same as they are today. Any future changes in rates will require new legislation. 
 In my fantasy world, there's a budget deficit, just as in reality. Deficits also appear likely for the next few years, with somewhat iffy projections of a return to surpluses later in the decade. Just about all of those projected surpluses come from Social Security. In short, the fiscal outlook is tolerable but not great.
 Now suppose -- still in my fantasy world -- that the administration comes along and proposes a huge new round of tax cuts. These tax cuts aren't temporary measures designed to boost the economy -- on the contrary, they are permanent cuts that grow over time. Many of the proposed tax cuts won't take place until 2005 or 2006; some won't take effect until 2010. 
 The proposed tax cuts are also heavily tilted toward the wealthy. Two-thirds of the population would receive nothing at all; well over half of the total goes to people earning more than $200,000 per year.
 It's pretty clear that most voters, if presented with this proposal right now, would be strongly opposed, even outraged.
 But of course in the real world those future tax cuts -- which are exactly the way I've described them -- aren't being proposed now. Instead, they were smuggled into last spring's tax bill. That doesn't make the prospective tax cuts any less outrageous; but it does make it easier for the public to become confused about what's at stake. And everything the Bush administration says about taxes in the next few weeks will be designed to maximize that public confusion.
 First, administration officials will claim that people who want to cancel future tax cuts want to raise taxes. This is like George W. Bush's claim that the Enron chairman, Kenneth Lay, supported Ann Richards in the Texas governor's race (he did give Ms. Richards some money -- but he gave Mr. Bush much more). That is, you can try to rationalize it with fancy word play -- not cutting taxes is raising them from what they would otherwise have been, right? But it sure feels like a lie.
 Second, they will throw up a smokescreen of confusing figures to hide the agreed fact that tax cuts are a major reason for the abrupt collapse of the projected surplus. Let me repeat the words "agreed fact." Recently four independent projections were made of the budget surplus over the next decade: one each from the Democratic and Republican staff of the House and Senate. All four projections marked down previous surplus estimates by two-thirds; all four attributed about 45 percent, or $1.7 trillion, of the decline to the tax cut. Everyone expects the estimates that the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office will release tomorrow to look very similar.
 Third, they will claim that the future tax cuts are just what the doctor ordered to deal with the current recession. The C.B.O. disagrees; it declared, in a recent report, that accelerating those tax cuts would be ineffective as a stimulus measure. And if tax cuts now are ineffective, tax cuts later are even less effective.
 Finally, the administration will try to convince you that the return of deficits won't hurt you personally. But for millions of Americans deficits will soon began to pinch, hard. 
 A case in point: Just a few days ago a bipartisan panel recommended increases in Medicare payments, warning that a failure to raise them would jeopardize access to care for the elderly and disabled. Indeed, over the last few years many H.M.O.'s have either pulled out of Medicare or sharply raised co-payments, causing thousands of retirees to lose benefits; in some cases cancer patients have been forced to cancel chemotherapy. But though in the past Congress has usually followed the panel's recommendations, congressmen are now doubtful whether they can provide more money "in the current budgetary environment." That shrieking you hear is the sound of Medicare patients being denied coverage to make room for tax cuts. 
 And the chest-thumping you hear is the sound of an administration trying to prevent any rational discussion of the fiscal mess its tax plan has created. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (94%); BUDGETS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); GOVERNORS (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (52%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



674 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Kmart Expected to Seek Bankruptcy Protection
Kmart is expected to file for bankruptcy protection as early as this morning in Michigan, where it is based, according to advisers to the company.
 The final straw was a decision by the Fleming Companies, a major food distributor, to halt most of its shipments to Kmart after not receiving its weekly payment. Page A1. 

New Life for Campaign Finance
The Enron debacle is proving to be an unexpected windfall for the effort to overhaul campaign finance laws. As politicians scramble to return contributions from Enron, the advocates of limiting money in politics say their cause has been reinvigorated. "It's a huge development," said Representative Christopher Shays, the Connecticut Republican who is a leading sponsor of the bill to ban the unregulated and unlimited contributions to political parties known as soft money. A16.

Enron employees were shredding documents in Houston as recently as last week, a former executive said, the first indication that documents were destroyed amid inquiries by Congress and the Justice Department. A1.

Rating Agencies Consider a Change
The two leading debt rating agencies, Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service, said that they were considering changing the way they determine their ratings to make them more timely and reflective of market prices and sentiment. C6.

Willamette Agrees to Sweetened Bid
Willamette Industries said it had reached an agreement in principle to a sweetened $6.1 billion cash offer from Weyerhaeuser. The agreement could end Weyerhaeuser's 14-month hostile takeover bid. C7.

Germany Blocks Takeover by E.ON
Germany's federal competition office blocked E.ON, an energy company, from taking control of Ruhrgas, the dominant distributor of natural gas. But the companies, which have been expecting the verdict, are betting that they can persuade the chancellor and his economics minister to override the regulators. C2.

P&O Rejects Carnival's Higher Bid
P & O Princess Cruises rejected a sweetened bid from Carnival, the largest cruise line, and said it would press ahead with an agreement to merge with Royal Caribbean, the second-largest cruise line. C3.

Kerry Said to Support Auto Credits
Senator John Kerry, the chairman of a Senate Commerce Committee hearing on auto fuel economy standards, supports tax credits for consumers who buy vehicles powered by hybrid gasoline-electric engines. But he will press to apply more stringent requirements than those passed by the House to determine which vehicles receive credits, Democratic Congressional aides said. C5.

Raise Recommended for Mechanics
Mechanics at United Airlines should receive a 37.3 percent pay increase this year because their wages lag the industry, a presidential panel recommended to the White House. Wages at the top pay rate would increase to $35.14 an hour. C5.

Company in Animal Rights Battle
Huntingdon Life Sciences is at the center of a sometimes bloody battle between medical researchers and animal rights activists protesting the fate of 70,000 rats, dogs, monkeys and other animals used -- and killed -- each year in British testing laboratories. C2.

Stocks Climb in Argentina
Bank stocks led another day of frenzied trading on the stock exchange in Argentina as investors bought shares on news that the government was preparing to prop up the financial system by converting dollar-denominated savings accounts into pesos. The Merval index was up nearly 13.5 percent on the day, rising 55.69 points, to 470.55. It is up 59.3 percent for the year in peso terms. C3.

Overseas, shares dropped in Brazil, Canada, Europe and Japan, but they rose slightly in Hong Kong. C8.

U.S. Financial Markets Reopen
United States financial markets will reopen today. They were closed yesterday in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday.

GRAPHIC: Photos Graph: "TODAY" shows Leading Indicators since June.December figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.8%

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAKEOVERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (86%); CRUISES (85%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); MERGERS (70%); POLITICAL PARTY DONATIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (64%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (61%); HYBRID VEHICLES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); FLEMING COS INC (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); E.ON SE (54%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

TICKER: EOAN (FRA) (54%); EOAN (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); SIC5141 GROCERIES, GENERAL LINE (72%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (54%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (54%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (54%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



675 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Acampaign by a newspaper association hopes to offer ad executives a word or two of inspiration.

BYLINE:  By Courtney Kane 

 BODY:
FREE! New! Sale! Attach these adjectives to a picture of a sports car, a laptop computer or a piece of jewelry, throw in some fill-in text and bam, you've created a typical newspaper advertisement.
 But will those ingredients be enough to entice consumers to read it? Or will they just flip the page? 
 Some advertising executives are offering their best tips on how to write and create newspaper ads in a new campaign for the Newspaper Association of America. The effort is intended to invigorate the value of newspapers and to inspire other ad executives to produce copy that attracts readers. 
"Sometimes, newspapers are not considered too cool," said John F. Sturm, president and chief executive of the association in Vienna, Va. The trade group, which represents more than 2,000 newspapers in the United States and Canada, is up against much sexier advertising options, like television commercials.
"How to Write a Newspaper Ad" is the first work created for the association by the Martin Agency in Richmond, Va., part of the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The idea stemmed from a lunch between Mike Hughes, president and creative director of Martin, and Mort Goldstrom, the newspaper association's vice president for display advertising.
Mr. Hughes said he started talking about various ad executives and wanted to know what they thought about making newspaper ads.
Those executives, who are featured in the first series of ads are: Lee Clow, chairman and worldwide creative officer for TBWA Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group who is based in Playa del Rey, Calif.; Neil French, worldwide creative director at the Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide unit of the WPP Group, who is in Singapore; Luke Sullivan, chief creative officer at West Wayne in Atlanta. The fourth is Mr. Hughes, who said he participated because the agency was pressed for time and Mr. Goldstrom "really pushed me into it."
The four full-page ads feature bold illustrations and hand-lettered text written by the creative directors. In his ad, Mr. Clow, who is an art director, describes why he feels that designing for a newspaper is a special opportunity since the medium is "urgent, not yesterday or tomorrow but today so the message has to demand attention."
There are two kinds of newspaper ads that will work, Mr. Clow said. One is " 'a picture is worth a 1,000 words' approach," which he humorously describes as being "virtually a poster," by displaying a huge image of a product accompanied by a headline that says "Ta-Da!"
The other winning formula, he says is the " '8 or 900 words can be worth 1,000 words' concept."
"This is the 'we have a story to tell you' approach," he explains, adding that if it is "well written" and "interesting," it can "seduce a reader into spending four or five minutes with you (a lot more than a 30-second TV commercial)."
The first piece of advice Mr. Hughes offers is "Start with a large glass of Diet Coke on ice," which is not a plug for his agency, but for a sibling, Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide. Mr. Hughes, who describes himself as a Diet Coke junkie, says for inspiration, "open up a newspaper and remind yourself how big a newspaper is."
"It's huge, and it's just inches from your nose," Mr. Hughes said. "Too many ads become bloodless when writers become slaves to sophisticated marketing processes. Creative briefs are starting points, not finish lines."
He sums his advice up by saying: "Only after you've rewritten an ad 10 times are you free to say that the first version was the one to go with. Usually, incidentally, it isn't."
Mr. Sullivan's ad features a characterization of him with an anvil on his chest with a blurb saying, "The creeping horror." After writing 100 ideas, "A special sort of chest-splitting panic" creeps in as his deadline nears. To deal with this "horror," Mr. Sullivan writes, "mature writers pour another cup of coffee and buckle in."
Mr. Sullivan says he sneaks off and goes to a movie. After returning to the thought process, the ideas start flowing and, "I discover idea 101 clicks like a Lego into idea 131." And the anvil "that has been on my chest since I started writing, slides off."
The new ads come at a time when newspapers, along with all advertising mediums, have been hit hard by the economic slowdown. For the first nine months of 2001, total advertising spending in newspapers was $32 billion, down 7.8 percent from the corresponding period a year earlier.
The campaign was unveiled yesterday at the association's annual marketing conference in San Diego. Martin was given a small-undisclosed fee and the ads began running on a pro bono basis yesterday in daily papers. They are expected to run in trade publications like Advertising Age and Adweek. They can also be viewed at the association's Web site www.naa.org/adcampaign.
The campaign is expected to run regularly for the next two years with several other executives already committed, including Jeff Goodby, partner and co-creative director at Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, a unit of Omnicom.
"The work is different, and we're going to see what the reaction is," Mr. Sturm said. "When you are doing an ad campaign featuring creatives, directed to other creatives, you'd better be creative."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four ads, with illustrations and hand-lettered text, offer ideas on creating newspaper campaigns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%) NEWSPAPERS; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); WPP PLC (58%); NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWSPAPER ASSN OF AMERICA 

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (84%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%)

PERSON: WILLIAM P SULLIVAN (53%) KANE, COURTNEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (71%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



676 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 22, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Regulators in Germany Block Takeover of a Gas Distributor

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
The takeover fever in Europe's power industry reached a new juncture today, when Germany's political leaders were effectively handed responsibility for deciding between encouraging competition or supporting creation of a new national champion.
 In a long-awaited decision, Germany's federal competition office today blocked E.ON A.G., this country's second-largest electric company, from taking control of Ruhrgas A.G., the dominant distributor of natural gas. But the two companies, which have been expecting the verdict, are betting that they can persuade Chancellor Gerhard Schroder and his economics minister to override the regulators and clear the way for E.ON's international buying spree. 
 The issue is being watched closely across Europe. Everywhere, power companies are buying up rivals at home and, increasingly, reaching across borders for deals. At the same time, European antitrust regulators have become increasingly unhappy about the slow pace of liberalization in national electricity markets. Just last week, the European Commission warned member nations that if they did not move more aggressively to open their markets, it would impose rules from Brussels. 
The issue is highly political. Germany's economics minister, Werner Muller, was an executive at Veba A.G., which later merged with another utility to become E.ON. Mr. Muller has remained a strong supporter of electric companies, and he has given no sign that he will recuse himself from the E.ON-Ruhrgas matter. His ministry said today that it had not yet made any decision, but Mr. Muller is widely expected to support E.ON's request to override the competition authorities.
Germany opened its electricity market to competition two years ago, and prices plunged by more than 50 percent for many industrial customers. But the country's biggest regional utilities responded by merging with one another, and then looking for acquisitions across Europe and in the United States.
E.ON was formed by combining Veba, based in Dusseldorf, with Viag A.G. of Munich; it has since moved to acquire Powergen of Britain. Once an old-fashioned conglomerate with industrial businesses as well as electric utilities, E.ON has sold off billions of dollars worth of peripheral companies, redoubled its bet on the power industry and amassed a war chest of more than $20 billion. 
E.ON has combined revenue of about 65 billion euros, or about $59 billion, and is a close second in size to Germany's biggest power company, RWE A.G. It is the dominant electric utility through much of northern and central Germany, as well as in Bavaria to the south.
Ruhrgas delivers about three-fifths of the natural gas sold in Germany, and is a major importer. Its pipeline network is as long as Germany's autobahn system.
Ulrich Hartmann, E.ON's chief executive, wants Ruhrgas in part to leaven E.ON's heavy dependence on electricity. Natural gas consumption is growing fast in Germany, displacing electricity as a home heating source because of environmental and cost advantages over the coal burned in power plants. Nearly two-thirds of all new homes are built with gas rather than electric heating.
Mr. Hartmann is also concerned with foreign rivals. Electricite de France, which continues to enjoy a monopoly in its home market, owns a big stake in a south German utility. As the European Commission forces countries to open up their markets, former state-owned utilities are eyeing one another's territories.
E.ON hopes to take control of Ruhrgas in two steps. First would be a deal with BP, which has agreed to exchange its controlling stake in a company that owns 25 percent of Ruhrgas for E.ON's network of gasoline stations in Germany. Then E.ON would buy Bergamann, which is owned by a melange of industrial and energy companies and holds 34 percent of Ruhrgas.
The cartel office ruled that the plan "would solidify the market-dominant position of Ruhrgas" and probably strengthen E.ON's grip on the electricity market as well. E.ON immediately vowed to seek a "minister's exemption" that would override the cartel office, and it remains unwilling to make major concessions to win that approval. The battle could become intense. The opposition Christian Democrats have already voiced support for the cartel office, and will almost certainly accuse Chancellor Schroder of cronyism if he allows the decision to be overridden. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); PETROLEUM WHOLESALERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); DEREGULATION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (73%); POLITICS (73%); NATURAL GAS CONSUMPTION (71%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (71%) GAS (FUEL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: E.ON SE (98%); RWE AG (84%); E.ON RUHRGAS AG (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (56%) E.ON AG; RUHRGAS AG; VEBA AG 

TICKER: EOAN (FRA) (98%); EOAN (BIT) (98%); RWE3 (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (98%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (98%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (98%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (98%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (98%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (98%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (57%); SIC5983 FUEL OIL DEALERS (57%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (57%) SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES; 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (73%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); MULLER, WERNER 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); BELGIUM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2002 



677 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Swiss Knife Sales Slide at Airports 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
For years, tourists stopped in at the Coutellerie du Mont-Blanc shop in the Geneva airport and scooped up as many as a dozen Swiss army knives, the mainstay of the tiny business, to take back home as souvenirs for family and friends.
 But sales of the venerable -- and ubiquitous -- red knives with the white cross quickly plunged in such shops when airports around the world imposed strict security restrictions after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States. Suddenly, blades and sharp objects were banned from carry-on bags, backpacks and purses. 
 For the first couple of weeks after the attacks, "no one came in here at all," said Genevieve Loisel, manager of the airport shop, whose business in nail and household scissors also slumped. 
The shop still displays an array of Swiss-made knives, from the basic pocket knife to the complex SwissChamp with 33 gadgets. But sales have shifted, at least temporarily, away from tourists and toward local customers shopping for birthdays and similar occasions, she said.
Victorinox, the larger of the two Swiss companies that produce the brand, turns out 25 million knives annually. In the last three months of the year, its sales plummeted 32 percent from the period a year earlier, dragging down an otherwise booming year, its marketing director, Urs Wyss, said. For the year, sales were down 11 percent.
They have picked up a bit as passengers have grown accustomed to security constraints, he said, and have packed knives in their luggage or mailed them home instead of trying to carry them onto the plane.
But the 118-year-old Victorinox is still reeling. Twenty percent of its production, which includes 800 different models of knives -- not all the Swiss army variety -- stays in Switzerland. Half of that, however, has traditionally been purchased by tourists, who no longer can indulge in last-minute impulse buys.
In the United States, the company's biggest single market, sales were down 14 percent for the year through the end of September, according to its United States distributor, Swiss Army Brands of Shelton, Conn.
Tougher security rules, including one requiring the removal of any knives for sale from duty-free stores inside the secure areas of airports near the boarding gates, pushed year-to-date sales down 25 percent through November. Sales continued to show double-digit declines through December.
At Wenger, Victorinox's much smaller rival, sales were off as much as 8 percent in the last three months of the year compared with the last quarter of 2000, said Jacques Saucy, Wenger's president. The 109-year-old company relies heavily on sales of butcher knives, as well as the Swiss army pocket variety, for its business.
Sales were already flat because of the global economic downturn, particularly in markets like the United States, Germany and Japan, which had traditionally been big buyers of corporate promotional knives. For the year, sales were down 5 percent.
(Of course, some of the two companies' business is guaranteed: every year, the Swiss army buys half of the knives it gives to new recruits from Wenger and half from Victorinox.)
Overcoming the additional obstacle at duty-free shops is going to require considerable rethinking and innovation, conceded Jeff Turner, president of Swiss Army Brands.
"We think that our products are tools, and not weapons," Mr. Turner said. "I carry mine with me, and use it every day, but usually the scissors, the toothpick or the bottle opener, and not the knife. So the question becomes, can we have a pocket knife without a knife?"
For starters, the companies hope to wean customers off last-minute purchases, encouraging them instead to buy in advance so the Swiss army knives can be packed in luggage to avoid confiscation by airport security. Hundreds of knives have been seized at Geneva's airport alone, its spokesman said.
Mr. Turner said Swiss Army Brands was planning to work with airline companies to see whether distributing notices at airport check-in would help draw people's attention to the necessity of packing or mailing Swiss army knives, rather than risking their seizure.
In addition, Victorinox is planning to roll out a new knife with a rounded edge -- "like a picnic spreader," explained Mr. Turner -- starting next month.
Wenger already has an alternative for sale, called a knife in a can. It is a vertical knife encased in a hard plastic tube topped by a small, round tin can that can be opened only with a can opener.
The price in Geneva is about $4.38 more than the regular $11.88 for a basic Swiss army knife. But they can be taken on board, Mrs. Loisel said, and are selling well.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wenger's "knife in a can" can be opened only with a can opener and can be carried onto planes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); RETAIL SALES (89%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (76%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; KNIVES; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; SALES 

COMPANY: VICTORINOX SWISS ARMY INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: VICTORINOX; SWISS ARMY BRANDS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423940 JEWELRY, WATCH, PRECIOUS STONE & PRECIOUS METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3421 CUTLERY (58%)

PERSON: ;OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); GERMANY (50%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



678 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel; 
A onetime top executive says airline security has often been secondary to not ruffling customers.

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
'THE airline industry today has less leadership than the Taliban," scoffed Michael Boyd, the aviation industry consultant. 
 Mr. Boyd, the president of the Boyd Group in Colorado, is among the critics in the airline industry who regard the current state of airline security as a sad joke. His weekly analyses and commentaries on the industry -- available on his firm's Web site at www.aviationplanning .com -- always provide provocative reading. 
 But for more of an industry insider viewpoint on the subject, I spoke last week with Robert Crandall, the retired chief executive of American Airlines, a man who is regarded as one of the architects of the modern commercial aviation system. 
So far, most of the public talk about baggage matching and other innovations in airport security has ignored the elephant in the room: the general agreement among industry executives and security experts about the necessity for some form of passenger profiling. 
Mr. Boyd says that is because the industry lacks leadership. Mr. Crandall, who has been through his share of political storms, puts it another way.
"Let me tell you a story," he said, recalling an incident from his time running American Airlines. "Many years ago, I went to Washington and testified in favor of a bill that Senator Kennedy was promoting to require employers to provide health care insurance. Now, this is something I believe in. If I was the King of Spain, every employer, large and small, would have to provide health care coverage. But after I testified, I must have gotten 25,000 letters from small-business people all over the country, basically saying, 'I'm never going to ride on American Airlines again because you're a radical and a socialist communist rat.' " 
The moral? "Stay out of politics" when you're running an airline, Mr. Crandall said.
He added: "The guys who are running the airlines now are running retail businesses in a heavily regulated industry. And they don't want to make anybody mad."
People are angry nevertheless, and the airlines are taking much of the blame anyway.
In the months after Sept. 11, business travelers, who fly the most, have been among the most vocal critics of the delays and other difficulties frequently encountered at crowded airport security checkpoints. There, friskings are common, carry-on bags are often minutely inspected and carelessly pushed to a heap that piles up at the end of security belts, leaving possessions askew or subject to theft.
Domestic airlines, which are expected to report losses of as much as $8 billion for 2001, are deeply concerned about surveys showing that some of their best customers, frequent business travelers, have cut back on travel because of perceptions of harassment and delays at airport security. 
Even well-known politicians have been frisked. Former Vice President Dan Quayle, for one, has complained about being rudely subjected to unnecessarily intense searching at airport security. Two weeks ago, a 75-year-old congressman, John Dingell of Michigan, was led into an airport security room and strip-searched after steel pins in his artificial hip set off a metal detector.
Critics in the industry and among passenger advocacy groups have, meanwhile, called much of this most intensive security "window dressing" that does nothing to address the most demonstrable threat, which is that an agent or agents connected to Islamic terrorist groups will again commandeer or destroy an airplane in an attack against the United States. 
Profiling passengers for their potential as threats is done routinely at foreign airports. Why not here? Mr. Crandall asked, echoing a sentiment that is widely held, but not publicly discussed, by most top airline executives. 
"We have simply got to bear in mind that the world has to be divided into those who represent real risk and those who are not a risk," he said. High on the list of nonrisk passengers, he said, are frequent business travelers.
"Those people we need to give a quick once-over, but the intensive security needs to be focused on people who actually represent a risk. And in order to do that we need to set aside this nonsense of being unwilling to profile. You have to profile," he said.
He added: "I don't care if the word is emotionally or politically loaded. I think we need to be talking about a combination of ethnic profiling and behavioral profiling, but principally behavioral profiling. That is, how do people behave? How do they buy their tickets? When do they get to the airport? 
"There are many factors. If you take people who buy tickets for cash; who fly just one way; who show up for a three-week trip with only one piece of hand baggage -- these are among the clues to look for. But some of the clues may additionally be ethnic." 
He also cited travel patterns. "If I was confronted with a passport of a person who had traveled three times to a hostile state in the last 12 months, I would want to give that person a very attentive security review, whether they were an Arab, an Israeli, an American or whatever." 
As do many security experts, Mr. Crandall says he believes that El Al, the Israeli airline, has already invented the model for the best airport security. That system, besides including intense screening of baggage for bombs and other weapons, is based on having a professional work force of well-trained security personnel, some of whom have the expertise to closely question passengers who are singled out for additional inspection through profiling. 
"You can't fail to provide appropriate security for the bags and the cargo that's going into the belly of the plane, and you can't fail to look carefully at everybody's handbags," Mr. Crandall said. "But what we're doing now, selecting people at random for pat-down searches, picking out congressmen and 80-year-old women, that's just foolishness. We're talking about lives here. We're talking about the survival and prosperity of the U.S. economy."
It is time to get the discussion going publicly, he said. "It's considered politically incorrect, of course, and most of the people who are involved in the dialogue so far are politicians who don't want to say that 'yes, it is perfectly appropriate in the interest of public safety to focus on those who represent the most risk,' " Mr. Crandall said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); AVIATION SECURITY (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POLITICS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); TALIBAN (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (64%); TERRORISM (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; AIRPORTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (51%) CRANDALL, ROBERT; SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



679 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Unaccountable in Washington 

BYLINE:  By Michael H. Granof and Stephen A. Zeff; Michael H. Granof is a professor of accounting at the University of Texas at Austin. Stephen A. Zeff is a professor of accounting at Rice University.

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex. 

 BODY:
The first of at least 11 Congressional hearings into the largest corporate bankruptcy in United States history begins tomorrow. Although Enron's executives and accountants have much to answer for, they can be forgiven for cracking a wry smile when members of Congress begin lecturing them on their dereliction of duty: Congress itself, as much as Enron and Arthur Andersen, bears some responsibility for the current state of affairs.
 The story begins in the 1970's and 1980's, when members of Congress, most from oil-producing states, pressured the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission not to demand tougher standards for financial reporting in the petroleum industry. At the time, it was clear that the lawmakers were serving corporate interests, not those of investors. Now it's clear that this was only a warm-up act. 
 While the F.A.S.B. is a private organization financed by industry, the board's authority comes from the S.E.C. requirement that corporations follow the standards it sets. If Congress is unhappy with an F.A.S.B. standard, it can pass a law directing the S.E.C. to ignore it.
From 1991 to 1994, members of Congress prevented the F.A.S.B. from issuing a standard that would have forced companies to take a charge against earnings when they issue employee stock options. Congress persisted in this course of action even though investors like Warren Buffett and the S.E.C. itself supported the F.A.S.B.'s initiative, saying options should be counted as an expense on earnings statements in the same way other forms of compensation are.
The driving forces behind the Congressional opposition were major industrial corporations and special-interest groups representing small, high-tech companies. If companies counted options as compensation, they argued, earnings would decline and stock prices would suffer. Members of both houses called for hearings and introduced bills that would have hamstrung the F.A.S.B. in its attempt to bring clarity to this important issue. In fact, in 1994, 88 members of the Senate voted for a "sense of the Senate" resolution in which they informed the F.A.S.B. that its proposed standard would have "grave economic consequences" for entrepreneurial ventures.
At one point in the debate, Senator Joseph Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut and now chairman of the committee that will convene tomorrow's first hearing, introduced a bill that would have effectively destroyed the F.A.S.B.'s authority to set standards for financial reporting. The bill, proposed as an amendment to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, would have required the S.E.C. to vote on every statement issued by the board. In the face of this proposed legislation, the F.A.S.B. had no choice but to drop its proposal to amend the way options are accounted for.
In the 1997-1998 session, the F.A.S.B. tried to rewrite the rules affecting derivatives, financial devices whose worth is determined by the value of another entity, whether it be government bonds, pork bellies or, as was the case with some of Enron's derivatives, the price of natural gas. Derivatives are complicated and risky, and the F.A.S.B. in its new rules sought to ensure that corporate financial statements accurately reflected those risks. This time, in the face of opposition from members of both parties in Congress, the F.A.S.B. was able to withstand the pressure. It issued its new standards in 1998.
But adversity quickly followed this minor success. In the 1999-2000 session, members of Congress once again intervened, this time to place barriers in the path of proposed standards on mergers and acquisitions and the way corporations involved in them account for the value of intangible assets like good will. The F.A.S.B. had wanted to change the way companies account for some costs in such deals, forcing them to write them off over a shorter period of time. Companies opposed the change, saying the increased costs would reduce their earnings, and lobbied Congress against the change. In the face of such opposition, once again the F.A.S.B. was required to make a strategic retreat.
Yet the true cost of all this Congressional meddling is even greater than the sum of its parts. Taken collectively, these proposed standards would have merely tweaked the existing accounting model. What is necessary is a comprehensive overhaul of the model itself. The model was designed for the industrial era. It worked fine when plants, equipment, inventories, accounts receivable -- stuff you could see and touch -- were what made a company tick. It fails miserably when the critical resources of a firm are software, intellectual capital, brand names and fiscal wizardry.
Few accountants will deny that the F.A.S.B. was unable to close accounting loopholes as rapidly as Enron and Andersen created them. And few will deny that fast and loose reporting practices are all too common in the corporate world.
Yet Congress has not allowed even a modest tweaking. Imagine, then, the outcry if the F.A.S.B. actually got serious about true reform of the current accounting model. Among the changes it might propose are restoring to the balance sheet many liabilities, like certain kinds of leases, that are now considered "off balance sheet"; adjusting reported earnings for changes in current prices of assets; and recognizing and amortizing the many intangible assets that are currently not even seen on balance sheets.
Each of these changes could have helped regulators and investors see the Enron-Andersen debacle coming, or even helped to prevent it. By sending a message that such changes are not remotely welcome or politically possible, Congress paved the way for the current crisis. Congressional involvement in financial standard-setting has been pure politics, fueled by a system of campaign financing that distorts the pursuit of the nation's legislative agenda. If members of Congress are sincere about identifying and correcting weaknesses in the standards used for financial reporting, then they should investigate the old-fashioned way: follow the money. They are likely to find a trail that leads to the nearest mirror.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Milan Trenc) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); US SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); STOCK OPTIONS (70%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (70%) BANKRUPTCIES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS BOARD (57%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%) GRANOF, MICHAEL H (PROF); ZEFF, STEPHEN A (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



680 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Kingston Mourns Loss of Mayor Who Breathed Life Into City 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU 

 BODY:
In life, Mayor T. R. Gallo of Kingston, N.Y., had decided to put his office in the grand old City Hall, a renovated Victorian building that came to symbolize his tireless efforts to rebuild the fortunes of this struggling Hudson Valley city. The building had been abandoned in the 1970's and largely forgotten until the mayor campaigned for its restoration.
 So in death, it seems somehow fitting that Mayor Gallo will be laid in state Thursday inside City Hall, amid the marble staircases and wrought-iron details that bear witness to his legacy. Already, black and purple bunting has been draped over the front entrance, and a flag lowered to half-staff. 
 The popular three-term Democratic mayor was found dead at his home Monday evening, apparently of natural causes, though Kingston police officials said that autopsy results would not be released until later this week. He was 41.
"It's a devastating loss," said Jim Sottile, the president of the Kingston Common Council, who was sworn in as the mayor on Monday night. "The city is surely going to miss T. R. He was a visionary."
For nearly a decade, the youthful mayor (his initials stand for Thomas Robert) had come to personify the resurgence of this city of 24,000 about 50 miles south of Albany. A Kingston native, he was first elected mayor in 1993 at age 33, presumably to be the city's last mayor before it hired a city manager. He immediately set out to impress his constituents by riding snowplows at 5 a.m. and blacktopping the streets alongside city workers, and Kingston's residents changed their minds about wanting a city manager and re-elected Mr. Gallo in 1995 with 85 percent of the vote.
With typical showmanship, he later turned a local Fourth of July celebration into a three-day event that featured nationally known bands like Jefferson Starship and Three Dog Night and drew more than 30,000 revelers.
He also led efforts to build an industrial park in Kingston, and to convert an abandoned school building into subsidized housing for senior citizens. A tireless promoter of the city, he also brought in more than $32 million in federal and state money for various development projects during his tenure, city officials said.
"I think he set a tone and pace for the city that hadn't been seen for a while," said Stephen M. Finkle, the city's director of economic development. "His shoes are going to be hard to fill -- I mean, they can't be filled."
Karen Clark-Adin, a local gift shop owner who is president of the Kingston Uptown Business Association, said that Mayor Gallo had restored a sense of pride to Kingston. "He was the quintessential hometown mayor," she said.
In recent years, though, some Kingston residents had complained that the mayor grew out of touch with the struggles of business owners and bullheaded with his successes. A few pointed out that his showmanship often overshadowed more serious problems in the city.
But even the mayor's critics were impressed by his success in restoring City Hall to its Victorian grandeur. After languishing for decades, the building was meticulously renovated and reopened in May 2000 as the seat of city government. Mayor Gallo himself often gave tours to visiting school children. 
In Kingston today, many residents expressed shock and sadness over the mayor's sudden passing. "There seems to be a gloom hanging over everything," said Jennifer Smith, a cashier at Catskill Art and Office Supply.
At the Ulster Performing Arts Center, people fondly remembered a mayor who had helped to transform the formerly dilapidated vaudeville theater into a cultural anchor for the downtown. The marquee today read: "T. R. Gallo Rest in Peace."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor T. R. Gallo of Kingston, N.Y., who was found dead at home Monday, at the restored City Hall in 1999. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) Map of New York shows the location of Kingston: Mayor Gallo worked to promote Kingston, a struggling city.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); DEATHS (76%); WITNESSES (75%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); AUTOPSIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (60%); SENIOR CITIZENS (58%) MAYORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE; GALLO, T R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) KINGSTON (NY)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



681 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS; 
Let Education Guide Welfare

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein; E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
WE urge young people to get more education, arguing for example that women with college degrees earn 48 percent more than similar women with only high school diplomas.
 But such advice did not guide the 1996 federal welfare reform. With a time limit of five years for receiving benefits, the law says that only one of those years can be used for education. 
 As a result, many recipients looking immediately for work got jobs in the booming economy of the 1990's -- but these were often low-wage, dead-end jobs. Now, in a recession, the retail, restaurant and hotel industries that hired many welfare recipients are those with the most employment losses. Welfare recipients, the last hired, have been the first fired. 
In the long run, it might have been wiser for more recipients to improve their skills before going to work. With more education, they might have been able to keep jobs in bad times as well as good.
Community colleges can offer the education, but an associate degree takes at least two years, not one. Some of these colleges, however, have gone beyond the limits in federal law, taking advantage of more flexible state and local rules.
City College of San Francisco, for example, provides added support services to help single mothers stay in school. It benefits from California's use of state dollars, not federal ones, to allow welfare recipients to add an extra year of education to the one allowed by Congress. And then, when state time limits have also been reached, the college helps students apply for a local scholarship established for welfare recipients by the City of San Francisco.
Brandy Orge was a beneficiary. Neglected by her parents, Ms. Orge lived at friends' homes as a teenager, never enrolling in high school. An aunt and uncle eventually sent her to a program that prepares students for a diploma-equivalency exam.
In 1999, 24 years old and on welfare, Ms. Orge realized she needed a well-paying career to support her 3-year-old daughter more responsibly than she herself was reared. She met with a City College counselor who reviewed the vocational certificate and two-year academic programs available. Ms. Orge said she decided "there will always be a need for nurses."
The counselor guided her choice of classes, organized federal and state financial aid and sent Ms. Orge to a City College center that gives students on welfare help with child care, transportation, extra family and academic counseling, and even priority registration for classes.
Ms. Orge graduated last month, after three years at City College to earn both associate of science and registered nursing degrees. Because this exceeded education time limits under California's welfare law, she used a San Francisco city scholarship to finish her studies.
Tomie Craig, 27, was City College valedictorian when she got an associate of arts degree in June 2000. Ten years ago, pregnant with the first of two children, Ms. Craig had dropped out of high school and gone on welfare. She, too, passed a diploma-equivalency exam, and in 1998 was urged to get further education by a City College counselor she met through an organization of Head Start mothers.
Ms. Craig is now pursuing a bachelor's degree in business administration with a scholarship from Golden Gate University. She reached her education time limit last month and was cut from the welfare rolls (the payment attributable to her children continues), so Ms. Craig expects to finish her baccalaureate using a city scholarship to make up the loss in benefits.
In 1996, Congress was influenced by anecdotes and research showing that many welfare recipients did not make effective use of additional education and would be better off if they were disciplined immediately by regular work -- even if it was unskilled. But while Brandy Orge and Tomie Craig are not typical of all welfare mothers, there may be more like them than Congress believed.
The law is up for renewal this year, and some in Congress will try to raise the federal education cap to two years from one. They will also seek to raise a 30 percent cap on the number of recipients permitted to use even this limited educational option.
Certainly, caseworkers must judge if any particular recipient can benefit from school. And education can work in such cases only if states, counties, cities and community colleges together provide extra services and guidance to single mothers pursuing degrees or vocational certificates.
With national unemployment now up to 5.8 percent, the low-wage jobs on which welfare reform depended are less available. But the job shortage means there is little risk in testing whether some welfare recipients, and society, might benefit more than expected from the value of education, which we preach in other contexts.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); LODGING (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); HOTELS & MOTELS (55%) WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



682 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: A BUDGET FOR NEW YORK: STRATEGY; 
Plenty for Health Care But Less for Much Else

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Two very different outlooks sit side by side in the state budget that Gov. George E. Pataki proposed today, an uneasy pairing of rosiness and austerity.
 His budget contains a major increase in health care spending, almost $3 billion, and a wide range of smaller increases for economic development programs. But it holds flat or cuts nearly every other area of spending, including aid to schools and colleges, environmental protection, tuition assistance to poor college students, prisons and mental health programs. 
 Over all, the budget is not a blueprint for the kind of hardship the governor had hinted at for months when he warned of how dire the state's financial condition was, battered by recession and the Sept. 11 attacks. His $88.6 billion plan for the fiscal year starting April 1 raises spending by 4.7 percent overall, no small feat for a governor running for re-election during a downturn.
Mr. Pataki deserves credit for making that possible, with a powerful assist from the economic boom that ended last year. Unlike his predecessors, he salted away huge sums of money for a rainy day, so that weathering hard times would not mean deep, painful cuts across the board, as it did in previous recessions.
But the plan reflects a clear choice not only to shield health care from any cuts, but also to funnel much more money into it. "It's very uneven," said Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission. "He's obviously protecting some areas at the expense of others."
When asked why, Mr. Pataki said, "The health care system was very severely hurt."
Last week, the Legislature, at the governor's urging, approved a health care bill intended to pay for wage increases for hospital and nursing home workers, as demanded by their politically powerful union, 1199/S.E.I.U. It set in place much of the health care portion of the budget, about one-third of the total, before the Senate and Assembly knew what the other two-thirds would look like.
Today, legislators were grumbling about the more stringent parts of the governor's budget, although some of them had raised no objection or ignored fiscal monitors and other interest groups who warned last week that the generosity toward health care workers would mean cuts elsewhere.
In education, the governor proposed to keep aid to schools unchanged, but within that broad category are cuts to a number of specific items, like money for full-day kindergarten and paying urban teachers' salaries. Advocates of all stripes argue that when costs are constantly rising, the absence of an increase really means a cut -- in this case, fewer teachers, shabbier buildings, fewer books. Timothy G. Kremer, executive director of the New York State School Boards Association, said that just maintaining current school programs would require a $1 billion increase.
Mr. Pataki proposed level spending from the state's Environmental Protection Fund, but that money is supposed to cover new programs, so that existing ones like preserving wild lands, recycling and parks are all cut. Even health care would see cuts in a few areas, like the state's AIDS Institute, which would lose 12 percent of its budget.
Even so, many agreed that it could have been worse. The blow the state has taken is much more severe than is reflected in Mr. Pataki's spending proposals. The governor's office predicts a $2.5 billion drop in state tax collections in the next fiscal year, following a year in which they failed to keep up with inflation.
The budget reflects the governor's desire to survive the year with as little distress, for as few people, as possible. It holds out the prospect of getting him through his campaign for a third term without layoffs of state workers, without postponement of promised tax cuts, while still increasing spending over all.
To do that, he proposes to paper over much of the problem with heavy use of one-time revenues and a major increase in federal aid, as the state shifts many expenses onto federal spending, if it can, at least temporarily. 
In the fiscal year now drawing to a close, the state is spending more than $600 million of its reserves to balance its books, and Mr. Pataki wants to spend $1.5 billion from those reserves in the next year. He also proposes to tap into the state's unspent welfare allocations that have accumulated in federal accounts, taking more than $800 million for things like tuition assistance and tax credits for the poor.
The budget also anticipates more than $800 million from shifting Medicaid costs to Washington, although federal officials say that a large fraction of that is unlikely to materialize. It also raids various pots of money, like the Environmental Protection Fund, to the tune of almost $500 million.
Democrats note that most of those maneuvers cannot be repeated next year, that they are, in government parlance, the dreaded "one-shots" that Mr. Pataki has pledged to avoid. Andrew M. Cuomo, one of the Democrats running against him, called the budget "a gimmick wrapped in a one-shot inside an empty promise." The other Democratic candidate, H. Carl McCall, called it "a textbook case in fiscal failure."
Independent fiscal monitors argue that while they are concerned by some of the gimmickry in the budget, the use of reserves to get through a crisis does not bother them. "That's why you have reserves," Ms. Fortuna said.
Spending those reserves is for Mr. Pataki the payoff for seven years of putting money away. His critics say that some of that money should have been used to pay down the state's huge debt burden, or that any governor could have built up significant reserves during the boom of the 1990's. Still, no previous governor managed it in the last half-century.
"I insisted that we prepare ourselves for those dark times," Mr. Pataki said today, "and we did."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STATUS REPORT: Closing the Budget Gap"The $88.6 billion budget plan proposed by Gov. George E. Pataki for the 2002-03 fiscal year would rely heavily on tapping unspent reserve funds that have built up during the economic boom. Here are some ways the state plans to close the projected $5.1 billion budget gap. In Millions Spend part of the reserve: $1,507 Use accumulated surplus in federal welfare accounts, to replace state spending, for: State earned-income tax credit for the poor: $438Tuition assistance for low-income college students: 345Prekindergarten programs: 61Increase cigarette tax to $1.50 from $1.11 a pack: $251 Increase of federal Medicaid money, including: Request for increase in federal reimbursement rate: $366Impose a 6% tax on Medicaid nursing home bills: 288One-time adjustment in Medicaid formula called Upper Payment Limit: 121Ongoing adjustment in Upper Payment Limit: 55Other: 29Raiding leftovers in various pots of money (what Governor Pataki's office acknowledges as one-shot tactics): $490 (Source: Division of the Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); TERRORISM (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); NURSING HOMES (72%); TRENDS (72%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MENTAL HEALTH (56%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



683 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Hamburg Journal; 
'Judge Merciless' Thinks All Germany Needs Him

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany, Jan. 21 

 BODY:
Ronald Schill, known in the press as "Judge Merciless," came into office in this elegant and seamy city state on a tide of disgust with crime and immigration, shaking political assumptions. Now he is thinking about going national.
 Mr. Schill, who is locally notorious for his harsh judgments in court, came out of nowhere to win nearly 20 percent of the vote in Hamburg's state elections last September, helping to turn the flaccid Social Democrats out of office here after 44 years in power. 
 The showing was a record for a new party -- the Party for a Law and Order Offensive, known more commonly as the Schill party. Now Mr. Schill, 42, intends his party to run in state elections in April in Saxony Anhalt, in former East Germany, where he is getting around 20 percent in the opinion polls.
He is even considering a run in the federal elections in September, which could make or break the conservative Edmund Stoiber's challenge to the Social Democratic chancellor, Gerhard Schroder.
But only 85 days in office, Mr. Schill is already facing criticism that he is not delivering on his promises to push out Hamburg's drug addicts and dealers and flood its streets with 2,000 more policemen. A headline this week in Hamburger Morgenpost, a local tabloid, charged, "From Judge Merciless to Minister Planless."
Mr. Schill confronts the problem of any right-wing leader in Germany: his rise stirs anxiety linked to Germany's past. His manner is modest as he curves his 6 feet 5 inches into an office chair, but his message is clear: other politicians have undermined the police, treated crime as the fault of the society and not the individual, and allowed "unhindered immigration into Germany, especially of black Africans, people from the former Yugoslavia, Turkey and other Muslim countries, which led to imported unemployment and imported crime."
Hamburg, a cosmopolitan Hanseatic port and media hub, has long been "the crime capital of Germany," Mr. Schill says. Drug dealers infest the cavernous central railroad station and the city's parks. Muggings are about 10 times more common here than in Munich, the capital of Mr. Stoiber's low-crime state, Bavaria.
In 2001, theft rose by more than 19 percent and drug trafficking by 17 percent, according to official figures.
In Hamburg, too, one of the main cells of Al Qaeda terrorists who attacked New York and Washington last September planned and plotted, melting into the large immigrant Muslim community of the southern district of Harburg.
"The terrorists chose the right place to plot their crimes," Mr. Schill said.
It was fertile ground for Mr. Schill, whose election showing won him the post of state interior minister in a conservative-led coalition. The office legitimizes him and his politics, troubling the left and posing a distinct problem for the mainstream conservatives.
Mr. Stoiber is already trying to keep his distance from the political novice with the uncomfortable opinions that rattle Germany's European partners.
"I exclude partnership with such a party on the federal level," Mr. Stoiber said recently. "We don't need it."
But in a close election, Mr. Stoiber might need Mr. Schill, who for now is merely relishing the attention and saying he will see how he fares in the Saxony election before deciding on a national run. 
Then he gives a sort of wink and says that a "high-ranking member" of Mr. Stoiber's party has encouraged the judge to run, to help the southern, Catholic Mr. Stoiber with the skeptical Protestants in the north. He already criticizes Mr. Stoiber for "diluting his position on the issue of immigration and moving toward the center."
Germany's left, eager to see Mr. Schill out of politics just as swiftly as he entered it, is expressing the view that he has already broken his promises.
"Schill's making propaganda that he's solving the problems of ordinary people," said Michael Neumann, a Social Democratic member of Hamburg's Parliament. "But people are already asking where are his programs and ideas."
Mr. Schill counters that money is tight, that he has already put 280 new recruits into the police academy, increased training for police staff and brought in some Bavarian police officers on contract.
There have been other contretemps. A dealer who had swallowed plastic packets of cocaine died when the police administered a drug intended to force him to vomit up the evidence. The police have now been required to have two doctors present.
A Schill proposal to leave a prison on the grounds of a former Nazi concentration camp, Neuengamme, where 50,000 people died, created a big fuss. Mr. Schill argues that a new prison will cost $50 million, that the Social Democrats put the prison there originally after the war and that his own grandfather, a Communist, was killed in the camp in 1944.
"The prison should never have been built there," Mr. Schill said. "And the Social Democrats should have removed it long ago."
After protests from Jewish survivors of the camp, Mr. Schill agreed to dismantle the prison.
Mr. Schill's effort to rid the railway station of drug dealers had a setback, too. He wanted to bus them to the port, but the customs authorities who run the port refused to play along.
Still, the German train company, Deutsche Bahn, has had its own success. 
It set up big loudspeakers and started playing Vivaldi to improve the atmosphere. The constant repetition of "The Four Seasons," says the newspaper Hamburger Abendblatt, "has been an effective street sweeper, guaranteed to drive the most stubborn junkie crazy." To avoid Vivaldi, the paper said, many junkies and dealers have left the station of their own accord.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ronald Schill, a conservative judge known for his harsh rulings, was made the state interior minister in Hamburg after an impressive election showing. He has promised to push out Hamburg's drug addicts and dealers. A crack dealer, right, was arrested in the St. Georg area of the city. (Gunther Menn/Focus/Matrix); (R. Jatsch-Koesling/Action Press, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TERRORISM (84%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); REFUGEES (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (71%); LARCENY & THEFT (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: GERHARD SCHRODER (53%) SCHILL, RONALD (JUDGE); ERLANGER, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (95%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) SACHSEN-ANHALT, GERMANY (79%); BAVARIA, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%) GERMANY; HAMBURG (GERMANY)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



684 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Rowland Hints At Layoffs And Tax Rise On Cigarettes 

BYLINE:  By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Thanks to a slowing economy further weakened by last fall's terror attacks, even wealthy Connecticut will soon see its 10-year string of budget surpluses come to an end. And with that reality sinking in, Gov. John G. Rowland has begun preparing lawmakers and taxpayers for a return to 1980's-style spending cuts.
 For the first time since he took office seven years ago, Mr. Rowland has suggested that the state may have to lay off employees and raise its cigarette tax. 
 On Monday, sounding a grim budgetary knell just two weeks before the start of what will most likely be a contentious 2002 legislative session, Mr. Rowland announced his plan to save, not spend as previously envisioned, some $157 million remaining from last year's state budget surplus. Instead of using the money to expand highways, build schools and increase mental health services, Mr. Rowland said, it is more necessary to close what his administration estimates to be a $350 million budget deficit that could further widen before the end of the current fiscal year, on June 30. 
The cuts are a small fraction of the state's $13 billion budget for 2002, although in fiscal 2003 the deficit is expected to reach $600 million or more.
Democratic leaders who control both houses of the state's General Assembly ridiculed the governor's plan as unnecessary in light of federal money, among other sources, that Connecticut could use to close the shortfall. 
If the lawmakers do not agree to forgo spending the remaining surplus, Mr. Rowland, a two-term Republican who may seek re-election in November, said Connecticut might need to dip into, if not liquidate entirely, its $600 million Rainy Day Fund, which the state has left untouched since he took office in 1995. 
"We've had a great seven-year run, but this year the money is not here," Mr. Rowland said during a news conference at the Capitol. He said this year's legislative session, which begins Feb. 6, "is going to be about one thing: holding the line on spending."
But it almost assuredly will also be about battling with Democrats over the size and scope of Connecticut's new fiscal austerity plan. 
The state ended fiscal 2001, on June 30, with roughly $600 million left over. Though using the surplus to pay down the current fiscal 2002 deficit was always an option, most lawmakers believed it would not be necessary. In a special session in November, the State Legislature and Mr. Rowland agreed to cut about $200 million from the current year's budget.
But Connecticut's shortfall has since grown, to $350 million from $101 million in November, according to the governor's budget secretary, Marc S. Ryan, who cited declining capital gains for the widening deficit. 
Among the changes Mr. Rowland acknowledged may be necessary in fiscal 2003 is an increase in Connecticut's 50-cent-per-pack cigarette tax. If enacted, the tax -- which now is much lower than New Jersey's (80 cents) or New York State's ($1.50 as of April 1) -- would mark the first significant tax increase in Mr. Rowland's time as governor. 
He also gingerly raised the specter of state job cuts, but only as a last resort. "Nobody wants to be the bearer of bad news, but these are the realities we are facing," Mr. Rowland said. 
He did summarily reject one potential revenue source for next year: toll booths, the last of which was removed more than a decade ago.
Legislative Democrats agreed on the need for belt-tightening but criticized Mr. Rowland's call to hold off spending last year's $157 reserve as unnecessary and alarmist.
"The question here is whether this is the fiscal collapse of the state of Connecticut or a modest revenue downturn due to a modest recession followed by a modest recovery," said the state Senate president pro tem, Kevin B. Sullivan, a Democrat. 
Mocking Mr. Rowland's cuts to mental health and other programs, he added, "No family faced with a few months of tough finances would react by pulling the kids out of school, not going to the doctor, selling the family car and passing the bills to the neighbors." 
Instead, Mr. Sullivan and other Democrats suggested more precisely focused cuts, and said a possible infusion of $50 million in federal aid for fiscal 2003 could close a deficit better than wholesale elimination of programs. 
Democratic lawmakers and the state attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, have also criticized Mr. Rowland for using most of the money Connecticut has received from the multistate settlement with tobacco companies to balance the budget instead of paying for antismoking campaigns. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); LAYOFFS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (75%); TERRORISM (73%); LIQUIDATIONS (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MENTAL HEALTH (53%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (53%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (53%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: ZIELBAUER, PAUL; ROWLAND, JOHN G (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



685 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 799 words

PERSON: Jack Shea 

HEADLINE: Jack Shea, 91; Won 2 Olympic Golds in '32 

BYLINE:  By FRANK LITSKY with LENA WILLIAMS 

 BODY:
Jack Shea, who won two gold medals in speedskating at the 1932 Lake Placid Olympics and was the United States' oldest Winter Games gold medalist, died yesterday in Saranac Lake, N.Y., of injuries incurred Monday in an auto accident. He was 91.
 Shea's death came one month after his grandson Jim Shea Jr. earned a spot on the United States Olympic skeleton team, making the Sheas the first family with three generations of Olympians. Jim Sr., 63, competed in three skiing events at the 1964 Winter Games in Innsbruck, Austria. 
 The state police said a van driven by Herbert J. Reynolds, 36, of Saranac Lake slid out of control on a snow-covered road and struck an auto driven by Shea head-on. Reynolds, who was treated for a cut lip, was arrested on charges including driving while intoxicated and was released to await a court appearance on Feb. 4.
Shea grew up in Lake Placid, N.Y., a village in the Adirondack Mountains. His home faced Mirror Lake, and at 3 he started skating there. While still in high school, he won the North American men's championship in 1929 and 1930.
Despite the worldwide economic depression, 17 nations entered the 1932 Winter Games. Shea, then a 21-year-old Dartmouth sophomore, took the Olympic oath on behalf of all the athletes.
Later that day, in the first final of the Olympics, Shea, wearing a red beret, won the 500-meter speedskating gold medal. The next day, he won the 1,500.
After his victories, Shea called the 500-meter final the highlight of his career.
"I wanted so much to see that flag go up first on the pole," he said of winning the 500 meters. "I was more nervous before the start of that race than I ever had been before. But when I won and the American flag did rise to the top, I was so satisfied that when I won the 1,500-meter championship, it was just another race to me. The first one was the one I wanted most."
After the Olympics, when Shea returned to Dartmouth, more than 500 people greeted him in an outdoor celebration in cold so bitter that band members could not play their instruments. His classmates were elated by his achievements, but he said the college administration did not care.
"They didn't appreciate what I was doing," Shea told The New York Times in an interview in 2000. "They finally excused me from classes, but they held me responsible for all the work that went on when I was away. So I spent half the time at the Olympics studying and half the time training, but it worked out very well."
Despite urging by American Olympic officials, Shea refused to skate in the 1936 Winter Games in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
"I majored in political science," he said, "and I knew what was going on in Germany and I didn't like it. And I didn't compete again because in those days, 25 or 26 years of age was over the hill, and I had four kids then."
In 1934, Shea married Elizabeth Stearns of Saranac Lake. He is survived by his wife; three sons, Jack of Elmhurst, Ill., and Jim and Michael of Lake Placid; and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
Jim Shea Sr. competed in Nordic combined skiing and two cross-country ski races in the 1964 Winter Olympics and coached the United States biathlon team in the 1972 Winter Olympics. His son, Jim Jr., won the 1999 world championship in skeleton, a sport for one-man sleds.
John Amos Shea was born Sept. 7, 1910, in Lake Placid. His father, James, was a state assemblyman. After graduating from Dartmouth, Jack Shea attended Albany Law School for a year. But money was scarce, and he left law school to support his family. First, he was a letter carrier. Then he ran the family's gourmet market and was the golf secretary at the Lake Placid Club.
From 1958 to 1974, he was the town justice, and from 1974 to his retirement in 1983 he was the supervisor of North Elba, the township that included the village of Lake Placid. He then became vice chairman of the Olympic Regional Development Authority, a New York State organization that took over the sites for Lake Placid's 1980 Winter Olympics.
He was a familiar figure at Lake Placid, walking around the ice rink or strolling around Mirror Lake in his 1932 Olympic team jacket. He skated recreationally until 1994.
His grandson's achievement in making the Salt Lake City Games thrust him back into the spotlight, and the three Sheas appeared together in a television commercial. Jack Shea was to have been honored at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics next month.
Three weeks ago, when the Olympic torch came through Lake Placid, Shea carried it into the Olympic speedskating oval where he won his gold medals.
"Jack Shea was an important father figure for this community," Mayor Roby Politi of Lake Placid said. "He was a kind of curator of the Olympic spirit that this community has been engulfed with over the years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Shea in 1932. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER SPORTS (93%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); OLYMPICS (92%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); ICE SKATING (91%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); DEATHS (90%); SKIING (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (72%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (72%); GRANDCHILDREN (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); MOUNTAINS (70%); POLICE FORCES (70%); ARRESTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (51%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; OLYMPIC GAMES; OLYMPIC GAMES (1932); ICE SKATING; SPEED SKATING 

SHEA, JACK; LITSKY, FRANK; WILLIAMS, LENA 

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (71%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); AUSTRIA (57%)

CATEGORY: Sports 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



686 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: The Governor's 'Monsoon' Budget 

 BODY:
Gov. George Pataki unveiled an $88 billion financial plan for next year that would close a huge gap with a breathtaking array of fiscal gimmicks. It relies on more than $3 billion siphoned away from reserve funds, some of them nearly unknown to people outside the tiny circle of state budget experts. Mr. Pataki is running for re-election this year, and if he is hoping that voters will not understand what he's doing to make the numbers add up, he is probably right. Even in New York, a state famous for the incomprehensibility of its fiscal planning, this budget would have to win a special award for opaqueness. 
 Normally, there would be a sound financial reason for attacking almost everything Mr. Pataki is trying to do. But this is not a normal year. The basic principle upon which he says the budget rests is that this is the time to raid various "rainy day" funds. In the combination of the recession and Sept. 11, he declared, "We didn't get a rainy day but we got a monsoon." He was making a legitimate point. Some of his ideas seem defensible. New York is suffering, in part, because its chief city was the victim of a terrorist attack that was none of its own doing. If the governor has to rely on gimmicks to get through this crisis, no one in the state, or in the bond markets, is likely to blame him. 
 But it is important to make sure Mr. Pataki doesn't go overboard. The state's budget gap is not entirely a result of Sept. 11, or even the recession. Like Washington, New York passed a long string of tax cuts to take effect in the future. Now they are coming due, and next year the new loss of revenue will amount to more than $300 million.
Mr. Pataki is also relying on a lot of "one-shot" revenues to pay for ongoing expenses. The financial markets, which have long been dubious about New York's commitment to responsible budgeting, are not going to be impressed with the fact that the state wants to raid its mortgage fund to pay its current bills. The budget also calls for tapping into nearly $1 billion in federal funds set aside for welfare recipients. At a time when welfare rolls seem likely to grow, and some longtime recipients who lose federal benefits are going to become the state's responsibility, this seems risky.
Mr. Pataki proposed cutting the rate of growth for several school aid programs, drawing criticism from Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, a Democrat. But the governor came up with a highly unusual proposal that appears to be aimed at helping New York City provide salary hikes for its teachers. The state has long owed the city more than $400 million in a complicated fight about reimbursements. The governor now wants to borrow that $400 million and send it to the city over the next two years. Although no one said so yesterday, the implications are that Mayor Michael Bloomberg and the Board of Education could use the money to settle the long-simmering teacher contract negotiations. That would put the city in the position of committing to permanent salary hikes and paying for them with money that will never return. It was an irresponsible idea when Mr. Pataki did it last week, in a similar arrangement, to increase the pay of health care workers. No matter how much the teachers -- or the health care workers -- deserve more pay, it is still irresponsible today.
Really serious budget crises seem to hit New York State every generation or so. In the 1970's, Gov. Hugh Carey famously highlighted his spending cuts by declaring that "the days of wine and roses are over." There is some spending restraint in this budget, with thousands of jobs being eliminated in state government. But that is a pittance compared with what many thought would be proposed. This is a budget that postpones the end of the days of wine and roses by finding more reserve funds, it seems, than there are caves in Afghanistan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (84%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); BONDS (66%); BOND MARKETS (64%); TAX LAW (63%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



687 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: GROUND ZERO: SMALL BUSINESS; 
Survey Calls Loss of Jobs Big Problem For Retailers

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
The disappearance of 100,000 jobs from Lower Manhattan as a result of the attack on the World Trade Center is the key reason that most stores and restaurants in the area are struggling to survive, according to a survey conducted earlier this month by a downtown business group.
 For businesses that reopened but found their corporate and individual customers had vanished, the findings suggest that efforts to attract and retain commercial tenants in the neighborhood should be a top priority, said Carl Weisbrod, the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, the group that conducted the survey. 
 "The most important thing is expanding the client base," he said. "We can't get all 100,000 jobs back immediately, but we have an opportunity to get tens of thousands back." 
The survey results, though unsurprising, represent the first attempt to document the hardship experienced by merchants in a wide swath of Lower Manhattan that includes TriBeCa as well as the area below Chambers Street. The door-to-door survey covered 861 stores and restaurants -- about 75 percent of the area's retail establishments, the alliance said.
As might be expected, the worst hardships were experienced by retailers west of Broadway and north of Liberty Street, the area closest to the World Trade Center. Of those, 88 percent reported a "severe decrease" in business during the last quarter. In the area as a whole, 62 percent of the retailers characterized their losses as severe.
About half the retailers said fourth-quarter sales volume was down 20 percent to 50 percent over the same period in 2000, while 27 percent said their sales volume had decreased 51 percent to 80 percent.
The retailers cited a variety of reasons for the decline, including blocked streets, negative perceptions about the condition of downtown, changes in customers' transportation patterns, the presence of street vendors in front of their stores and the loss of residential customers who had moved out of the area.
But 76 percent cited the loss of corporate clients as a significant factor in their sales losses.
"The bread and butter are the corporate clients," said Moshe Hacohen, an owner of Flowers of the World, a florist that has been on Hanover Square for 15 years and also had a shop in the World Trade Center. Mr. Hacohen estimated that business at his Hanover Square store is down 30 percent.
Mr. Hacohen said he is no longer hopeful that he can open another store downtown to replace the one at the World Trade Center. So far, the only help he has received was a $16,000 state grant. He did not apply for a small business loan, in part because of the requirement that personal property be used as collateral. 
And like many downtown business owners, Mr. Hacohen said, he has yet to collect any insurance for his losses. According to the survey, only five percent of the retailers have received full payment for insurance claims, and 14 percent have received partial payments.
The alliance's report paints a gloomy picture, saying that most retailers are pessimistic about the current quarter. But Mr. Weisbrod said business might improve now that the Statue of Liberty is once again open to tourists and because local transportation has been steadily improving. Century 21, the popular discount store, is expected to reopen at the end of February.
The survey's accuracy was challenged by the management of the South Street Seaport. The survey said that 69 percent of the merchants reported a severe decrease in business in the fourth quarter, and 28 percent a modest decline. Paul Harnett, a vice president and general manager of the shopping center, said that according to sales reports filed with his office, 33 percent of the 100 stores at the seaport showed a slight increase in sales over last year.
A spokeswoman for the Alliance said the group stood by its research.
Of the retailers canvassed by the alliance, those south of Liberty Street and East of Broadway -- the area closest to the New York Stock Exchange -- fared best. Marvin Rafeld, the owner of 14 Wall Street Jewelers, said that business began returning to near-normal levels in November. But he remains concerned about the future.
"As aggressive as the government is being -- and there has been a lot of attention and a lot of government assistance," he said, "unfortunately that is not enough. People must be encouraged to return to the area."
There does not appear to be a shortage of office space. The area below Canal Street has about 8.3 million square feet of available office space, according to the real estate company Cushman & Wakefield. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); RESTAURANTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); LAYOFFS (86%); LOWERED SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FLORISTS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); TRENDS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (68%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (62%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (60%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PUBLIC OPINION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE FOR DOWNTOWN NEW YORK 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



688 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: A BUDGET FOR NEW YORK: OVERVIEW; 
Pataki's Budget Would Close $5 Billion Gap

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
With a recession driving down tax collections, Gov. George E. Pataki proposed an $88.6 billion budget today that avoids deep cuts to most agencies largely by spending the state's reserve funds and coaxing more money from Washington.
 The Republican governor, who is preparing to run for a third term this year, said the confluence of terrorist attacks on Sept. 11 and the recession had devastated tax revenues, opening a $5.1 billion shortfall in the budget for the next fiscal year, which begins April 1. 
 Yet Mr. Pataki vowed he would not put off any tax cuts scheduled to take effect this year and reasserted his creed that cutting taxes creates jobs. State aid for schools would remain frozen at this year's level and spending across most other agencies, many still struggling after last year's bare-bones budget, would remain flat under his plan. Only spending on health programs and economic development would rise slightly. 
The governor, who repeatedly congratulated himself for salting away money during the last seven years, said he would close the budget gap through a series of measures including spending those built-up reserves to bail out the government.
"We are using reserves that were set aside for a rainy day," the governor said. "We didn't get a rainy day, but we got a monsoon."
All told, spending would rise by $4 billion, or about 4.7 percent, but the part of the budget supported with state taxes and fees would grow only about 1.6 percent. The state is counting on about $3 billion in additional federal aid, some of which Congress may not approve.
The governor's plan offers little relief to New York City beyond the $10 billion in federal disaster aid Congress has already approved. The state would give the city an additional $273 million for welfare and Medicaid costs. The subway system, however, would receive $342 million in new funds to avoid a rise in fares. In addition, the city's school board would be given the authority to borrow about $200 million under a complex scheme in which the state would pay back the bonds.
In a speech outlining the plan, Mr. Pataki laid out the underpinnings of his re-election campaign. He vowed not to lay off state workers or raise taxes. He said he would devote $200 million to setting up a new office for state security and he announced a modest $50 million in seed money to spur economic development in upstate New York and on Long Island. He promised jobs, jobs and more jobs. He also took pains to portray New York as a state suffering economic hardship because of the terrorist attacks. He appealed to people's patriotism and asked for sacrifice.
Mr. Pataki said he would close the $5.1 billion gap by freezing hiring at state agencies, putting off growth in most of them, spending about $1.1 billion in various reserve funds, refinancing some debt and obtaining more in federal grants with some creative requests. The plan also hinges on skimming unspent balances off several special-purpose funds, among them the state mortgage agency and the Environmental Protection Fund, to get about $562 million for the state's operating expenses.
"It's a budget that calls for extraordinary measures to deal with extraordinary circumstances," Mr. Pataki said. "Either we control the crisis, or the crisis will control us."
But some of the more tricky maneuvers in the plan immediately drew fire from the Democrats who control the Assembly. For instance, Mr. Pataki is asking students who receive state scholarships to forgo a third of the money until after graduation, when they would be repaid with interest, but only if they graduate. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver said the idea was "the equivalent of requiring students to buy state bonds."
The governor's plan provides almost no extra money for schools, locking state aid at this year's $14 billion. But it would allow New York City's Board of Education and four other urban districts to borrow money equivalent to the amount the state owes them from past years, known as "prior year claims." Under the proposal, the state would pay the interest and principal on the bonds.
For the city's Board of Education, it would mean a infusion of $204 million in each of the next two years, money the Bloomberg administration desperately needs as it tries to reach a labor agreement with the city's powerful teachers union. 
Democrats complained Mr. Pataki did not keep all his promises to the schools. As he has in the past, he proposed simplifying the cumbersome school aid formulas, collapsing several streams of revenue into one block grant. He also proposed cutting money that would have reduced class sizes in the lower grades and that would have established all-day kindergarten statewide, programs he had previously pledged to support.
"This budget fails again to fulfill our commitment to the state's 4-year-olds," Mr. Silver said. "This is the second year in a row he has failed to live up to that promise."
Despite holding the line on spending in most agencies, the governor's plan would winnow the state's work force by about 4,850 jobs, to 194,500 people, by March 2003. Most of those jobs would be lost through attrition. In addition, about 1,500 state employees would be offered early retirement with a buyout. Nearly 600 jobs would be cut in the prison system, while the mental hospitals and clinics would lose about 400.
Mr. Pataki is also planning a piece of budgetary sleight-of-hand with the Environmental Protection Fund, which pays for parkland acquisition, recycling and other programs. He and the Legislature never appropriated the $125 million from the fund this year as he had originally planned, much to the dismay of many environmentalists.
Now the governor has asked the Legislature to appropriate $250 million for the next two months and all of the next budget year, but he then plans to take $100 million out to spend for other purposes. He also plans to use the fund to pay for some environmental programs now paid for with general tax revenues. He maintains that the fund collects enough money through a special tax of land sales to pay for the new costs, but some environmentalists are skeptical.
Mr. Pataki's spending plan also uses about $884 million in surplus welfare grants the state has built up over the last few years as more and more people have been moved off the welfare rolls.
The federal grants have built up in a Washington bank account and are supposed to be used for programs that help people get jobs, like day care for the working poor.
But the governor plans to spend $438 million from the fund to offset a tax cut for poor people with children, $345 million for scholarships, and $61 million for preschool programs. It remained unclear if the federal welfare authorities would object to those expenditures.
The use of the welfare-fund surplus is only one of several ways the governor is trying to maximize the money flowing from Washington to Albany. He is also proposing changes to Medicaid formulas and a tax on nursing home receipts that he contends the federal government will reimburse under Medicaid.
From a political standpoint, the budget seemed a relief to many lawmakers. Mr. Pataki had tried to compare the state's financial condition to the Great Depression. He said the state could lose as much as $9 billion in revenues in the next fiscal year.
As a result, the $5 billion budget gap -- which will be caused mostly by a drop of nearly $4 billion in personal income-tax collections -- looked good to many lawmakers. Few on either side of the aisle could take issue with closing the gap by squeezing more money from Washington or spending the total of $2.5 billion in reserves and one-time revenues.
"I'm still looking for the gloom and doom lots of people were forecasting," Senator Joseph L. Bruno said. "And I don't see it."
Mr. Bruno said he was not at all troubled by spending down the state's reserves or using up one-time windfalls, like the $880 million welfare surplus. Asked about the one-shot revenues, Mr. Bruno said: "Whatever they are, they are appropriate."
Some lawmakers worried that the governor's plan used up most of the surplus money to be had, leaving the legislative leaders little new revenues to pay for programs they preferred. "It's too early to tell where he left room for the Legislature to have its greatest impact on this budget," one high-ranking Assembly Democrat said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left: Gov. George E. Pataki, Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Minority Leader Martin Connor. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORISM (89%); MEDICAID (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); LAYOFFS (84%); APPROVALS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); JOB CREATION (74%); TRENDS (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); WEATHER (70%); AIRLINES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; TAXATION; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; WELFARE (US) 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



689 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Kmart Files Bankruptcy, Largest Ever For a Retailer 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM and LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
The Kmart Corporation filed for bankruptcy protection yesterday, the largest such filing ever made by a retailer.
 Speculation on Kmart's financial condition had been intensifying for weeks as the company faced a cash shortage that was accelerated by a slump in holiday sales and a failed price-cutting campaign. But Kmart's underlying problems had been mounting for some time as it lost ground to Wal-Mart, the nation's No. 1 retailer, and Target, the discount retailer known for its relatively fashionable merchandise. 
 Kmart, the nation's third-largest discount retailer, said yesterday that all 2,114 of its currently operating stores would remain open for now. But analysts say that several hundred stores will be closed after a corporate review is completed at the end of April, which could mean layoffs for thousands of the company's 240,000 workers. Kmart will also extricate itself from leases on some 350 stores that it has already closed or leased to other companies. 
Since its start in 1962, Kmart has become a fixture on the American landscape, known for its blue light specials, in-store announcements ("Attention, Kmart shoppers!") and the big red K's that adorn its storefronts.
Kmart's fall is bad news for an economy already stung by Enron, which made the largest bankruptcy filing in history less than two months ago, and ripples will be felt by creditors and suppliers. Yesterday, companies ranging from Eastman Kodak to Delta Galil Industries, a small Israeli underwear maker, said they had millions of dollars in payments outstanding.
Kmart's stock, which closed as high as $13.16 last August, fell another 60 percent yesterday, closing at 70 cents. This will be a blow to some workers, who as a group have about 14 percent of their 401(k) assets in Kmart stock. 
Charles C. Conaway, Kmart's chief executive, said in a statement that "after considering a wide range of alternatives, it became clear that this course of action was the only way to truly resolve the company's most challenging problems."
In filings with the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Northern District of Illinois, in Chicago, Kmart listed $16.29 billion in assets and $10.35 billion in debt. At the end of the financial quarter ended Oct. 31, Kmart had $366 million in cash.
The company has secured $2 billion to finance its continuing operations from a group of banks led by J. P. Morgan Chase, and it said it would emerge from bankruptcy protection sometime next year. Analysts, however, said the company had yet to develop a successful strategy to position itself against the other retail giants.
Wal-Mart has laid claim to the penny pinchers. Target has identified with style-conscious suburbanites by offering modish brands like kitchen utensils and teakettles designed by the architect Michael Graves. "It's not a natural gimme that there is room for Kmart," said Emme P. Kozloff, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. 
Eighteen months ago, when Mr. Conaway took Kmart's helm, he promised that a turnaround would be apparent in two years. Instead, tactics like trying to beat Wal-Mart on pricing and reducing advertising in circulars have not worked.
Kmart has long been known for its boom and bust cycles. The chain was started in 1962 as a discount division of the S. S. Kresge Company, a five-and-dime store that was F. W. Woolworth's chief competitor during the first part of the century. The vast stores were put outside cities in bustling new suburbs.
At first Kmart and the suburbs were a perfect match. The chain grew rapidly, and housewives reveled in its well-priced abundance. Within a decade, Kmart had 673 stores and rivaled Sears, Roebuck as the nation's largest retailer. But it was during this period of rapid expansion that Kmart grew complacent. In 1973, the company experimented with using computers that could track inventory and make orders. But store managers, who filled out orders by hand, rejected the computers, predicting, accurately, that the new technology would reduce their autonomy, according to "In Sam We Trust," a history of the rise of Wal-Mart (1998, Times Books). 
Kmart decided to pass on computers, but its competitors did not. Sam Walton put the systems in anywhere he could afford to, and the added efficiencies paid off over time. Today, as the world's largest retailer -- and one of its most efficient -- Wal-Mart does roughly fives times the business of Kmart, $200 billion in annual sales.
Over the years, Kmart failed to keep its stores looking fresh, and its fashions became dowdy. So ingrained in the public culture was Kmart as a purveyor of polyester that in the 1989 film "Rain Main," Dustin Hoffman's autistic character yells Kmart insults.
Kmart tried hard to fix its problems. In 1997, the company signed up Martha Stewart, then an emerging merchandising star. Last year, her company, Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, did $1.6 billion in sales through Kmart. Yesterday, Martha Stewart said she would continue with Kmart while it was in bankruptcy despite being owed roughly $13 million. 
Kmart has every intention of reviving itself, but the track record of smaller discounters that have run into trouble shows how difficult such changes can be. Montgomery Ward tried to come back after declaring bankruptcy in 1997 and even had the backing of General Electric, its parent, but it declared bankruptcy again at the end of 2000 and went out of business. Bradlees emerged from bankruptcy in 1999 only to file again the next year and go out of business.
Kmart's urban stores, including 10 in New York, are least likely to close because they generally have higher sales volumes and less competition from Wal-Mart and Target, consultants said. But elsewhere, the outlook is often bleak.
"In suburban and rural areas, Wal-Mart is pounding Kmart into the ground," said Burt Flickinger III, a retail consultant. "In those areas, Kmart stores will largely go dark."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sharon Josephson loaded her car at a Super Kmart in Madison Heights, Mich., yesterday. The retail chain, which filed for Chapter 11 reorganization, will keep its 2,114 currently operating stores open for now. (Associated Press)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); RETAILERS (91%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%) BANKRUPTCIES; FINANCES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; RENTING AND LEASING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (94%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (54%); DELTA GALIL INDUSTRIES LTD (54%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: KMART CORP 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); DELT (TASE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (94%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (94%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY; KAUFMAN, LESLIE; CONAWAY, CHARLES C 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (76%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



690 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: A Clubhouse Divided Over Taking In Guests; 
Century Members Debate Rentals

BYLINE:  By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
Is the venerable Century Association destined to become a bedroom community?
 A proposal to construct 15 guest bedrooms -- by tacking on an additional floor to the association's five-story Beaux-Arts building at 7 West 43rd Street -- has provoked heated debate among members of one of Manhattan's most prestigious clubs. 
 The Century's managers say that the room-rental plan would provide a much-needed new source of income and ensure the club's continued existence. But opponents of the proposal worry about the $6.5 million debt that the club would incur, as well as two years of construction disruption. Others fear that the presence of a hotelish operation in the protected universe of the Century would violate the tranquil camaraderie of the club's comfortable meritocracy. 
The Century counts some 2,400 members, many from New York's cultural, professional and political worlds. The 2001 membership directory lists Brooke Astor, Tina Brown, William F. Buckley Jr., Ric Burns, Chuck Close, Ellen V. Futter, Frank O. Gehry, Betsy Gotbaum, Philip Johnson, Henry A. Kissinger, Robert M. Morgenthau, Daniel Patrick Moynihan, David Rockefeller, Felix G. Rohatyn and Andy Rooney. 
For decades, Century members, who call themselves Centurions, have availed themselves of room-rental arrangements with clubs in other cities, but have not been able to reciprocate at the Century. Nevertheless, some of the club's members are operatic in their opposition, even though the practice is commonplace at many other clubs in Manhattan and around the world.
The most passionate naysayers have declined to state their case publicly, given club rules requiring that members take responsibility "for the exclusion from the clubhouse of reporters and news photographers on assignment." Members must also "prevent public mention of discussions or activities of any character," according to the rules, "and avoid assisting journalists who might do so." (This is not so easily accomplished, since so many journalists are club members, including editors and writers from The New York Times.) 
If the controversy over the so-called "bedrooms plan" would seem to be a tempest in a bone-china teapot -- as one 30-year member called it -- some at the Century are especially exercised over the very loss of the club's decorum. "I don't want a disagreement over the building of the bedrooms to make the club look frivolous," said John O'Keefe, a public-relations consultant and New York City Opera board member who has been a club member for three decades. "This club has a seriousness of purpose, and this issue will be resolved in a civilized way."
The core of the new dispute involves the club's survival. The bedroom proposal is important to the club's future solvency, according to a letter sent to members by Louis S. Auchincloss, the club's president, and J. Robert Moskin, the chairman of the club's house committee. 
The letter, obtained by The Times, warns that "meeting future cost increases will place severe demands on the level of dues, the size of the membership, and the number of private events in the clubhouse," adding, "None of these prospects is attractive."
The letter warns that the bedrooms must be built because club managers do not want to increase the membership substantially, raise dues from their current yearly level of $1,900 for local residents or witness "still more strangers partying here," a reference to the rental of the club spaces for weddings and other events. 
During a Jan. 8 membership meeting to discuss the bedroom plan, some questions were so skeptical that Mr. Auchincloss postponed a membership vote on the bedroom proposal that had been planned for the club's monthly meeting in February, according to one attendee. Since then, some members have been lobbying to vote down the notion. 
"We are waiting for another report to be done," Mr. Auchincloss said, "since there was concern about the financing. They need to know how to finance it in this difficult era." He was willing to speak on the record to a reporter, he said, "because I feel we are a landmark and the press is entitled to certain information." But he declined to discuss the specifics of the controversy.
On Jan. 14, Mr. Moskin began sending prepaid postcards to Century members in an informal, nonbinding and anonymous poll to determine how many favor the construction project and how many might actually use the rental rooms for themselves or their families. Ultimately, the club's board of managers alone "could implement such a decision," Mr. Auchincloss said, "but we would like to have everybody vote anyway."
The new report certainly has been well preceded. Last year an analysis by two Century club members, the structural engineer Robert Silman, and Byron Bell, the architect who oversaw the renovation of the club's stately 1891 Stanford White building a decade ago, concluded that "it is entirely feasible to add bedrooms," according to the letter by Mr. Auchincloss and Mr. Moskin, dated Nov. 26, 2001. Another analysis estimated that the construction cost would be $6.5 million, including furnishings. 
The club's board of management approved the house committee's recommendation that a total of 15 bedrooms with private bathrooms be built, adding a locker room for the women who work at the Century, as well as an administrative space. To do this, the club, which is near Fifth Avenue, would expand its fifth floor and add a sixth.
The expansion would depend on approval from the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission. "We are told that there would be no objection," Mr. Auchincloss said, "as long as the additional floor can't be viewed from the street."
The letter proposes that most of the $6.5 million construction cost be borrowed on a 15-year loan. 
The annual payments on a loan at 7.5 percent would amount to about $723,000, and the club would need to charge at least $190 per room per night at the city's current average 70 percent occupancy rate, according to Sean Hennessey, director of the hotel consulting business at the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers. 
"Generally the rooms available at such clubs are highly desirable and perform very well for them," said Mr. Hennessey, who is not a Century member and is not involved in the proposal. "The $190 price would compare very favorably to other hotels, given the exclusivity factor. And it could contribute to the profitability of other aspects of the club." 
The letter sent to members also tries to reassure them that annual dues will not be raised to add the bedrooms, and that no special assessment will be levied on the Centurions, who supported a $6 million budget in the fiscal year that ended last September. 
Nevertheless, many members are worrying that the plan will saddle the club with a sizable debt in uncertain economic times, in an era when graying members of many city clubs are aging out and the clubs themselves are fighting for relevance. "The vagaries of the hotel business are like the vagaries of construction projects," one longtime member said. "There is no guarantee that a high occupancy rate will repay the debt, nor that the construction project will come in on budget."
Some members also object to the construction disruption. The letter acknowledges that the work would be accomplished during two successive summers. The club would be closed for two months during the first year, and for six weeks during the second. But, the letter insists, "few club activities or events would be disrupted."
Yet some club members do not welcome the prospect of a profitable new attic. "Mr. Auchincloss is a man of exceptional taste, and I'm sure he's trying to do the best for the club," said Peter Duchin, the orchestra leader and member for two decades. "But my first objection is aesthetic. If Stanford White wanted to have bedrooms, he'd have put them there." 
Other demurrers object to the addition of a hotel reception and concierge operation in the club's classic lobby. Some members have also expressed fears that, after the project is completed, an influx of new room-renting strangers may alter the intimate character of the club. "I don't want to see someone's kids running through the bar," Mr. Duchin said with a laugh. 
The Century was formed in 1847 "for the purpose of promoting the advancement of art and literature." Mark Twain called it "the most unspeakably respectable club in the United States." Today members can still honor tradition by taking meals at the long table -- an oasis for unaccompanied club members -- and quaffing Silversmiths, rum drinks on shaved ice in silver cups.
The club has often embraced change exceedingly slowly, and, on occasion, messily. In 1988 women were admitted to the club amid debate that was positively bitter; some members resigned. And in 1990, angry words were exchanged over the association's sale of a prized 1847 painting, William Sidney Mount's "Power of Music," to pay for renovations. (The work was bought in 1991 by the Cleveland Museum of Art.) 
The current bedrooms plan has left many Centurions on the fence. "I'm agnostic on the subject," the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. said. "I haven't taken a position yet." 
Others express a fair amount of indifference. "They can put the beds in," the author Peter Quinn said, laughing, "just as long as I don't have to make them." 
Or, as the author Robert A. Caro put it, "I have devoted zero thought to this." 
In some respects, the conflict may be generational. "The older members want to keep things the way they are," Mr. Quinn said. "What a surprise." 
But when they speak about the Century, it is plain that many of the more senior members see the club as a sacred place, and subscribe to the if-it-ain't-broke-don't-fix-it theory. Yet Mr. Auchincloss remains optimistic. "It seems to me probable," he said, "that it will be worked out."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Plans to add a floor to the Century Club at 7 West 43rd Street may mean that the doors of the club, above, will admit guests who want to pay to sleep over. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B1); A painting by Charles Yardley Turner depicting a Saturday night in 1894 at the Century Club, then as now one of the city's most prestigious. (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (63%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (62%) ORGANIZATIONS, SOCIETIES AND CLUBS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTURY ASSN 

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (51%) COLLINS, GLENN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



691 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Plans to Eliminate Some State Jobs 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
In his most dramatic step yet to address New Jersey's looming budget problems, Gov. James E. McGreevey said today that he planned to send layoff notices to more than 600 state workers beginning Wednesday.
 Speaking to an audience of 350 at Montclair State University, Mr. McGreevey used the first town hall meeting of his week-old administration to unveil bleak news: despite a 5 percent cut in spending, the state budget crisis is so severe that he must reduce the size of its work force immediately to close the $2.8 billion deficit for the fiscal year ending June 30. 
 Although 600 nonunion middle management employees will receive the layoff notices, it is unclear how many jobs will actually be eliminated from the state payroll.
Some of the workers are holdovers from the previous administration who will be replaced, Mr. McGreevey said, while others can agree to be "bumped" to a different job classification.
"In the end, we expect a limited reduction in the size of the state work force," the governor said to reporters after the meeting. "This is part and parcel of the 5 percent reduction in state expenditures, which I intend to save $100 million."
The governor said it was unclear how much the state would save by cutting the jobs, or whether further rounds of layoffs were expected, but he said he would discuss some details of the plan Wednesday, when he is to speak before a group of local government leaders at a meeting of the League of Municipalities at the New Jersey State House.
"We are cutting state government across the board," the governor said. "Tomorrow, layoff notices will go out to upwards of 600 state employees, which is tough. I'll need the mayors and the school boards to understand fiscal responsibility and live within their means."
Since the day he was elected, Mr. McGreevey has warned that the state's budget gap will require severe reductions in the size of state government, and he has pledged to keep a campaign promise not to raise taxes.
Last Wednesday, his first full day in office, he ordered all commissioners to cut 5 percent from their budgets.
This morning he also ordered administrators of New Jersey's public colleges and universities to trim 5 percent from their operating budgets, saving the state $65 million but raising the possibility of tuition increases by next school year.
Mr. McGreevey said he was reluctant to trim the aid, and he pledged to meet with educators and school administrators to map a long-term strategy for higher education in New Jersey.
"I understand that it is the state that best educates her children that will be most competitive in the new economy," he said.
Administrators at several New Jersey colleges and universities said they hoped to take measures that would cut spending without curtailing educational programs. Francis L. Lawrence, the president of Rutgers University, said that there would be no tuition increase this year but that the school would stop hiring immediately.
Mr. McGreevey's plan to reduce the size of the state work force is the most specific cost-cutting plan he has released to date. But his persistent warnings about the deficit have come to dominate the state's political discussions. Many elected officials preparing to attend Wednesday's League of Municipalities meetings were bracing themselves for deep cuts in state aid.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey talking to Montclair residents yesterday in his first town meeting as governor. (Emile Wamsteker for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (88%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CITIES (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (76%); TUITION FEES (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); NEW ECONOMY (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



692 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: How Vulnerable Are Nuclear Plants? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Nuclear Reactors as Terrorist Targets" (editorial, Jan. 21):
 There is much more than enough radioactive material at the Indian Point nuclear power plant to require the permanent evacuation of a 50-mile radius around it, should the material be released into the atmosphere. 
 When one considers the dire consequences that visited the economy with the destruction of 16 acres of office space in Lower Manhattan, the result of losing every single bit of infrastructure, and every job, in the New York metropolitan area is too horrible to contemplate for long. 
But since that is the worst-case scenario with Indian Point, we must ask ourselves: Is the destruction of an entire metropolitan area, and probably the entire American economy, a risk worth taking?

MARYJANE SHIMSKY
Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
Jan. 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (93%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (93%); POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) ATOMIC ENERGY; TERRORISM; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

PERSON: SHIMSKY, MARYJANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



693 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Asia: North Korea: Energy Crisis 

BYLINE:  By Don Kirk (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The government said an acute power shortage had affected nearly every aspect of the economy and everyday life from factories to agriculture to drinking water to public lighting. The report by the Korea Central News Agency blamed years of natural disasters for the problem and held the United States responsible for delays in construction of two nuclear reactors intended to provide electricity under a 1994 accord in which North Korea agreed to freeze its nuclear weapons program. Don Kirk (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (88%); POWER FAILURES (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (86%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (85%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (82%); NATURAL DISASTERS (54%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (53%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ATOMIC WEAPONS; SHORTAGES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID 

PERSON: KIRK, DON 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (91%); ASIA (90%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



694 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 106 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing West: Hawaii: Final Spending Plans 

BYLINE:  By Michele Kayal (NYT) 

 BODY:
 In his eighth and final State of the State address, Gov. 
Benjamin J. Cayetano expressed optimism at Hawaii's economic progress since Sept. 11 and emphasized a need for greater spending on education. Mr. Cayetano asked the Legislature to appropriate $255 million for public school repairs and to release $142 million to build a permanent branch of the University of Hawaii on the western side of Oahu. He said he would balance the budget by using the Hawaii hurricane fund and raising the liquor tax. Officials expect a $100 million tax shortfall because the Sept. 11 attacks hurt the state's top industry, tourism. Michele Kayal (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); TERRORISM (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); HIJACKING (85%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (84%); TAXES & TAXATION (83%); TAX AUTHORITIES (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); HURRICANES (52%) STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (HAWAII); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%)

PERSON: KAYAL, MICHELE; CAYETANO, BENJAMIN (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) HAWAII; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



695 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Jitters in Japan for Savers and Banks 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
As Japan's debt-sodden banks stagger to the end of the fiscal year in March, the impending end of the government's blanket guarantee on bank deposits is causing skittish savers to pull their money out of the country's smallest lenders, sinking some and potentially generating a wider economic crisis, with larger banks also at risk.
 On Monday, Moody's Investors Service lowered the deposit ratings for five regional banks and downgraded the outlook for Japan's biggest banks to negative from stable. Moody's said it "considers the Japanese banking system to be in a grossly inadequate financial shape to meet the new challenges from a changing systemic support mechanism." 
 Paul H. O'Neill, the United States Treasury secretary, urged Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa today to press Japan's banks to write off their most troublesome loans. Mr. O'Neill was in Tokyo for the Afghan donors conference. 
Lawmakers from the ruling party have increasingly been calling for the government to keep the blanket guarantee for at least another year -- yet another test for Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi, who wants to clean up the ailing financial system with market-based solutions instead.
The plan to end the full guarantee on bank deposits, which Mr. Koizumi calls a subsidy for weak banks, was in the works under an earlier administration but was postponed as lawmakers decided that the financial system was too weak.
Despite the growing pressure, Mr. Koizumi seems determined to stand firm. He sees important long-term gains from doing so and fears a backlash from investors.
Starting in April, fixed-term deposits at any single bank will be insured only up to 10 million yen ($75,466) for each saver, a system similar to that of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in the United States. Ordinary savings accounts will be treated the same way beginning in April 2003.
In normal times, the ending of the blanket guarantee would probably cause barely a ripple. After all, people who want all their savings guaranteed by the government need only open accounts in multiple banks and keep no more than 10 million yen in each.
But these are not normal times in Japan. Profits at most banks have been eroded by a recession, a weak stock market and growing competition, leaving many with mountains of bad loans and high expenses.
Even so, the Japanese remain prodigious savers, parking 55 percent of their money, or $7.7 trillion, in banks. Burned by years of falling stock prices, they have traded high returns for piece of mind.
Interest rates on ordinary accounts are only around 0.03 percent, and twice that for certificates of deposit, but all deposits have been fully guaranteed since 1996, when the system was put in place to bolster public confidence after seven housing loan corporations collapsed.
In anticipation of the limited guarantees, however, many savers have been taking their money out of institutions they view as weak -- most of them credit unions and cooperatives, the country's smallest lenders -- and shifting it up the food chain: from the tiny co-ops to the small regional banks, and from the small regional banks to the big city banks.
Money is also going into the post office savings system, gold, nonyen accounts and mattresses. According to Richard Jerram, an economist at ING Baring Securities in Tokyo, as much as 100 trillion yen ($755 billion) is being moved around because of the deposit-guarantee change.
At the smallest banks, deposits fell 1.5 percent in the last three months of 2001. And time deposits, which banks rely on to provide cash for predictable periods, fell more than 30 percent at the nation's credit cooperatives in the first nine months of last year.
The exodus of money out of smaller institutions proved to be the final blow for a record 46 credit unions and cooperatives that collapsed last year. Ishikawa Bank, a larger regional lender, folded in December, the first failure of a full-fledged bank in two years.
Though the more than 600 cooperatives hold just 10 percent of the nation's savings, they are the lender of last resort for the millions of small companies that employ about 90 percent of Japan's work force. The demise of the co-ops has stoked fears that corporate bankruptcies will skyrocket, leaving banks of all stripes with even larger losses.
"From now until the end of March, there will be a financial crisis," Yoichi Masuzoe, a member of Parliament, said earlier this month.
Another problem for Mr. Koizumi is that the co-ops are at the center of many rural districts, where few banking alternatives exist and his Liberal Democrats win most of their support.
Fearing a backlash from voters, powerful voices in the party have begun accusing the prime minister of recklessness in his insistence on capping the deposit guarantee.
The government is "cutting down the weak trees and leaving only the strong ones," said Shizuka Kamei, an influential party member, adding, "That's like chopping down weak trees with Agent Orange -- if you do that, you'll kill the entire forest." Like some of his colleagues, he wants the government to extend the guarantee until the economy recovers.
Mr. Koizumi has softened his stance in recent weeks, saying he will intercede if a wider crisis envelops the banking system. But having staked his reputation on adopting needed but painful reforms, he is walking a fine line. Reversing course and keeping the full deposit guarantee -- a step that Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi took two years ago -- or funneling public money to prop up lenders would erode investors' confidence not only in Mr. Koizumi but also in the banking system.
"Postponing the reform again would be a virtual admission that the financial system is severely distressed," said Mr. Jerram, of ING Baring Securities.
For now, Mr. Koizumi and his team are hoping that the April deadline will pass without the trickle of bank failures turning into a torrent.
"So far they've been successful by winnowing out the weakest players without triggering a crisis," said Brian Waterhouse, a banking analyst at HSBC Securities in Tokyo. "But it's an extremely dangerous game they are playing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Japanese passing a stock market indicator yesterday reflected the mood among many. In such a climate, confidence can be shaken by even small changes, like a plan to limit guarantees on bank deposits. (Agence France-Presse) Chart: "Where the Yen Is"Change in deposits at Japanese banks since the end of 1999. Graph tracks changes for larger regional banks, major national banks, and smaller regional banks from 1999-2001.(Source: Bank of Japan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); CREDIT UNIONS (72%); RECESSION (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; CREDIT; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; INDUSTRY PROFILES; SAVINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT UNIONS 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%) SIC2721 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN; O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); SHIOKAWA, MASAJURO (MIN); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



696 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Run, Osama, Run 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
On the way back from Kabul, I passed through Pakistan, the Persian Gulf, London and Belgium, where I had a variety of talks with Arab and Muslim journalists and business people and Muslim community leaders in Europe. All of them were educated, intelligent and thoughtful -- and virtually none of them believed that Osama bin Laden was guilty.
 Let's see, there was the serious Arab journalist in Bahrain who said that Arabs could never have pulled off something as complex as Sept. 11; there was the Euro-Muslim woman in Brussels who looked at me as if I was a fool when I said that the bin Laden tape in which he boasted of the World Trade Center attack was surely authentic and had not been doctored by the Pentagon; there was the American-educated Arab student who insisted that somehow the C.I.A. or Mossad must have known about Sept. 11 in advance, so why didn't they stop it? There was the Saudi businessman who declared that there was a plot in the U.S. media to smear Saudi Arabia, for absolutely no reason. And there was the Pakistani who confided that his kids' entire elementary school class believed the canard that 4,000 Jews who worked in the World Trade Center were warned not to go to the office on Sept. 11. 
 Frankly, these views have been present across the Arab-Muslim world ever since Sept. 11, but I somehow hoped that after the fall of the Taliban, or bin Laden's confessional tapes, they would have melted away. But they have not. Indeed, they have congealed into an iron curtain of misunderstanding separating America and the Arab-Muslim world, and are now as deeply held as they were on Sept. 11 -- even if people are slightly more reticent about airing them. 
And they add up to a simple point: that while America has won the war in Afghanistan, it has not won the hearts and minds of the Arab-Muslim world. The cultural-political-psychological chasm between us is wider than ever. And if you don't believe that, ask any U.S. ambassador from Morocco to Islamabad -- any one of them. They will share with you cocktail party chatter about the "American conspiracy" against the Muslim world that will curl your ears.
Yes, there are exceptions in every country. When I sat with Bahraini friends in Manama last week, I found many of them deeply introspective and ready to look reality in the eye. But these are not the rule. Why? What produced this iron curtain of mistrust and misunderstanding?
There are many rivets in it. One is our own failure over the past two decades to really explain ourselves in Arabic and to puncture canards about U.S. policy with hard facts. The Bush team has yet to provide a dossier, in Arabic, detailing all the evidence against bin Laden. It is not too late for that, although facts alone will not be enough.
There is enormous cultural resistance to believing anything good about America. Some of this is deliberately fanned by the state-run press in certain Arab countries to deflect criticism from the regime. Some is revenge for America's support for Israel, particularly at this time when the Israeli-Palestinian conflict has turned into such a human meat grinder, aired every night on Arab TV. Not acknowledging America's version of reality, or undercutting its sense of victory in Afghanistan, is a way for Arabs and Muslims to get revenge for America's support for Israel, which they feel so powerless to affect.
At the same time, there does seem to be a certain strain of self-loathing at work in parts of the Arab-Muslim world today. What else can one think when someone tells you that Arabs or Muslims could never have been clever enough to pull off Sept. 11 -- only the Mossad or C.I.A.? It is a sad fact that Arab self-esteem is very low these days, because of the lagging state of Arab political systems and economies, and that feeds the free-floating anger that bin Laden has been surfing on.
Finally, we have to admit that bin Laden touches something deep in the Arab-Muslim soul, even among those who condemn his murders. They still root for him as the one man who was not intimidated by America's overweening power, as the one man who dared to tell certain Arab rulers that they had no clothes, and as the one man who did something about it. 
Quietly today, many in the Arab-Muslim world are rooting for bin Laden to get away. They are whispering in their hearts, "Run, Osama, run!" That's what's really going on out there. I just wish we knew how to change it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); TALIBAN (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORISM (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); HIJACKING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (60%) TERRORISM; PUBLIC OPINION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (93%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; BIN LADEN, OSAMA 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); BAHRAIN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (92%); GULF STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); BELGIUM (90%); MOROCCO (77%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



697 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE LAWYER; 
Seeking Top Berth In Pursuit Of Enron

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan 22 

 BODY:
The lawyer William Lerach was all over the television news today as he lugged a large carton of shredded Enron documents to the courthouse in Houston. Amid a sea of microphones, Mr. Lerach gave the impression he was leading the charge for angry shareholders in their legal battle against Enron.
 In reality, it is a job he wants but does not yet have. Instead, Mr. Lerach, perhaps the most famous and flamboyant lawyer for shareholders, is engaged in a pitched three-way battle to be named chief legal counsel for all Enron shareholders, a job that could end up netting legal fees in the hundreds of millions of dollars for the firm selected. 
 Just who will be named chief counsel for the class-action suit will be determined by a federal judge next month. 
In the meantime, Mr. Lerach is campaigning, appearing on morning talk shows and making dramatic statements to reporters on the courthouse steps as he filled the airwaves today.
He wants the job so badly that he has even jettisoned some clients, most famously, Amalgamated Bank of New York, in the hopes of staking his fortune with even bigger ones -- one of the criteria for deciding the lead counsel. 
"Bill Lerach puts himself in the forefront in terms of publicity and fees and everything else," said James M. Finberg, a lawyer with a San Francisco firm that is also vying to be named chief counsel. "But the decision of who becomes lead counsel will not be made by who has the most press attention, but will be made by a judge." His firm's clients include the City of New York pension fund and a State of Florida pension fund.
In the world of shareholder litigation, Mr. Lerach, who did not return calls for comment, is well known. He has won over a billion dollars for shareholders in two big financial scandals involving junk bonds and savings and loans, and brought frivolous cases like litigation over the lip-synching duo, Milli Vanilli.
Mr. Lerach has made a personal fortune and gained the lasting hatred of corporate America by bringing more than 600 suits against companies whose stock price has dropped. His firm, Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach, accounts for about half of all shareholder suits against corporations and has won $6 billion for its clients. 
For this Mr. Lerach earned the name the "king of strike suits," and corporations talk about having been "Lerached."
His firm once agreed to pay $50 million to settle a case in which someone he sued accused him of abusing the legal system and a federal jury agreed.
"He is a controversial figure of historic dimensions," said John Coffee, a securities law professor at Columbia University. "Those who do not like him say he behaves as an extortionist, is threatening and shakes people down. Others say he is more zealous than the lazier plaintiffs' attorneys. He is the most controversial figure in a field of litigation known for its egos and flamboyant types."
Some say Mr. Lerach's boldest move to date may be in giving the impression in the Enron case that he already has the job he wants: "Lerach is running around like it's his case," said one law school professor, who insisted on not being identified. "Why is this man smiling? He thinks he has the case, and it is not clear that he does."
In reality there are three legal teams vying to be selected as the lead counsel for the shareholders -- mainly large pension funds who bought Enron shares, but also individual investors. Mr. Lerach's big client is the University of California Regents, which has lost about $144 million. Another is Mr. Finberg's firm, Lieff Cabraser Heimann Bernstein, whose two clients, the New York and Florida pension funds, have a combined total of $440 million in losses and which feels it has something extra. "We have a very sympathetic group," Mr. Finberg said. "We represent a lot of the families of people who died in the World Trade Center."
A third group is composed of public pension funds from Georgia, Ohio, Washington and Alabama and is represented by a law firm in Delaware and one in Atlanta. This group is claiming losses of $330 million. Lawyers for the two firms, Grant & Eisenhofer and Chitwood & Harley, did not return calls. 
Under federal securities reform legislation enacted in 1995, the criterion for selecting a lead lawyer was changed. Rather than the firm that filed a class-action case first (one of Mr. Lerach's specialties), the lawyer who represents the plaintiffs with the greatest losses, among other factors, is now favored.
The lead lawyer's firm decides on the legal strategy, directs all other lawyers and gets the biggest slice of the fees, as well as determines how much lawyers for the other plaintiffs will be paid. These fees can run into the hundreds of millions -- the $3.2 billion class-action settlement against the Cendant Corporation is expected to net legal fees of over $270 million.
"The lead law firm does most of the work and gets most of the fees," said Brian Borders, a spokesman for the Association of Publicly Traded Companies, which represents small and midsize companies. "The fees in the Enron case could be in the hundreds of millions. It is going to be the grandaddy of all securities class-action cases and that will dictate the size of the fees."
At the moment, Mr. Lerach is doing some fancy footwork to get the lead position. In court today, he argued that the selection of the lead counsel should be changed from the law firm whose clients, as a group, suffered the biggest losses to the firm with the single client who has lost the most. By the first calculation, Mr. Lerach's firm would be in third place. 
By the second calculation, he contends, he would be in first place, as he says the California Regents' $144 million was the single largest loss. While the Florida pension fund lost more, $300 million, Mr. Lerach argued that Florida should be disqualified as a lead plaintiff because it brought more class-action lawsuits over the last three years than allowed by federal law. But lawyers for the State of Florida say this law does not apply to institutional investors.
To back up his legal theory that the lawyer for the single-biggest plaintiff should get the nod, he asked his other client, Amalgamated Bank, to step down, and the bank, with only $10 million in losses, agreed.
"This is something that we agreed to do so that Bill Lerach could become the lead attorney on the case," said Melissa Moye, chief economist for Amalgamated Bank, who reasoned that if stepping back was the only way to get Mr. Lerach selected to represent the whole class of shareholders, it would.
"We did this by mutual consent. We want the California Regents to be named as the lead plaintiff," Ms. Moye said.
In fact, some see Mr. Lerach's action's today, especially his courting of the press, as a smart marketing move intended to draw even bigger clients to him.
"He's been courting the pension funds by saying, you ought to pick Milberg Weiss as the lead counsel," said Mr. Borders of the publicly traded companies group. "It's all about marketing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Lerach, a lawyer representing shareholders suing 29 current and former executives and directors of the Enron Corporation. (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); JUDGES (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); JURY TRIALS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (72%); SAVINGS & LOANS (67%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (62%); EXTORTION (62%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (62%); SCANDALS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (50%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BANKRUPTCIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); MILBERG LLP (84%); AMALGAMATED BANK OF NEW YORK (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; MILBERG WEISS BERSHAD HYNES & LERACH; LIEFF CABRASER HEIMANN BERNSTEIN; GRANT & EISENHOFER; CHITWOOD & HARLEY 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE; LERACH, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



698 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Off on Warning About Technology

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks fell yesterday, sending the Nasdaq composite index to its lowest level in two months, after a Merrill Lynch analyst said that computer-related shares were more expensive then they had been in almost 20 years.
 Microsoft and Intel led the decline. Kmart plunged after filing for protection from creditors. 
 Shares of Microsoft fell $1.64, to $64.46, and Intel dropped $1.78, to $31.70. 
Kmart plunged $1.04, or 60 percent, to 70 cents.
The Nasdaq composite index dropped 47.81 points, or 2.5 percent, to close at 1,882.53. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.27 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,119.31. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 58.05 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 9,713.80. 
Richard Bernstein, chief United States strategist at Merrill Lynch, wrote in a note to clients yesterday that technology shares were overvalued. He advised them to book gains they might have had in technology stocks from the rally, which began late last year, that has lifted the Nasdaq as much as 45 percent from its September lows.
Valuations in these stocks "are now clearly stretched to bubble-like levels," he said. Investors should favor drug stocks, he said.
His research found that technology shares were the most expensive in the last 18 years, compared with the S.& P. 500. On the same basis, using projected earnings, drug stocks have only been cheaper on two other occasions over the period.
Investors mostly ignored a report yesterday from the Conference Board that showed its index of leading economic indicators rose 1.2 percent in December, the third consecutive monthly rise. The increase, a sign the recession may end by the middle of this year, was the largest since February 1996. --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
(By Reuters)
Treasury bond prices slipped yesterday. Remarks by a Federal Reserve official and a big jump in the index of leading indicators threw cold water on prospects for another Fed rate reduction next week after 11 cuts since the start of last year.
Prospective supply from a coming two-year note auction also weighed on that sector, analysts said. The Treasury will auction a record $25 billion in two-year notes today.
Treasuries sank after Robert McTeer, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said the economy had improved from where it was two months ago. A Conference Board report that the index of leading economic indicators jumped 1.2 percent in December also contributed to the decline. 
The benchmark 10-year note fell 5/32, to a price of 100 23/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.90 percent from 4.88 percent on Friday. Markets were closed Monday.
The 30-year bond, sensitive to worries about the long-term inflation outlook, returned to its lowest levels of the day when the government reported a smaller surplus for December than in the month a year ago -- $26.57 billion, down from $32.67 billion in December 2000. 
The 30-year bond fell 12/32, to a price of 99 29/32. Its yield rose to 5.38 percent from 5.36 percent on Friday.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills
Price: 99.578
6-Mo. Bills
Price: 99.123

3-Mo. Bills
High Rate: 1.670
6-Mo. Bills
High Rate: 1.735

3-Mo. Bills
Investment Rate: 1.700
6-Mo. Bills
Investment Rate: 1.774

3-Mo. Bills
Low Rate: 1.62%
6-Mo. Bills
Low Rate: 1.66%

3-Mo. Bills
Median Rate: 1.64%
6-Mo. Bills
Median Rate: 1.64%

3-Mo. Bills
Total applied for: $32,213,922
6-Mo. Bills
Total applied for: $26,960,172

3-Mo. Bills
Accepted: $18,820,302
6-Mo. Bills
Accepted: $17,673,112

3-Mo. Bills
Noncompetitive: $1,421,102
6-Mo. Bills
Noncompetitive: $928,381

Both issues are dated Jan. 24. The three-month bills mature on April 25 and the six-month bills mature on July 25.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUCTIONS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); CENTRAL BANKS (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (62%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%); INTEL CORP (58%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



699 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: GROUND ZERO: CITY GOVERNMENT; 
Mayor Tells New Firefighters He Won't Skimp on Training

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday that although the city's budget would not be able to cover all the needs of the Fire Department, New York would still go ahead with plans for a new $50 million training center for probationary firefighters, as well as a new command center for the city's Office of Emergency Management. The old command center, known informally as the bunker, was destroyed in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. 
 Mr. Bloomberg mentioned both plans yesterday when he swore in the latest group of firefighters beginning training, the second such class to emerge since Sept. 11, when the department lost 343 members. 
 "You have accepted a fundamentally dangerous job," he told the incoming firefighters. "But that does not mean we can't do an awful lot to ensure that you get home every night to your families." 
"My commitment to you," he continued, "is that we will provide the resources, even in tough economic times, to make sure that that tradition of the bravest continues. That doesn't mean we're going to be able to do everything we'd like to do. That doesn't mean we're going to have as many firefighters as we'd like to have. But we'd like to make sure that we give you the tools to do your job."
Construction has already begun on three buildings, and on the renovation of a building on Randalls Island, home to the 27-acre Fire Department training academy known by department members as the Rock. The first building is expected to be completed in March. 
The new additions will include a "burn building" in which firefighter trainees will get used to high temperatures, and an area where they will acclimate to fire and smoke. Two days of antiterrorism training will be added to their curriculum, said the new fire commissioner, Nicholas Scoppetta. The project is expected to be completed by the end of next year. Mr. Scoppetta, addressing his first class of recruits, said: "You are sworn in today in the shadow of giants. We can never really replace that experience, but we can substitute the kind of training you will get here that will prepare you for the very, very difficult job that you will have ahead of you." 
Four of the 307-member class, who go through about three months of training, lost a brother or father in the World Trade Center attack. And department officials said yesterday that 15 percent of the class were minority recruits, the highest percentage in 10 years.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's $13 million command bunker in 7 World Trade Center collapsed seven hours after being set on fire by falling debris. Since Sept. 11, a temporary command center has been run from Pier 92, and a backup site was also set up at a location that city officials have never revealed. Now the plan is for a new, permanent command center, probably in a borough other than Manhattan, officials say, and another backup center. Several sites are being evaluated. 
Yesterday, a spokesman for the Office of Emergency Management, the agency that would be housed in the bunker, declined to provide even hints about the new site, whose whereabouts Mr. Bloomberg said would be announced soon. 
Under the Giuliani administration, however, officials came up with certain criteria for a site: it must be far from water, so it does not flood and cannot be attacked from a boat. It must be easy to get to by several forms of transportation, and it would be a plus if the site had a spot to land a helicopter. Giuliani officials did extensive searching in Brooklyn. 
"We are looking for a new site," Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday. "That is one of the high-priority items in this administration. Rest assured that it will be not in a high-rise building," or, he added, in an area where there are many other buildings nearby. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg swore in the second class of probationary firefighters since Sept. 11 and assured them of the city's support. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); FIRES (78%); CURRICULA (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%) FIRES AND FIREMEN; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (59%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



700 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Satellite Start-Up forApple Co-Founder

BYLINE:  By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: LOS GATOS, Calif. Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Emerging from an early retirement he began more than a decade ago, Stephen Wozniak, one of Silicon Valley's legendary computer designers, has caught start-up fever and is forming a company to develop consumer products based on wireless and global positioning satellite technologies.
 The company, which is being backed by Mobius Venture Capital and Draper Fisher Jurvetson, two of the Valley's largest venture capital firms, and Palo Alto Investors, was financed in December with a $6 million initial investment. It plans to have its first products finished sometime next year. 
 G.P.S. receivers have until now been relatively costly devices used by sportsmen and in car navigation systems. But the falling cost has made it possible to think about integrating location data with almost anything wireless and connected to the Internet. By driving down the cost of G.P.S. technology, the company says, it expects to help "everyday people track everyday things."
The new company has been named Wheels of Zeus, a takeoff on Woz, the nickname of its founder, who in 1976 left his job as a Hewlett-Packard technician to found Apple Computer with his high school friend, Steven P. Jobs. It is the first start-up venture for Mr. Wozniak since he closed his previous company, Cloud 9, a maker of high-end consumer remote control devices, in 1988.
While Mr. Jobs went on to found Next Inc., bought Pixar, and then returned to Apple as its chief executive in 1997, Mr. Wozniak, now 51, has largely remained on the sidelines. That has made him unusual in a hothouse business and technology culture that is characterized by serial entrepreneurs, few of them walking away after either success or failure. Instead, he has occupied himself with private investments and has taught computer education for elementary through high school students in the Los Gatos, Calif., school district, where he lives.
The new company will not initially announce what products it is planning and Mr. Wozniak said this week it was likely that it would not at first market its own products. It will instead seek licensing and marketing arrangements with other consumer electronics and related companies.
He said one goal was to take technologies that are now costly and reduce them in price so they could be sold in consumer markets. He said he was not concerned that Silicon Valley was in one of its steepest declines in a decade. Wheels of Zeus has based itself in a small office building here, and Mr. Wozniak said the rent was less than half of what it would have been at the peak of the Internet bubble that ended about a year ago.
"I'm trying to conserve money," he said.
Mr. Wozniak said he had enjoyed simply being a consumer of new technologies for more than a decade. But last year, a friend visited and began talking about an idea that used G.P.S. in a strange way and he found himself excited by the prospects of doing something with this.
"Sometimes I say that and I'm not really serious," he remarked, "but this time I was really serious."
Mr. Wozniak said he had considered financing the new venture privately and with the support of individual investors. But late last year, he bumped into Greg Galanos, a partner at Mobius, the investment firm based in Mountain View, Calif., formerly named Softbank Venture Capital.
Mr. Galanos said his firm had been excited about both the company's technology idea and the possibility of backing Mr. Wozniak.
"After all how many times will Steve jump on something new again?" he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Wozniak, Apple's co-founder, at his start-up company, Wheels of Zeus, in Los Gatos, Calif., yesterday. G.P.S. technology lured him back. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); STARTUPS (90%); EARLY RETIREMENT (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (72%); REMOTE CONTROL DEVICES (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (66%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SATELLITES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: DRAPER FISHER JURVETSON (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: WHEELS OF ZEUS (CO); MOBIUS VENTURE CAPITAL; DRAPER FISHER JURVETSON; PALO ALTO INVESTORS 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (84%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (78%) MARKOFF, JOHN; WOZNIAK, STEPHEN; MARKOFF, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



701 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Daschle Hopes to Lead Senate Toward an Economic Recovery Package 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic majority leader, said today that he intended to begin the new legislative year with an effort to pass the elements of an economic recovery package that both parties support.
 Having been criticized by Republicans as obstructionist since a recession-fighting package died in the Senate last month, Mr. Daschle sought to recast the partisan debate over how to help the economy in terms favorable to his party. 
 With Congress scheduled to reconvene on Wednesday, Mr. Daschle said the Senate should move quickly to adopt an extension of unemployment benefits, a one-time payment of $300 to low-income workers, a temporary tax credit for businesses that invest in new equipment and money to help the states cope with rising costs in Medicaid. 
Republicans all but rejected his offer, saying they would continue to push for a broader package that includes permanent tax cuts for individuals and businesses. But they left open the possibility that they could support a narrower package if their bill failed to pass. 
It is not clear that either party's approach can deliver the 60 votes needed to pass the legislation in the Senate.
The skirmish came as the two parties prepared to begin work on a new budget, an annual battle that promises to be even more contentious than usual. The administration and the two parties in Congress are confronting not only a return to budget deficits but the needs created by the war on terrorism and the recession, as well as the normal election-year pressures for more spending.
In a sign of the political cross-currents, administration officials said the budget proposal that President Bush was preparing to send to Capitol Hill would call for a spending increase of as much as 9 percent next year, much larger than many conservatives are comfortable with. 
It will also forecast a deficit that could approach $100 billion, a level that Democrats said they would use to level charges of fiscal mismanagement at the administration.
People familiar with Mr. Bush's plan said it would propose an increase in military spending of around $35 billion, on top of the current level of $329 billion, and a doubling of the budget for domestic security programs, to $30 billion.
Some other domestic and social programs unrelated to the war would also get spending increases under Mr. Bush's plan, but others would be frozen or cut. 
Over all, programs not related to national security would grow at a rate in the low single digits, probably around 3 percent, meaning that many of them would not keep up with inflation, budget analysts said.
The Congressional Budget Office will provide the House and Senate budget committees with its fiscal outlook as lawmakers return to work on Wednesday, defining the field on which the budget battle will take place. The figures are expected to show the government in a deficit for the next few years even before any new spending or tax cuts.
In seeking to start the year with a focus on the economy, Mr. Daschle was following his party's strategy of emphasizing its differences with Mr. Bush on issues other than the campaign against terrorism.
His office said Mr. Daschle's slimmed-down economic plan would cost $69 billion in the current fiscal year, then drop off sharply to $7 billion next year, reflecting its goal of giving a sharp but temporary lift to the economy.
Mr. Daschle's plan would leave for later the question of whether the recovery plan should include what Republicans consider the most effective tonic for the economy, a permanent round of new or accelerated tax cuts for individuals and businesses. 
It would also put aside the divisive question of how to provide better access to health insurance for the unemployed, which more than any other issue led to a stalemate on economic legislation before Congress recessed for the holidays last month.
In a letter sent today to Mr. Bush, Mr. Daschle said he was proposing "that we break the impasse on economic recovery legislation by adopting a nonpartisan, common-sense approach." 
"Let's immediately pass what we agree on," Mr. Daschle wrote, "and keep working to find common ground in the areas where we disagree."
The House twice passed packages of tax cuts and help for the unemployed last fall, but efforts to forge a compromise broke down in the closely divided Senate. 
Although economists say the recession appears to be drawing to a close, and may even be over, both parties are pressing ahead with their plans, sensitive to the likelihood that the recovery could be weak and that unemployment typically continues to rise for months even after a downturn ends.
In a letter to Mr. Bush tonight, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican minority leader, said Mr. Daschle's offer could break the logjam. But in a clear sign of how far apart the two parties remain, Mr. Lott went on to say that he would immediately seek a vote on the bill passed last month by Republicans in the House, a measure that Mr. Daschle has said is unacceptable.
Administration officials said Mr. Bush's budget proposal would set aside about $75 billion next year and $50 billion the year after to pay for an economic recovery plan along the lines of the bill that passed in the House. That bill includes an acceleration of the income tax rate reductions included in last year's tax bill and a variety of permanent corporate tax cuts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Tom Daschle will put the economy back on the table today. (Carol T. Powers for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (75%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MEDICAID (70%); DEFENSE SPENDING (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; DASCHLE, TOM (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



702 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 920 words

HEADLINE: A BUDGET FOR NEW YORK: CITY REACTION; 
The Promise of State Aid Inspires Both Relief and Uncertainty

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
If New York City officials were looking to the state for significant aid to help them close a multibillion-dollar shortfall in the city budget in the coming year, the budget that Gov. George E. Pataki proposed here today makes it clear that they will have to keep looking to the federal government.
 But if the state budget proposal was not all that some city officials had hoped, it was certainly not all that others had feared. Despite the $5.7 billion deficit that the state faces in the coming year, Mr. Pataki said that his budget would not only "hold the line" and avoid cutbacks in most programs, but would also actually increase aid to the city. 
 The way the governor explains it, his budget plan will raise state aid to the city by $509 million next year. Some city officials and budget monitors expressed doubts about that figure, which is based on a number of assumptions that may not come to pass, but they expressed relief nonetheless that the state budget would not seriously cut their aid.
Mr. Pataki, a Republican, said that the city would be receiving not only the state aid, but also more than $10 billion in federal money to help it rebuild from the attack on the World Trade Center. "We're going to make sure that New York City not just is rebuilt, but that New York City comes back economically and from a civic standpoint, stronger than ever," he said.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said he would travel to Albany on Monday to testify about the city's needs before State Senate and Assembly committees. "We understand that the state has limited resources," he said, but he added that the city's needs are great and expressed hope that a way can be found "to get our fair share of the monies that the state distributes."
Some Democrats and city officials questioned whether the state was doing enough to help the city -- whose budget deficit for the coming year has been estimated at $2.9 billion to $4.7 billion -- recover from the attack and set its books in order.
And they criticized Mr. Pataki for announcing an economic development program, called the Economic Opportunity Fund, that would eventually provide more than $2 billion to pay for infrastructure improvements to create jobs in upstate New York and the Hudson Valley and on Long Island -- but not in New York City.
The City Council speaker, Gifford Miller, criticized the plan. State Senator Eric T. Schneiderman, a Manhattan Democrat, said, "For the governor to send up an economic development program after New York City has suffered its most devastating blow, and to explicitly exclude New York City, is unbelievable."
Mr. Pataki said the program was intended to address the economic needs of the three regions that it would help, and he noted that the city would be getting significant federal aid that he hoped could be used for economic development. He said that "we will be getting federal funds to be able to rebuild not just Lower Manhattan, but a significant percentage of those funds we hope, at the end of the day, we'll be able to use to help those other areas in the city that have been impacted by the economic crisis."
The governor said that the budget included enough aid to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to avoid fare increases.
The state plan gives the city the authority to impose a 30-cent tax on cellphones, which would net about $12 million a year. The city could also bring in $4.5 million in new revenues from a cigarette-tax increase, while a change in how the state collects sales taxes electronically from merchants is expected to bring the city another $13.8 million in the coming year.
But some officials and budget monitors warned that some of the promises might not come to fruition. The governor's $509 million figure includes $110 million that will be realized only if the federal government increases the amount of Medicaid money that it pays to the states -- something that officials in Washington have said is highly unlikely.
The largest portion of the $509 million that Mr. Pataki says the city would get under his plan is not exactly new money. For years the city has complained that it has not been reimbursed fully by the state for the money it has spent on education. Mr. Pataki said that he would authorize a bond sale to pay the city $204 million in reimbursements for some of those past claims.
The schools chancellor, Harold O. Levy, praised what he described as a "creative initiative to pay longstanding prior-year school aid claims," and said the money "should accelerate an infusion of state aid payments to meet critical local needs."
Some education officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said they expected that the money would be set aside to help pay for teacher raises. That could raise eyebrows among some budget watchdogs, who oppose the government issuing debt to pay salaries.
But while the infusion of money will be welcome, it is really in effect giving the city money that it has already spent. The budget would reduce other forms of school aid to the city by $11 million.
The budget would also increase state aid to the city for welfare programs by $132 million, state officials said. That includes more aid for child welfare programs, and money to double the subsidy for homeless families that have spent nine months in shelters to help them move to permanent housing.
"We were pleasantly surprised," said Gail B. Nayowith, executive director of the Citizens' Committee for Children of New York City. "We were warned the budget would be dire with a capital D." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); CITIES (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); JOB CREATION (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) COOPER, MICHAEL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



703 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Espionage? By the U.S.? China Prefers To Stay Quiet 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
A Chinese government spokesman offered a muted reaction today to disclosures that a presidential jet outfitted in the United States had been crammed with listening devices, and his comments suggest that China would not let the incident upset plans for the first state visit by President Bush next month. 
 The plane was delivered to China in September but has not been used because the Chinese military discovered that its interior was laced with sophisticated satellite-operated bugs, an airline official and a Western diplomat here said today. 
 "I don't think this case will have any impact on other issues," Sun Yuxi, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said at a regularly scheduled news conference this afternoon. 
It was the first time the government had directly addressed the allegations, which emerged in the Western press over the weekend. The effort to play down an episode that many had predicted would lead to a diplomatic crisis illustrates the depth of China's current commitment to cultivating better relations with the United States. 
The officials who confirmed the reports said there had apparently already been dismissals in China's civil aviation office, which arranged to buy the Boeing 767, and in the Air Force, which was assigned to guard the jet while it was being refurbished last year in San Antonio by two American companies. 
Two senior Chinese civil aviation officials of the civil aviation office have disappeared, a Western diplomat said, and a senior Air Force officer who was supervising security has been detained. 
But there has not been a single word of public outrage. Indeed, experts note that the government has seemingly gone out of its way to suppress information about a case that threatens to embarrass both Chinese and American leaders. 
Cultivating good relations with the United States has become a paramount goal for China's leadership since Sept. 11. To a large extent, Washington has reciprocated. 
"The two countries will insure that this incident has no big effect, because they understand the importance of preserving their relationship," said Wang Yong, a foreign-policy expert at Beijing University. "It would have had a bigger impact before Sept. 11, but I think even then it would not have been huge. China is now concentrating on stability and developing its economy, and for that it needs good relations with the U.S."
China's leaders have little to gain and much to lose right now by publicly protesting -- or even publicly acknowledging -- any tampering with the plane. 
Last year, when an American EP-3 spy plane collided with a Chinese Air Force jet that was tailing it over international waters off the coast of southern China, the government loudly condemned American espionage. That set off a tense period marked by strong anti-American public sentiment here. 
With Mr. Bush due here in less than a month, the government has little interest in poisoning the atmosphere for dialogue. 
Mr. Bush started his term loudly proclaiming his strong distrust of China. Since Sept. 11, though, he has softened that position considerably, in part because of China's strong support for the United States' action in Afghanistan. He has been urged in that direction by pro-engagement advisers like Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and by Mr. Bush's ambassador to China, and old friend, Clark T. Randt.
It is no secret that other administration officials, particularly in the Defense Department, continue to see China as inherently an enemy. 
The Chinese government is acutely aware that a successful summit meeting next month could help bring President Bush firmly into the pro-engagement camp.
"They know that 9/11 has changed the environment and they can use that to change the substance of their relationship with the U.S.," said a Western academic who has recently discussed the issue in China. "They know that the only way to move the administration to the center is through a full-court press to prove and impress the Bush administration that it can cooperate with China."
Domestic political considerations also help explain why the bugging scandal might be kept under wraps. For China's military officers, the allegations involve dereliction of duty or (according to some versions of the story) a willingness to take bribes. 
For President Jiang Zemin, the placement of listening devices would mean betrayal by a country he has sought to portray as friend. The fuss also draws attention to the lavish plane he had ordered, already a source of grumbling among some people.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about reports of listening devices in an aircraft outfitted in the United States for China's used an erroneous given name in some editions for the United States ambassador, who was cited as an advocate of improving relations. He is Clark T. Randt, not Alexander.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WIRETAPPING (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (76%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (76%); POISONINGS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%) ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); SOUTH CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) CHINA; 

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



704 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Steel Users Campaigning Against Curbs on Imports 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
A coalition of manufacturing companies that rely on steel imports has begun lobbying the White House and Congress to reject proposed restrictions on foreign-made steel, arguing that protecting ailing steel makers will cost consumers far more than it helps producers.
 The group, which includes the heavy equipment maker Caterpillar and the lobbyist for the leading makers of home appliances, has stepped up its campaign ahead of a pending administration decision on whether to enact what could be the most sweeping controls on steel imports since the 1980's. 
 Under a trade action he started last year, President Bush must decide by March 6 whether to impose tariffs and quotas on a wide range of steel products. Last month, a government trade panel recommended tariffs as high as 40 percent on some steel imports. Mr. Bush can accept, amend or reject those recommendations. 
As part of an effort to counter the Washington influence of major steel companies and their unions, corporate members of the Emergency Committee for American Trade, an umbrella group that works to dismantle barriers to open trade in steel and other goods, have met with administration officials in recent days to fight the industry's push for high tariffs.
"Steel tariffs would be an abrogation of President Bush's 'not over my dead body' promise not to raise taxes," said William C. Lane, Washington director for Caterpillar. "They are really a tax on all steel users."
The antitariff lobbyists released a study today from two economists at the Institute for International Economics that said the highest tariffs and tightest quotas under consideration would cost domestic steel users and foreign steel companies $34 billion over four years. American companies that buy steel would end up paying about $500,000 for every job saved by shielding steel companies from foreign competition, according to the study.
Steel makers and unions have asserted that the trade protections are vital to protect the industry against a flood of cheap imports, which they say are made possible because foreign governments subsidize steel companies. Most of the major integrated American steel companies are in serious financial trouble and need government help to stay in business, the companies have said.
Steel users agree that producers need help. They say they support the steel industry's request for government aid to help them pay pension and health benefits for retired steel workers. Steel companies say such so-called legacy costs have eroded their profitability. They have asked the Bush administration and Congress for as much as $13 billion in aid.
But unlike the steel companies, the user group says steel companies should receive aid instead of -- not in addition to -- limits on imports.
Trade experts who oppose restricting imports also say that the Bush administration may not have much room under international trade rules to protect steel companies.
The World Trade Organization permits member nations to impose temporary restrictions on imports in some circumstances, like sudden surges of foreign-made goods that cripple domestic manufacturers.
But trade experts say that the latest statistics show that imports of leading steel products, including hot- and cold-rolled flat steel, have declined over the last three years, while some other steel imports have increased only modestly over the period.
That could give Britain, Germany, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, South Korea, China and other steel exporters the right to retaliate immediately against United States steel tariffs or quotas unless the Bush administration negotiates corresponding reductions in tariffs on other goods, like textiles and sugar.
Even if new tariffs were upheld by the World Trade Organization, they have repeatedly proved to be ineffective in helping steel producers in this country, trade experts said.
Ben Goodrich, a co-author of the study of steel tariffs, said various forms of trade protections enacted since 1968 had done little to put the steel industry on a firm footing but had cost steel users $120 billion.
"If trade protection could foster industrial prosperity, the U.S. steel industry would be doing very well," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (91%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); LOBBYING (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (60%) STEEL AND IRON; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS (59%) EMERGENCY COMMITTEE FOR AMERICAN TRADE; INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



705 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Memo; 
Senator Attacks Oil Policy As Top Democrats Jockey

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Senator John F. Kerry of Massachusetts criticized President Bush's energy plan today as "old thinking" that would not end the nation's dependence on foreign oil, becoming the latest prominent Democrat to stake out his differences with the president.
 Mr. Kerry's nearly hourlong speech, endorsing tougher fuel efficiency standards and tax credits to promote reliance on alternative and renewable fuels, was the newest sign that the race for the Democratic presidential nomination is well under way two years before the first primaries. 
 Although presidential hopefuls often like to try out their voices far from Washington at small fund-raising dinners and gatherings with the party faithful, an unusual number of aspiring Democrats are seeking a national platform here in the capital. 
First was Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, in a major speech this month that accused Republicans of pushing through a tax cut that worsened the recession. Last week, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut sought to make his mark with a speech at Georgetown University on foreign policy that included a call for the overthrow of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq.
Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House minority leader, plans to enter the fray on Thursday by setting out a long-term economic plan for his party. Interestingly, Mr. Gephardt, widely seen as particularly close to organized labor, has chosen to give his speech at the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, which he helped found but has not always agreed with.
Today, Mr. Kerry, another likely 2004 aspirant, staked out environmental territory, saying Mr. Bush's energy policies were beholden to the status quo and arguing that it was "false advertising" to say those policies would lead to energy independence.
"Old thinking passed through the doors of 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue far more easily and often than new thinking," Mr. Kerry said. "Exxon Mobil, Enron or Chevron enjoyed an access bonanza at the expense of consumers and state-of-the-art environmental-technology manufacturers. As a result, those most heavily invested in the current energy system have set a course for the future which, not surprisingly, champions the status quo at the expense of new ideas and innovation."
It might seem early for such fierce competition in the war of ideas and, perhaps, even futile at a time Mr. Bush's approval ratings are extraordinarily high. But party strategists say Democrats remember how Bill Clinton jumped into the race early in 1991, when many more prominent Democrats hesitated to take on President George Bush.
Mr. Clinton's former strategist, James Carville, predicted that Mr. Bush "will become vulnerable, and no one wants someone to run around saying in 2004 that I was the first one to warn America about pollution, Enron, the deficit -- pick a subject."
"The futures market is at work here," Mr. Carville said, "and no one wants to be the guy who laid back too long."
In addition, with the primary season most likely to be accelerated, it is already time to be prospecting for staff members and money and seeking the serious scrutiny of pundits. 
"These candidates understand that the first primary is the idea primary, and they want to engage it," said Al From, head of the Democratic Leadership Council.
Different aspirants face different challenges, Democrats say. As Senate majority leader, Mr. Daschle does not want for exposure. He drew plenty of attention for his speech that said Mr. Bush and Republicans caused "the most dramatic fiscal deterioration in our nation's history" when they pushed through a 10-year $1.35 trillion tax cut.
But as Senate leader with a one-vote majority, Mr. Daschle cannot go beyond his ability to bring consensus. Some Democrats protested that he did not go far enough when he failed to propose rolling back part of the tax cut. More conservative Democrats complained that his criticism of Mr. Bush left them open to attack because they had voted for the cut.
Although he began his career as a new style high-tech Democrat, Mr. Gephardt is now more often perceived as an old-line labor liberal. So on Thursday he will try a balancing act. His aides say he will be trying to unite the wings of his party, taking the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., John J. Sweeney, to the speech at the leadership conference, a group that has had serious differences with labor on issues like trade policy.
Mr. Lieberman, who had to submerge some of his individuality as Al Gore's running mate in 2000, has been reclaiming his credentials as a moderate. When he spoke on foreign policy last week, he not only called for an initiative to "combat the despotism, poverty and isolation in the Muslim world that terrorists exploit," but he also showed himself to be a hawk in his party with his call to remove Mr. Hussein from power.
Mr. Kerry, with his promises to filibuster against drilling for oil in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, has been building a niche as an environmentalist, a less crowded arena if Mr. Gore chooses not to run again.
Today, Mr. Kerry cast the quest for renewable and alternate energy sources as a post-Sept. 11 necessity. "Domestic, renewable sources are urgently needed now, because they are entirely under our control," he said. "No foreign government can embargo them. No terrorist can seize control of them. No cartel can play games with them. No American soldier will have to risk his or her life to protect them."
Or course not every Democratic aspirant is speech making here. Senator John Edwards of North Carolina has no such address planned. But he will be on a foray to New Hampshire early next month.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John F. Kerry, who spoke yesterday on the environment. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); FUTURES (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (76%); TAX LAW (76%); FUNDRAISING (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); BIOFUELS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%); LABOR UNIONS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ENVIRONMENT; ENERGY AND POWER 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (58%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (58%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); TOM DASCHLE (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%) KERRY, JOHN F (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



706 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Kennedy and Bush Negotiate on Patients' Rights, Alarming Their Allies 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and the White House are engaged in intensive discussions seeking a deal on patients' rights legislation, and their usual allies are expressing alarm at the terms of a possible compromise.
 The talks focus on the ability of patients to enforce their rights by suing health plans, insurance companies and employers who have promised various health benefits. 
 The Senate passed its version of the legislation, the patients' bill of rights, last June by a vote of 59 to 36, with 9 Republicans supporting the legislation. The House passed its version, 226 to 203, in August. Both measures would allow patients to sue health maintenance organizations and insurers for injuries caused by the denial of care, but the House bill provides a more limited right to sue. 
Consumer advocates strongly prefer the Senate bill. President Bush favors the House bill and threatened to veto the Senate measure last year.
Mr. Kennedy and White House officials said they hoped to reach an agreement on patients' rights, just as they forged a bipartisan agreement on education legislation through weeks of quiet negotiations last year. The friendship between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kennedy, scions of two of America's best known political families, could yield political dividends for both men.
The chief sponsors of the Senate bill are Mr. Kennedy and Senators John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona.
In an interview, Mr. Edwards, a plaintiffs' lawyer intimately familiar with the issue of insurer liability, said: "I'm pretty optimistic that we may be able to reach some agreement. There is still a lot of work to be done."
Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia, wrote the liability provisions of the House bill in negotiations with the White House last year. Mr. Norwood, a longtime advocate of patients' rights, stunned Democrats when he agreed to restrictions on the right to sue demanded by Mr. Bush.
James P. Manley, a spokesman for Senator Kennedy, characterized the talks as conversations and added, "The conversations with the White House are designed to see if there is any common ground."
But the talks have progressed to the point that aides to Mr. Kennedy and White House officials are discussing legislative language to define the standard of care to which H.M.O.'s would be held in making medical decisions.
People involved in the discussions said they were using the House bill as their point of reference. In addition, they said, aides to Senator Kennedy have indicated that they could accept an arrangement under which the right to sue would be governed mainly by federal law, not by state laws regulating insurance or the quality of medical care. This would apparently give insurers the uniformity they seek.
In return for that concession, Senate aides said, lawsuits involving questions of medical judgment and medical necessity could be filed and tried in state court with juries determining the amount of damages in some cases. The H.M.O.'s performance would be measured against standards set forth in federal law.
Consumer advocates and plaintiffs' lawyers generally prefer state courts to federal courts because the state courts are more convenient and their rules of evidence and procedure are often more favorable to plaintiffs.
Groups that have supported Mr. Kennedy in the past expressed concern about the direction of his talks with the White House. They said they worried that in the guise of a patients' rights bill, the insurance industry would secure more protections for itself to stave off the impact of recent developments in courts and state legislatures that are trying to regulate managed health care.
In recent years, many federal and state judges have made it easier for injured patients to sue insurers for damages. But the law is continually in flux, and patients can never be sure whether they will prevail.
President Bush's usual allies, including business groups and insurers, are even more alarmed than the consumer groups.
Suzanne DeFrancis, a spokeswoman for the Health Benefits Coalition, which represents employers and insurers, said: "We are incredulous that talks on this bill are still going on. How in the world can Washington pass a bill that raises health costs at a time when costs are already going through the roof? We're in a recession. More and more people are losing insurance. Why are Congress and the White House discussing legislation that would make things worse?"
Members of the Health Benefits Coalition include the National Federation of Independent Business, the United States Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable, the National Association of Manufacturers, the Health Insurance Association of America and the American Association of Health Plans.
Supporters of patients' rights say that federal legislation is needed even more now as health costs rise rapidly because, they contend, insurers will be more tempted to save money by denying people treatment.
The House and Senate bills would both establish federal rights for tens of millions of people with insurance, guaranteeing access to emergency care, medical specialists and medically necessary prescription drugs.
Federal and state officials have had difficulty figuring out how to regulate H.M.O.'s because they make both administrative decisions, as insurers, and medical decisions, like doctors and hospitals.
Under the compromise now being discussed, H.M.O.'s could be sued like doctors and hospitals if, in making medical decisions, they failed to exercise "ordinary care" -- the degree of care, skill and diligence that would be exercised by a reasonable and prudent health care professional.
The White House wants to limit the damages that patients could recover in lawsuits against H.M.O.'s. But administration officials and Senate aides have apparently not discussed the precise level of such caps.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Edward M. Kennedy is seeking a deal on patients' rights. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INSURANCE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); VETO (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); JURY TRIALS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); EDUCATION LAW (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; CONSUMER PROTECTION 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%); DONNA F EDWARDS (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; KENNEDY, EDWARD M (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



707 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 23, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE OVERVIEW; 
InShift, Bush Assails Enron Over Handling of Collapse

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER with DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: BELLE, W.Va., Jan. 22 

 BODY:
Abruptly changing his tone about a company that contributed heavily to his political campaigns, President Bush said today that he was "outraged" that the Enron Corporation misled its employees and investors, including his mother-in-law, who he said lost more than $8,000 when its stock collapsed. 
 For the first time, Mr. Bush called for government action to force greater corporate disclosure of financial information. 
 In comments to reporters here before he toured a machinery shop, Mr. Bush also strongly defended how members of his cabinet handled calls for aid from Enron's top executives, summarizing those members' message to the company's leaders as "no help here." 
Mr. Bush's new tone came as the scope of the Enron investigation widened. The company told a federal court in Houston today that on Monday night it had discovered more shredded documents on the 19th floor of its headquarters in Houston, suggesting that employees were destroying potential evidence despite what the company's leaders say were orders to the contrary. 
The shredded remains were turned over to the Justice Department today, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation sealed off part of the headquarters building.
Meanwhile, the House Energy and Commerce committee said it would issue subpoenas to a recently dismissed partner of Arthur Andersen, the main accounting firm for Enron and the auditor of its questionable financial arrangements. The fired Andersen partner, David B. Duncan, may cite his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination before the committee on Thursday, investigators said. Three others at Andersen, including the firm's chief executive, were also summoned.
In his comments today, the president never mentioned Enron's chief executive, Kenneth L. Lay, a once-close friend whom he had nicknamed Kenny Boy and who was the largest single contributor to Mr. Bush's campaigns since Mr. Bush entered politics. Nonetheless, by implication the president cut the cord with Mr. Lay today, saying, "What I'm outraged about is that shareholders and employees didn't know all the facts about Enron."
"My own mother-in-law bought stock last summer, and it's not worth anything now," he said of Jenna Welch, Laura Bush's mother.
Mr. Bush added later: "She didn't know all the facts. And a lot of shareholders didn't know all the facts. And that's wrong."
Republican strategists said Mr. Bush's changed tone reflected a political calculation by the White House as Congressional hearings on the company's collapse begin this week. They said the administration was determined not to allow Democrats to portray Enron as a problem only for Republicans. 
"The dynamic over Enron cannot be that Democrats are against Enron and for reform, and we're defending Enron and against reform," said one strategist who is close to the White House but who would not allow his name to be used. "What Enron did is outrageous, and if you don't move to correct it, it becomes an indictment of the free market. The Republican Party is the free market party. And we have to demonstrate our desire to make the market fair and to crack down on abuse."
Bill Dal Col, a Republican strategist, said Mr. Bush's comments were an appropriate response to the widening disclosures about Enron.
"When you've got a crisis that's growing like this -- every time you turn the page there's a new chapter of hocus-pocus accounting -- the stronger the outrage has to be," Mr. Dal Col said.
After Mr. Bush spoke, the White House corrected the president on the timing of his mother-in-law's investment. Mrs. Welch bought 200 shares of Enron on Sept. 21, 1999, for $40.90 a share, the White House said, for a total investment of $8,180. She sold her holdings on Dec. 4, two days after the company declared bankruptcy, for 42 cents a share, meaning her investment had plummeted to $84.
The White House did not say if any other members of Mr. Bush's family had held Enron stock. Some of his close aides did, but they were forced to divest their holdings shortly after they joined the administration, under federal ethics rules.
When Mr. Bush last spoke publicly about Enron on Jan. 11, he distanced himself from Mr. Lay, saying he recalled that the Texas executive had also supported Mr. Bush's rival, Ann Richards, for governor of Texas -- and expressed concern for Enron's workers. Mr. Bush also called for an investigation into "the whys of Enron," focusing on changing rules to protect the life savings of workers. But in those comments, he never criticized the company or its executives, many of whom were his political and social friends in Texas. His tone suggested that he viewed Enron's collapse as an example of the ups and downs of capitalism, rather than an effort to defraud.
Today, after a stream of revelations about the company's efforts to hide its debts and overstate its profits, Mr. Bush seemed angry -- both at the company and at suggestions that his administration had been unduly influenced by a major contributor.
"If somebody has got an accusation about some wrongdoing, just let me know," he told reporters.
"It's like when I talked with Don Evans and O'Neill," he said, referring to his commerce secretary and Paul H. O'Neill, the secretary of the Treasury, "they told me they had spoke to Enron. I said, 'Tell the people what you did.' "
He brushed aside any suggestion that Enron officials, in several meetings with Vice President Dick Cheney and his energy task force, had influenced the administration's energy policy. "We laid out the energy report," Mr. Bush said. "It's fully disclosed." 
Mr. Bush called for action to prevent a recurrence of the Enron debacle, saying, "Our government must do something about it."
But he never elaborated on how oversight of companies like Enron, or their accounting firms, should change.
And just minutes later, addressing workers at the Walker Machinery Company here about the economy and his campaign against terrorism, Mr. Bush returned to one of his favorite themes: that the government overregulates the economy and should let up on American companies so they are freer to act as they see fit. He said the government should "not overregulate those who are trying to create work." 
As Mr. Bush spoke today, new details were emerging about shredded documents at the company's headquarters. Enron said in federal court that a second batch of shredded documents was found on Monday night in a trash receptacle at the company's headquarters. 
Enron officials said they knew nothing about the destruction of the documents and they insisted that the company had repeatedly ordered employees not to destroy documents after a series of lawsuits and federal investigations began looking into the collapse of the company last October and November. Destroying documents that are relevant to those investigations or to lawsuits against the company and its executives would be a crime.
But lawyers representing shareholders and employees said they doubted that explanation. "This cannot be tolerated," said William Lerach, an attorney in a class-action suit against Enron and Andersen, pointing to a box of shredded Enron documents that he brought to the court hearing. "The integrity of the civil litigation system has been insulted."
He and others asked Judge Melinda Harmon of Federal District Court in Houston to seize the company's documents and put them under the guard of United States marshals. They argued that Enron and Andersen could not be trusted to turn over valuable evidence related to the case.
The court hearing came a day after a former Enron employee, Maureen Castaneda, said that she had found a box of shredded documents on the 19th floor of the Enron headquarters, the same floor where the company found additional evidence of shredding on Monday night. Ms. Castaneda, who was a director of foreign exchange at Enron until she was fired last week, said she took a box home to use the confetti as packing material. She said the box contained shards of paper referring to some of the secret Enron partnerships that are at the center of the accounting scandal that forced the company into bankruptcy protection.
Efforts to reach Ms. Castaneda today were unsuccessful. The company said that it was now cooperating with federal investigators and that company lawyers had interviewed several workers on the 19th floor about document shredding.
"Until yesterday, the company believed the process was working and was completely observed," Kenneth Marks, a lawyer for Enron, said today. "We don't know what happened here. There could be completely innocent explanations for this."
Rusty Hardin, a lawyer for Andersen, criticized the opposing lawyers for drumming up publicity with television interviews Monday night, a day ahead of the scheduled hearing. Mr. Hardin said lawyers for Andersen were working hard to preserve and recover documents.
"We are not suicidal," he said, gesturing toward Judge Harmon. "If we were shredders and not preserving documents you could run us out of business."
In an interview today, an Enron employee who works on the 19th floor confirmed that shredded material had filled a plastic bin beside the shredding machine for several weeks. He said that he had never seen anyone actually doing the shredding but that he had assumed it was taking place.
"It was obvious there was paper in the shredder," he said. "Probably recently."
He said the 19th floor is divided between a research division and payroll and accounting departments. The employee, who spoke on the condition that his name not be used, said he had not considered the evidence of shredding in a common room to be significant because accounting and payroll employees routinely destroy documents.
And he said that while company executives had sent three e-mail messages in October outlining restrictions on shredding, he had not interpreted those messages to be blanket prohibitions but instead were limited to documents related to the investigations. He said a fourth e-mail message sent on Jan. 14 was emphatic that all shredding cease.
Document shredding seems likely to be a main topic of the coming Congressional hearings. Tonight, the House Energy and Commerce Committee, preparing for its hearing on Thursday on shredding of documents by Andersen, Enron's auditors, was expected to subpoena four current or former Andersen officials: Joseph F. Berardino, the chief executive; Michael C. Odom, a partner in the firm's Houston office who was relieved of management responsibilities last week; Nancy Temple, a lawyer in the firm's Chicago headquarters; and Mr. Duncan, the lead partner on the Enron account.
Ms. Temple and Mr. Odom are expected to testify willingly, but Mr. Berardino and Mr. Duncan are resisting, investigators say, and Mr. Duncan may invoke his Fifth Amendment right, they said.
"Duncan remains an extremely recalcitrant witness who believes he ought to be able to take the Fifth by fax," said Representative James C. Greenwood, the Pennsylvania Republican who is chairman of the subcommittee that will hold the hearing. If Mr. Duncan does not at least show up to exercise his Fifth Amendment rights, Mr. Greenwood said, the subcommittee would consider citing him for contempt of Congress. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); SUBPOENAS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); ETHICS (77%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); BONDS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (71%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; STOCKS AND BONDS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SELF-INCRIMINATION 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (82%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DUNCAN, DAVID B; SANGER, DAVID E; BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%) TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) ; TEXAS; HOUSTON (TEX)

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2002 



708 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: THE POP LIFE; 
Incongruously, Moldova Samples the Club Scene

BYLINE:  By NEIL STRAUSS 

DATELINE: CHISINAU, Moldova 

 BODY:
Times are far from good here in the capital of Moldova, a tiny republic squeezed by Romania to the south and west and landlocked by Ukraine everywhere else. In an economy that has shrunk by 60 percent since the breakup of the Soviet Union a decade ago, the average Moldovan salary is between $25 and $45 a month, life expectancy has dropped by five years, and living conditions are abysmal.
 When Moldova is in the news it is usually for lurid tales like that of hospital workers selling human organs as meat to street vendors, or of the estimate that more than half of Europe's sex workers have been kidnapped from this country of 4.4 million. Considering that by comparison life in the Soviet Union now seems like the good old days, it is little surprise that last year Moldova became the first former Soviet state to vote the Communists back into power. 
 But step into the nightclub Soho, which opened last month just off the main street, Bulevardul Stefan cel Mare, and another world awaits. A state-of-the-art sound and light system propels four plush floors of revelers. Dancers costumed as Santa Claus, Teletubbies, ballerinas and teddy bears run rampant through the main floor, jumping off ledges, throwing each other in the air and grabbing clubgoers. An M.C. shouts exhortations from the stage, and a D.J. from Ukraine plays the latest American, European and Russian dance music (most of it downloaded illicitly from the Internet and burned onto CD's).
Above the bar, a shirtless customer dangles upside down from a metal rod as a bartender tries to pour a drink down his throat. Nearby, a woman gyrates in a crow's nest below an extensive catwalk that encircles the club. A hidden stairwell on the glass-filled top level leads to a secret fifth floor, where a luxurious private room (and bedroom) is reserved for the club's owners and their guests.
Though Soho is the most modern-looking club in Chisinau (pronounced KISH-e-now), it may not be for long. Promoters estimate that six new discos will open in the city by spring. "Between now and May, there will be a lot of changes in the nightlife in Chisinau," said Eugene Kara, one of the managers of another club that opened last month, Studio 01. "It's like a revolution."
At Studio 01, five minutes from Soho, is a first for Chisinau: the daunting red velvet ropes that are nearly ubiquitous at trendy lounges in New York. In a back room in the basement club, managers watch the front entrance through security cameras, making or breaking a local's night out by radioing the bouncer with orders to admit or deny. Mr. Kara said there were three types of people he did not let in: "no mafia, no people with fat stomachs and no punks." He then added a fourth category: "people who just want to sit around and look at girls." 
Studio 01 is a smaller affair than Soho, a darkened room with couches, tables and television screens surrounding a sunken dance floor. On a recent weekend, D.J. Yarik from Moscow was playing downtempo dance beats while a saxophonist stood nearby, improvising to the music. 
Some people, Mr. Kara acknowledges, are upset and frustrated with the club's door policy. "There aren't enough of the right kind of people in this city," he said, pledging to school the city in contemporary trends and fashion.
In a society undergoing great upheaval as the government tries to Russify the country (which has bobbled back and forth between Russia and Romania for centuries), club managers are trying to pull the youth in another direction. "We want to change the mentality of our people," said Alexander Peklo, a manager at Soho. "We want them to be closer to Europe and the U.S.A. -- in club style and music. And right now they're very far away, so it has to happen slowly, step by step."
Of course, as in any European city, American franchises have already come and conquered. On Bulevardul Stefan cel Mare, there is a McDonald's and a Benetton, but prices are so steep that, local businessmen say, many families dine at McDonald's only on special occasions and only about 30 families can afford to shop at Benetton.
"It's very hard living here," said Peter Oganesean, a bartender at Citi, a club where patrons may be techno-dancing one minute and joining hands for a traditional circle dance the next. "We have a lot of problems, but this new generation is more optimistic. They're learning different languages and economics. They just want to make their lives better. So they work very hard every day, and at night they want to relax and go to clubs. We lived 50 years with Communism and saw how Americans and Europeans lived so much better." He paused. "Now the president and Parliament are Communist again, but that's O.K."
There are other hypotheses about the nightclub boom. "People say, 'You're such a poor country, how do you have so much entertainment and clubs now?' " said Mr. Peklo of Soho. The answer, he said, is in the class divide that followed the fall of Communism: the poor grew more destitute, and a few people grew extremely rich. So though opening a nightclub in such an economy is hardly a get-rich-quick scheme, the lawyers and businessmen who started Soho (at a cost they put at about $500,000) and the much smaller rock club Black Elephant: The Underground Club, where a bust of Frank Zappa adorns the entryway, say they're just trying to bring modern culture and entertainment to their lives and city. Even Moldova's best band, Zdob si Zdub -- which combines punk-rock, Moldovan folk and Balkan brass-band music -- has performed more in Moscow than in its home country. 
"There are a lot of talented Moldovan musicians," Mr. Oganesean said. "But if you play Moscow, you make money. If you play Chisinau, you don't make any money."
Not one club owner said that his club was as full as it could be or making much money. Ciornaia Karacatita (which translates as Black Octopus), a nightspot that caters to an over-30 crowd, has been having a particularly tough time. 
"Originally, the club was for very rich people who could pay the $20 entrance fee," said Dimitri Shoimu, a manager and maitre d'hotel. "These days, business is bad; you know the situation in our country. Now it's $5. And business is worse." The club even had to close its casino last month, because new taxes made it too expensive to run.
Mr. Shoimu paused, then gestured toward the six people on the dance floor, swaying alongside giant Day-Glo decorations of undersea life (including, of course, a giant black octopus).
Optimism, however, seems to run as rampant as new clubs in this country. Smiling and looking at Mr. Peklo from Soho, Mr. Shoimu added, "But our manager said he'd invest some money to kill the competition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Costumed dancers keep the beat at Soho, one of several nightclubs to open recently in Chisinau, capital of Moldova. (Neil Strauss/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (86%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); BALLET (71%); DANCE (71%); DANCERS (71%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (70%); MUSIC GENRES (64%); MUSIC (50%) NIGHTCLUBS AND CABARETS 

ORGANIZATION: SOHO (CHISINAI, MOLDOVA, NIGHTCLUB) 

PERSON: STRAUSS, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UKRAINE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) MOLDOVA; CHISINAU (MOLDOVA)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



709 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: City's Welfare Rolls 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Joyce Purnick writes (Metro Matters column, Jan. 21), "The city's Independent Budget Office reported last week that welfare rolls grew by several thousand in October and November for first time in six years, and predicted that they would continue to rise for the next several months." 
 This might suggest that the Independent Budget Office based its estimate of what will happen to the city's welfare roll in the coming months on statistics from October and November. 
But as we say in our recent report, "I.B.O. bases its projection of a rising welfare roll on the assumption that the city will lose about 130,000 jobs before its economy picks up again in the summer of 2002."
Making projections can be controversial. But making these projections is what the Independent Budget Office must do to fulfill its role of keeping New Yorkers informed about important fiscal issues.

DOUG TURETSKY
Communications Director
N.Y.C. Independent Budget Office
New York, Jan. 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) WELFARE (US) 

ORGANIZATION: INDEPENDENT BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: TURETSKY, DOUG; PURNICK, JOYCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



710 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: In Trade Issue, the Pressure Is on Flowers 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
Congress's failure to renew an unusual antinarcotics program that used flowers to fight drugs means that tariffs are now being collected on roses, carnations and certain other products imported from four South American nations for the first time in a decade.
 So far, the additional cost of the tariffs -- about 5 cents a rose -- has not generally found its way into the retail prices of fresh flowers, and the supply of imports has remained steady. But with Valentine's Day three weeks away, florists say that some of the extra cost may be passed on to consumers. 
 If the tariffs are not lifted soon, said Steve Neubauer, president of the Independent Florists' Association, "we may see some adjustment in prices." 
Congressional leaders say that in the new session that began yesterday, they will again try to remove the tariffs by extending a trade pact with the four Andean nations, Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. The pact was set up to use economic development to counter narcotics trafficking.
To give some impetus to what is considered to be a fairly remote issue in a time of pressing national matters, the extension may be packaged with three other Bush administration priorities, including the trade promotion, or fast-track, authority bill. All four may go to the floor for a final vote at the same time, perhaps in early March. 
In the last session of Congress, a similar piggybacking strategy backfired when a six-month extension of the Andean trade bill was tucked into an economic stimulus package being considered in the Senate. The stimulus package was held up, and the trade pact expired on Dec. 4. 
After a period of confusion over what to do about the tariffs, customs officials in the United States began collecting the duties at ports of entry late last year. Importers now pay a 6.8 percent tariff on Colombian roses, which arrive in Miami and other major ports. All other flowers from the Andean nations come in under a 6.4 percent levy, except for miniature carnations, for which a 3.2 percent duty is charged. 
"The vast majority of the people I speak to are just going to absorb the extra costs," Mr. Neubauer said. "Given the state of the economy, there's a great deal of sensitivity about price." 
California still produces a substantial crop of seasonal roses, but more than 80 percent of the fresh roses sold in the United States come from Colombia. The growth in Colombian exports has taken place largely in the decade since 1991, when the the Andean Trade Preference Act was passed.
The legislation was intended to encourage people in rural parts of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to produce legitimate market goods, like fresh flowers, instead of the coca leaves and poppies used to make cocaine and opium. 
The trade deal also reduces tariffs on certain textiles and on asparagus. Peru's asparagus crop is being harvested now, and the country's ambassador in Washington, Allan Wagner, has said that the expiration of trade preferences may drive some poor Peruvian farmers back to growing coca.
While it is clear that the trade pact has not made the narcotics problem disappear, enough progress has been made for a number of influential members of Congress to back the idea of extending the pact and expanding it to include more goods, like canned tuna from Ecuador and a greater variety of textiles. 
An extension of the pact until 2005 -- when the Free Trade Area of the Americas is supposed to be ready -- was approved by the House last year. A similar measure in the Senate was released from committee but never made it to a floor vote.
If the pact is renewed in this session, it will be retroactive to Dec. 4, and the duties now being collected on Colombian roses and other goods would be refunded. 
Peter J. Moran, executive vice president of the Society of American Florists, said he had received assurances from Senator Tom Daschle, the majority leader, that the issue would not be overlooked this session. "They told us that this will be one of their priorities when they return," Mr. Moran said. "We'll have to wait and see."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG POLICY (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); FLORISTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); OPIUM (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); COCAINE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%) FLOWERS AND PLANTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; COCAINE AND CRACK COCAINE; OPIUM; ROSES; CARNATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); VALENTINE'S DAY; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: ;DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ECUADOR (93%); BOLIVIA (93%); PERU (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%) UNITED STATES; BOLIVIA; COLOMBIA; ECUADOR

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



711 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Optimism needs a warning label when it comes to forecasting productivity.

BYLINE:  By Jeff Madrick; Jeff Madrick is the editor of Challenge Magazine and of a new journal of social health, Indicators. Both publications are based in Armonk, N.Y. He is an adjunct professor of humanities at Cooper Union. E-mail: challenge@mesharpe.com.

 BODY:
ONE tantalizing question in economics these days is whether productivity will rise as rapidly after this recession as it did in the late 1990's. If productivity -- the output of the economy per hour of work -- grows robustly, so will the economy. But if it does not, wages will not rise rapidly, profits will be weaker, and federal revenue will be much lower than expected. America may again find itself in a state of political confusion and disarray, just as it did in the slow-growing era from 1973 to 1995.
 At first glance, a few new studies on productivity's future suggest that there is ample reason to be optimistic. For example, two Federal Reserve economists, Stephen D. Oliner and Dan E. Sichel, say the range of productivity growth is likely to be 2 to 2.75 percent a year in coming years. From 1995 and 2001, productivity grew by roughly 2.3 percent a year. 
 Dale W. Jorgenson and Mun S. Ho of Harvard and Kevin J. Stiroh of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York say it could grow 2.25 percent a year, but they offer a wider range of 1.3 percent to 3 percent. A former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Martin N. Baily, says the range is likely to be 2 to 2.5 percent.
But when we look beneath the headlines, we find that this optimism is based on some fairly grand assumptions. If these are only slightly disappointing, productivity growth could be significantly lower than had been forecast.
First, the midrange conclusions of these studies assume that semiconductor and computer prices will continue to fall at the same stunning pace they did in the late 1990's, or at worst, not much more slowly. Can the industry keep up this level of innovation? Not everyone thinks it can.
Second, the studies assume that while investment in high technology may have been overenthusiastic in the 1990's, it will resume at a robust pace once the recession passes. A reason this is important is because a large part of the nation's total productivity gain in the 1990's was concentrated in the makers, not the users, of computer hardware, software and telecommunications equipment. If their sales growth tapers off, so will the entire economy's productivity. But some observers argue that business and home users already have more computer power than they need.
Third, most of these studies do not allow for the impact of cyclical demand. But, writes Mr. Baily, now at the Institute for International Economics, such rising demand may well have been an important cause of capital investment in high technology as sales and profits rose. And that demand benefited from loosening monetary policy, an unusually high dollar, which kept foreign capital coming in and inflation down, and soaring stock prices.
In addition, rising productivity in wholesale and retail trade, apparently a big source of productivity gains outside computers, was probably highly dependent on rapidly rising demand for goods. And rising productivity in the securities business, another big source of the nation's productivity gains, was particularly dependent on the soaring stock market. Will that recur?
So Mr. Baily is among the less optimistic of the productivity watchers unless demand keeps rising rapidly. But even his own modest forecast depends on counting productivity differently from most others. He says the Bureau of Labor Statistics' productivity data, based on estimates of production in the economy, are not necessarily accurate. Estimates of income, the other side of the financial statement, suggest more rapid productivity gains in the 1980's and 1990's. Mr. Baily averages the two. Again, by no means does everyone agree.
If these assumptions do not fall into place, it is entirely possible that productivity will grow over time by less than 2 percent. Mr. Oliner and Mr. Sichel's lower estimate of 2 percent, for example, would be significantly too high if computer prices fell only as fast as in the early 1990's while the portion of capital investment in high technology slowed even moderately. If Mr. Baily's estimate were put on a consistent basis with the other estimates, his lower limit would be significantly less than 2 percent a year. And such growth is far less than what the Congressional Budget Office is forecasting to determine future federal surpluses.
One lasting contribution of these studies, however, is that they help further puncture the romanticism about the new economy. The Oliner-Sichel study, for example, sees little benefit to purchasers of computers from "network effects," externalities, or increasing economies of scale. In other words, just because one company buys a computer does not mean that the productivity of other companies, even if they already have computers, will also rise.
On the other hand, a study by the McKinsey Global Institute concludes that there were such additional gains in productivity. But McKinsey says many of those came from managerial and organization innovations, like Wal-Mart's popular "big store" in retailing.
As Mr. Baily notes, such a conclusion is grounds for optimism. It suggests that future productivity is not completely dependent on how much companies invest in high technology, but on how innovative our companies can be across the board.
Thus, the nation has its work cut out for it. Government must maintain stable policies that sustain growth. Our companies must remain innovative and competitive. Antitrust policies probably need to be more closely enforced. In addition, in my view, investment funds cannot be wasted in rampant overspeculation, fed by opaque information from corporations and deliberate obfuscation by Wall Street. And, I would add, public investment in education, health care, infrastructure and research must be reinvigorated. Public investment is an area mainstream economists all too readily neglect at the nation's peril.
One immediate source of optimism should be taken with a grain of salt, however. Productivity has risen about 1.5 percent in the current recession, which has never happened before in the post-World War II period. But there have also never before been such harsh employment practices. Expendable temporary workers and the ease with which companies lay workers off are important sources of this productivity performance. They are not necessarily sources of long-term economic strength.

GRAPHIC: Photo: High technology's impact on productivity may be greatest in high technology. Greg Duhon, an engineer at the Internet service provider NetZero, checks the network. (Kim Kulish for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (73%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); RETAIL SALES (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (55%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: MADRICK, JEFF; OLINER, STEPHEN D; SICHEL, DAN E; JORGENSON, DALE W; HO, MUN S; STIROH, KEVIN J; BAILY, MARTIN N 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



712 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Optimistic Earnings Reports Lift Chip Makers

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
Earnings reports from chip makers over the last two days have bolstered hopes for a recovery and pushed an index of semiconductor stocks 4.3 percent higher. 
 While dreary compared with the fourth quarter of 2000, the reports from several smaller manufacturers of chips and chip-making equipment nonetheless generally met or beat Wall Street's expectations. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index gained 21.41 today, to 520.54, on announcements from Novellus and others. 
 LSI Logic, which makes customized microchips for communications networks, typified the mix of good and bad news. After markets closed today, the company said fourth-quarter sales fell by nearly half from a year earlier, to $406 million, and it reported a loss of $74 million, or 20 cents a share. But the loss was 4 cents a share narrower than analysts had expected, and the company predicted increased sales of as much as 3 percent this quarter and a return to profit in the second half of the year.
STMicroelectronics, the European chip maker, reported Tuesday that earnings and sales matched analysts' estimates. Despite a prediction that its slump would continue into this quarter, its shares rose 4.2 percent, to $30.76, today.
Fairchild Semiconductor reported a 31 percent year-over-year decline in sales Tuesday, but posted an unexpected profit and said bookings improved in its communications, computing, displays and industrial businesses. The book-to-bill ratio was above 1, a sign of a growing market, for the second consecutive quarter.
"We continue to believe that we saw the low point for our trade sales in the third quarter and that we are moving through the early stages of a market recovery," said Kirk Pond, the president and chief executive. 
Manufacturers of chip-making equipment led the rally after a trade group said late Tuesday that the industry's sales in December rose from the previous month for the first time in a year. The group, Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International, said the industry reported December sales of $834.9 million and new orders of $652.4 million, for a book-to-bill ratio of 0.78. The ratio improved from 0.73 in November.
Novellus, an equipment maker, reported fourth-quarter profits on Tuesday that declined 81 percent and said it would report a wider-than-expected loss for the current quarter. But in an example of investor optimism, its shares rose $3.42, or 9 percent, today to close at $39.65.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTORS (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); ELECTRONICS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); NEW ORDERS (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (79%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; STOCKS AND BONDS; SALES; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT & MATERIALS INTERNATIONAL INC (64%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (57%); LSI CORP (57%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PHILADELPHIA STOCK EXCHANGE; LSI LOGIC INC; STMICROELECTRONICS NV; FAIRCHILD SEMICONDUCTOR INTERNATIONAL CORP; NOVELLUS; SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS INTERNATIONAL

TICKER: LSI (NASDAQ) (57%); STM (PAR) (55%); STM (NYSE) (55%); STM (BIT) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



713 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: KABUL; 
At Long Last, Paychecks for Afghan Civil Servants

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan, Jan. 22 

 BODY:
It is payday at long last in Afghanistan, and after months of penury the lucky few are taking home their first wages since last July dreaming of simple things.
 "First of all, I'll repay all the people I borrowed from," said Muhammad Rahim, an accountant in the Finance Ministry. 
 Mr. Rahim moonlighted as a laborer to earn money for his family during the six months that Afghanistan's government did not pay salaries. 
He also sold off his car, furniture and television set.
Asked what he would buy with what was left after paying his debts, Mr. Rahim said, "Food, food, food."
What if there is still a bit left for luxuries?
"I would like to buy books for my children," Mr. Rahim said. "I don't want them to grow up illiterate."
Paying government workers is a small step in Afghanistan's long climb to normality. But it was deeply encouraging to people here, who worked for five years under the Taliban only to learn that its leaders had looted the central bank before they skipped town.
"We have found hope with the new government," said Shah Jihan, a clerk at the Finance Ministry.
On Tuesday, the government paid monthly salaries to 1,381 workers in Kabul, with the typical salary being about $45 a month.
By the end of this week it plans to pay $8 million in wages to 219,000 civil servants throughout the country. It does not yet have the money to pay soldiers. Nor can it pay the overdue salaries.
The Taliban stopped paying workers even before the United States bombing campaign began last October because of economic woes caused by drought and internecine fighting.
"This is only a start," said Abdul Qadeer Fitrat, the acting governor of the central bank. "But we're optimistic that more money will start flowing into the country."
The country desperately needs it. Before the Taliban fled the capital in November, they stole millions of dollars from the vault at the central bank. When Northern Alliance troops pried open the door, they found less than $150,000 worth of afghanis, the local currency.
The Taliban left behind five-foot-high piles of cash. Officials say that was only because it was in small denominations and too heavy to carry.
"Our country lost its dignity because of them," said Abdul Zahir, the guardian of the vault.
The cash used to pay this month's salaries was printed in Moscow during the time that Burhanuddin Rabbani was president of Afghanistan. It was in a Moscow warehouse when the Taliban seized Kabul in 1996 and was finally delivered here last week in three cargo planes.
Mr. Fitrat said future payments would be made with money from a startup fund donated by the United States, Britain and other countries. That account, supervised by the United Nations, contains about $10 million, short of the $20 million the United Nations had hoped to raise.
This week in Tokyo, international donors also pledged more than $4.5 billion to Afghanistan, which has been ravaged by 23 years of war. But that money is aimed at long-term reconstruction rather than the government's immediate expenses.
To pay all the back salaries to the civil servants and the military, Mr. Fitrat estimated that the government would need $200 million to $250 million. The United Nations recently appealed for an additional $80 million to fortify the startup fund.
Mr. Fitrat said the government hoped to generate income from taxes, license fees and interest rates. The Taliban abolished the charging of interest on the ground that it violated Islamic principles.
In a country where computers are as rare as nightclubs, the transfer of money today was charmingly old-fashioned. Tellers handed huge sacks of bills to cashiers from the ministries. They slung the sacks over their shoulders and made for the exit.
Shir Ali, the bag carrier for the Finance Ministry, hauled his red and white sack containing 290 million afghanis -- $10,700 at current exchange rates -- across a busy traffic circle, dodging trucks and horse-drawn carts.
When Mr. Ali arrived, he was hustled into a room as a crowd of employees milled restively outside.
"They're paying all the ministries before ours," one man said as he paced angrily up and down the hall. The Finance Ministry, not surprisingly, was among the first to be paid.
Nur Muhammad, a comptroller, asserted that as a 30-year employee of the ministry he deserved prompt payment. "My house burned down," he said. "My health is poor. I need the money."
For the most part, though, people here responded with equanimity to the long wait for their paychecks. "God willing, I can see the light at the end of the tunnel," said Mr. Rahim, the accountant.
Shah Jihan stood contentedly with a colleague, putting together his first shopping list in six months. It included flour, cooking oil and tea. Goaded by his friend, he threw in a few discretionary items: mattresses, pillows and perhaps a carpet.
"We should buy what we need before we start thinking about luxuries," Mr. Jihan said with a smile.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Kabul on Tuesday, the Central Bank began cashing paychecks for civilian employees of the Afghan government. It does not yet have the money for soldiers' pay, or for salaries that are months overdue. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALIBAN (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); HIJACKING (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); CIVIL WAR (69%); TRENDS (68%); TERRORISM (63%); AIRLINES (61%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (61%); GOVERNORS (52%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; WAGES AND SALARIES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN AID 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP); UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: ;LANDLER, MARK; FITRAT, ABDUL QADEER 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); KABUL (AFGHANISTAN); GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



714 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: City Reviewing Investment Strategy for Its Pensions 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
The pension funds for New York City's firefighters, teachers, police officers and other workers lost $109 million in Enron investments and $25 million in Kmart investments, leading the city comptroller to say yesterday that he was considering a change in how the funds invest.
 In recent years the city's pension funds have invested more money in index funds, which generally track whole segments of the stock market, and the city has relied less on money managers to actively monitor investment funds and consider other factors in buying and selling stock. But the comptroller, William C. Thompson, who took office Jan. 1, said the heavy blow delivered by the collapse of Enron and the plummeting stock price of Kmart, which were both companies included in the index funds' investments, was leading him to review that strategy. 
 Mr. Thompson said that while index funds charge smaller fees than actively managed funds, and many had done well over time, they lacked "aggressive, or active managers, who will say, 'Oops, look at this,' and will bail out of a situation if they start looking at it as it deteriorates." 
New York State's pension fund system also suffered because of its investments in the two companies. But while the state's pension system, at $112 billion, is larger than the city's $77 billion system, the state lost less money: $58 million on investments in Enron and $17 million on investments in Kmart, according to figures provided by State Comptroller H. Carl McCall's office. 
The state sold its remaining Kmart stock on Friday, when shares closed at $1.74 each, said Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for Mr. McCall. The city's funds still hold 1,772,895 shares of Kmart common stock. Kmart filed for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, and it was priced at 89 cents a share at the end of trading yesterday. Marc Kalech, a spokesman for Mr. Thompson, said the city's pension funds held on to so many Kmart shares because the pension system's index funds held on to the shares. He did not say which funds held the stock.
The S & P 500, one of the most popular indexes, announced last Wednesday that it was dropping Kmart.
On the Enron front, the city is going to court to try to recoup the $109 million its funds lost.
The city joined forces with Florida, whose pension system lost $306 million in Enron investments, and filed papers on Jan. 14 in Federal District Court in Houston seeking to be named the lead plaintiffs in a class action suit against the Enron Corporation and several of its top executives.
Pension funds around the nation lost money in the Enron collapse, and a number of municipalities and investors are seeking to be named lead plaintiff in the suit against Enron. Michael A. Cardozo, the city's corporation counsel, said that in class action securities suits, the investors who could show that they lost the most were usually named the lead plaintiffs. A suit brought jointly by Florida and New York City could claim $415 million in losses. 
"Both Florida and the N.Y.C. funds are prepared to commit all of the personnel and resources necessary to adequately manage this litigation," Leslie A. Conason, an assistant corporation counsel, wrote in an affidavit filed with the court.
Mr. Thompson, the city comptroller, said that his office was working with the corporation counsel to bring the suit. 
"The fact that people were misled and information was denied, that's the reason that you'd wind up suing," he said. "Based on that situation -- that's what made Enron so different from other things, the fact that information wasn't made public, that things were concealed, and that accounting that was done wasn't accurate. That is something that stockholders have a right to."
New York City has five pension funds, for teachers, firefighters, police officers, city employees, and other Board of Education workers. The city comptroller sits on the boards of four of the funds, and serves as investment adviser and custodian to all five. Under the previous comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi, the funds increased the use of index funds for buying stock, and during the stock market boom of the late 1990's, the funds prospered, earning more than had been anticipated. But like other investment funds, and many private 401(k) plans, the funds have suffered during the recent recession. 
Mr. Thompson said that it was too soon to tell how much more money the city might have to contribute to the funds to offset losses in the market. But he said that he would speak to the trustees of all five funds about the possibility of relying less on indexes and on looking for long-term investments.
"The one thing is that you look at pension systems over an extended period of time -- you are a long-term investor," he said. "It is not just what happens today, it is what happens next year, 5 years, 10 years down the road that you're most interested in, and providing stable returns for all the members of the pension system."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Comptroller William C. Thompson, who appeared before reporters yesterday with Public Advocate Betsy Gotbaum, said yesterday that he might change the way the city's five pension funds make investments. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); CLASS ACTIONS (88%); LITIGATION (84%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); COMMON STOCK (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); STOCK INDEX CHANGES (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: MIKE THOMPSON (79%) COOPER, MICHAEL; THOMPSON, WILLIAM C JR (COMPTROLLER) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



715 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: New Murder Trial Begins In 1981 Killing of Doctor 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH 

 BODY:
More than 20 years after a Manhattan doctor was fatally shot in Washington Heights, prosecutors began a fresh attempt yesterday to convict one of the two men they say killed him.
 The defendant, Daryl Whitley, is on trial for the second time in the killing of Dr. John Chase Wood Jr., who was shot to death on Nov. 2, 1981, in a botched robbery attempt as he returned to Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center after visiting his wife, who was five months pregnant. Mr. Whitley's first trial, in late 1997, ended in a hung jury, and the man charged as his accomplice was later acquitted. 
 In opening statements in State Supreme Court in Manhattan yesterday, an assistant district attorney, Joel J. Seidemann, said the prosecution would be built on testimony from Mr. Whitley's former friends and acquaintances who say he confessed his role in the crime to them. "It was in essence the neighborhood's worst-kept secret," Mr. Seidemann told the jury.
Mr. Whitley's lawyer, Michael Yucevicius, said those witnesses were convicted criminals who stood to gain by implicating Mr. Whitley. After Mr. Whitley's first trial, the jury foreman said concern about the credibility of the witnesses was the main factor in the jury's inability to reach a verdict.
Mr. Whitley, standing near a coffee shop outside the courthouse yesterday during a break in the trial, professed his innocence. "I have nothing to hide," he said, adding that he was speaking against the advice of his lawyer. "Whoever did this crime deserves to pay, but they didn't catch the right people."
Mr. Whitley was arrested in 1995 and detained at Rikers Island until his release in 1998 after the mistrial. "This case just about killed me," he said.
Prosecutors said Dr. Wood was confronted at West 165th Street and Riverside Drive by a man who demanded his money and threatened him. Dr. Wood, who had only $5 and some credit cards in his wallet, tried to escape, but was shot twice, the first shot grazing his collarbone, the second going through his heart. Dr. Wood, who had just turned 31, died shortly afterward at Columbia-Presbyterian, after his colleagues made desperate efforts to save his life. 
In his opening remarks, Mr. Seidemann said that after an accomplice shot Dr. Wood, Mr. Whitley turned to him and said, "Why did you have to do this?" Mr. Seidemann told jurors that the accomplice was Patrick R. McDowell, who was acquitted of murder in 1996 and of a lesser murder charge in 1997.
Prosecutors said yesterday that the only witness to the slaying in 1981 was a woman who was 20 to 30 feet away and walking home from the hospital with her 5-month-old baby in a stroller. But she did not identify Mr. Whitley's picture after he was arrested in 1995. There were no fingerprints or other physical evidence.
For years after the slaying there was little progress in the investigation. But a detective in the 34th Precinct, Jerry Giorgio, persisted, interviewing potential witnesses living near the crime scene. In 1994, his work led to the arrest of Mr. McDowell, an unemployed janitor from Washington Heights who had spent 10 of the previous 13 years in prison for another murder. A year later, the police arrested Mr. Whitley.
Mr. Seidemann said he would introduce a new witness, a man who was close to the crime scene but only briefly glimpsed the assailants. He also said the case would be built primarily on accounts from former friends and acquaintances of Mr. Whitley, who would describe conversations in which he confessed his role in the killing. 
Mr. Yucevicius, echoing the themes of the defense in Mr. Whitley's first trial, said the people who said Mr. Whitley had confessed were convicted felons who had been pressured to implicate him in exchange for help in their own cases. Some of them had lied to judges in previous criminal proceedings, he said. One of them "may be under the belief that he will go to jail unless he implicates Mr. Whitley," he added.
"The prosecution's proof in this case comes from the words of informants who are not worthy of your belief," Mr. Yucevicius told the jury.
Mr. Whitley is charged with second-degree murder, and faces 25 years to life in prison if convicted, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan district attorney's office said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (91%); MURDER (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); VERDICTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); ACQUITTAL (89%); MISTRIAL (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS 

PERSON: WORTH, ROBERT F; WHITLEY, DARYL; WOOD, JOHN CHASE JR (DR); MCDOWELL, PATRICK R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



716 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian Troops Kill Leader of a Province's Separatist Group 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Thursday, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Indonesian troops shot and killed the commander of the separatist Aceh Liberation Movement in a raid on his jungle headquarters in Aceh, a rebellious province on the northern tip of the island of Sumatra, the military announced today.
 The death of the commander, Tengku Abdullah Syafei, in a firefight with the Indonesian soldiers on Tuesday is expected to be cited by the army as an important victory, coming fast on the order by President Megawati Sukarnoputri to take bolder measures to stamp out Aceh's 25-year-old independence movement. 
 But the increasingly violent fighting in the province, where an estimated 1,500 people were killed last year, has alienated ordinary Acehnese from the Indonesian armed forces. A study last year by the nonpartisan International Crisis Group reported that if the Acehnese were asked to choose between autonomy from the central government and outright independence, they would choose independence. 
According to accounts by the Indonesian military today, Mr. Syafei, 46, was shot in the thigh and chest Tuesday morning during a 30-minute battle with soldiers in Pidie about 80 miles east of the provincial capital, Banda Aceh. His body and that of one of his wives, Aisyah Umar, were identified by relatives at a hospital on Wednesday afternoon, the accounts said.
A spokesman for the liberation movement, commonly known by its Indonesian acronym, GAM, confirmed that Mr. Syafei had been killed. Other members of the movement vowed that his death would inspire Acehnese to join its armed wing, which was run by Mr. Syafei.
The movement is considered to hold sway over large areas of Aceh's territory, which contain much of Indonesia's oil and natural gas exports. ExxonMobil, which runs oil fields in Aceh, had to close operations last year because of the unrest, and only recently resumed.
The Indonesian military has been accused of serious human rights abuses in quashing the rebels. The Bush administration, like its predecessors, has opposed the breakup of Indonesia and has discouraged independence movements in Aceh and in the eastern most area of Irian Jaya. But late last year, the United States Embassy here released a statement urging Mrs. Megawati's government to embrace the people of Aceh by protecting their human rights.
The statement was interpreted as an effort to warn the Indonesian military that it would be difficult for the Bush administration to persuade Congress to provide money for training for the army if human rights abuses continued in Aceh.
The military wing of the liberation movement has been shrouded in mystery. Mr. Syafei was known as a charismatic figure but he rarely granted interviews and was hardly ever seen. His troops are said to number between 15,000 and 27,000, but only a few thousand are said to have modern firearms.
In an effort to quell the violence, the prior Indonesian president, Abdurrahman Wahid, offered broad autonomy to Aceh, saying this would alleviate the political and economic exploitation of the province by the central government. But the gesture was interpreted in Aceh as halfhearted. Peace talks broke down and the fighting increased. 
The issue of Islam versus Christianity, which is at the center of other conflicts in Indonesia, has not played a major role in Aceh. The province embraced Islam in the 16th century and has practiced a conservative brand of the religion ever since. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPARATISM & SECESSION (94%); ARMED FORCES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (67%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (63%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (63%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (56%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: SYAFEI, TENGKU ABDULLAH; PERLEZ, JANE 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%) INDONESIA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%) INDONESIA; ACEH PROVINCE (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



717 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters; 
Pataki Takes Roosevelts To Heart

BYLINE:  By JOYCE PURNICK 

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
DISCUSSING his new budget on Tuesday, Gov. George E. Pataki stood before a portrait of his favorite predecessor, Teddy Roosevelt, inviting inevitable comparisons.
 The governor was being "very Teddy," one Republican said, "so optimistic." 
 No, said another, that makes him more like F.D.R. 
George Pataki as Franklin Delano Roosevelt? Let's not get carried away.
But the governor's new budget proposal does prove, if there was still any doubt, that he is not the same Peekskill Republican who was elected in 1994.
He has moved far enough leftward to make Democrats here squirm. It dawned on them that Mr. Pataki proposed an unexpectedly gentle election-year budget that keeps pain to a minimum, protects labor and relies heavily on budgetary gimmicks straight out of the Democratic playbook. 
Even the leading Democrat here, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, was reduced to stating the obvious, that Mr. Pataki was "kicking off his re-election campaign." Mr. Silver kept saying he wanted to make changes in the governor's proposal, including financing prekindergarten classes and blocking the governor from delaying a student scholarship program. But he couldn't explain where he would find the money.
The two Democrats who want to run against Mr. Pataki -- Comptroller H. Carl McCall and Andrew M. Cuomo -- were left sniping about budget gimmicks. But how can Democrats condemn tactics their party proudly practiced for so long?
Now this governor has proven his own dexterity, political as well as budgetary. He struck a health care deal that pays for medical programs and salary increases for health care workers in the union headed by the influential Dennis Rivera. Given this deal and the governor's trip with him to Puerto Rico last April to protest naval exercises on Vieques, Mr. Rivera, who usually supports Democrats, will not rule out supporting Mr. Pataki in November. (The union leader resigned from the Democratic National Committee yesterday, saying he had a time problem, not a party problem.)
In any case, it cannot hurt the governor's re-election chances that his proposed budget spends generously in a bad economy, sparing Mr. Rivera's membership hardships that seemed inevitable.
If the governor gets his way, bus and subway fares will not increase in the next year, nor will tuition at the city and state universities. No state workers will be laid off. And tax cuts will not be deferred, to the delight of Republican and Democratic lawmakers, who are also up for re-election.
Mr. Pataki's budget provides no increase in school aid, but now that he has taken care of health care workers, he may also be in a position to help public school teachers, using bond sales to make $204 million available to the New York City Board of Education in each of the next two years. The state would pay both the interest and principal.
HOW can the governor do this in a recession? The $88.6 billion budget plan is not profligate in its spending, but neither is it draconian, despite the anticipated gap of $5.1 billion.
Mr. Pataki has simply decided that the terrorism of Sept. 11 created an emergency, and so warranted extraordinary maneuvers and hopes. He proposes spending about 80 percent of the state's reserve fund that he set aside in fatter times, to use one-time income for expenses that will keep recurring, and to hope for federal dollars and an early end to the recession.
Not all of the federal money is certain by any means, and some may be needed for growing welfare rolls.
"It's a budget that calls for extraordinary measures to deal with extraordinary circumstances," the governor said, justifying his reliance on the rainy day fund. Between the recession and Sept. 11, "We didn't get a rainy day, but we got a monsoon."
What will happen next year, when the one-shots and rainy day funds are gone? Or if the number of welfare recipients increases more than expected? The governor is clearly betting that the recession, as some economists predict, will end halfway through the year and that state revenues will grow enough to compensate for the one-shots. "It's a gamble," one budget analyst said. "If he loses, next year's budget will be horrendous. In the meantime, it's good for the city and the state." And for Mr. Pataki's prospects next November.
A bold bet like that is not the fashion in conservative Peekskill, nor will it ever win favor with fiscal monitors. But it has been the style of the most famous governors in Albany, most notably the Republican as well as Democratic Roosevelt. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (86%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LAYOFFS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TUITION FEES (72%); EDUCATION FUNDING (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); TAX LAW (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (69%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (66%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (64%); HIJACKING (64%); AIRLINES (60%); BONDS (60%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM; ELECTION ISSUES 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS813940 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%); SIC8651 POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%) PURNICK, JOYCE; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



718 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: More Layoffs Are Expected In New Jersey 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
As New Jersey officials sent out layoff notices to 600 state employees today, top advisers to Gov. James E. McGreevey said that the administration expected to cut hundreds of additional jobs this year to close the state's budget gap.
 On Tuesday, Mr. McGreevey surprised many state employees, and even members of his own cabinet, when he first announced the layoffs during a town hall meeting at Montclair State University. 
 The governor mentioned the layoffs in such an offhand way, and released so few details about the plan, that the state's 76,000 employees were left to wonder what jobs might be affected and budget analysts could only guess how the job reductions might figure into the attempt to eliminate a $2.8 billion deficit.
Mr. McGreevey sought to answer some of those questions today by issuing a written statement saying that he had reluctantly authorized the layoffs because his commissioners said they were unable to provide the 5 percent budget cuts he had requested without reducing the size of their staffs.
Mr. McGreevey said the layoffs would affect nonunion middle-management positions in many departments. While the governor himself did not say whether he expected additional job reductions, his written statement said the layoffs would "begin the process of downsizing state government."
An administration official, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, said that hundreds of additional layoffs were possible and that a small number of those might involve unionized civil servants. 
Many details of the plan were still sketchy tonight. Because some of the employees receiving layoff notices have the right to move to a lower job classification, it is possible that the total number of workers cut from the state payroll could be slightly lower than 600 because some of the lower positions might be vacant.
Confusion over that issue, and the administration's reluctance to answer questions about the plan, led state Republicans this afternoon to question whether the layoffs were layoffs at all. 
Jeanette Hoffman, a spokeswoman for the state Republican chairman, Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., said that many of the 600 jobs Mr. McGreevey was referring to were held by workers who had been Republican political appointees during the administration of Gov. Christie Whitman and were now to be replaced by Democrats.
"The governor is sending mixed signals to taxpayers," Ms. Hoffman said. "He's portraying 600 nonunion layoffs as deep spending cuts without specifying the amount that taxpayers are going to save or how many will really be eliminated. Our question is: is Governor McGreevey truly cutting 600 positions like he says he is? Or is he going to turn around and fill the jobs with his Democratic allies?"
But the governor's office insisted that the majority of the jobs would indeed be eliminated and that the net effect would be to reduce the state's payroll by about $25 million.
Although Mr. McGreevey has been warning of deep budget cuts since the day he was elected, the layoffs are the most severe, and politically volatile, step he has taken.
At a meeting of the League of Municipalities today, the governor also told the state's mayors that the fiscal crisis was so severe that he could not increase their state aid this year.
New Jersey's tax revenues have dropped significantly this year as a result of the national recession and the fallout from the Sept. 11 terrorist attack.
But the state budget, approved five months before legislators faced re-election in the fall, was based on overoptimistic financial projections and included hundreds of millions of dollars in discretionary spending.
Not surprisingly, as the fiscal year draws closer to its June 30 completion and state officials are forced to choose between painful options, each party has sought to blame the problems on the other. 
Republicans have warned Mr. McGreevey not to break his campaign promise to oppose any tax increase and have accused the new governor of raising the cost of state construction projects by signing a bill that mandates that union contractors get preferential treatment. 
Mr. McGreevey, meanwhile, has missed few opportunities to assert that Republicans created the fiscal crisis.
His inaugural address alluded to what he called the irresponsible borrowing and runaway spending during the eight years Republicans held the governor's office. In his statement today about the layoffs, Mr. McGreevey reminded state residents that he had inherited the deficit. 
"Clearly, I do not want to assign blame or responsibility for the recession to any one individual or legislative body," his statement said. "Yet, I question the wisdom of unmitigated spending when a recession has been recognized."
Even as the administration sought to solve this year's shortfall, however, Mr. McGreevey's top budget advisers were warning that the 2003 and 2004 fiscal years were likely to bring bigger deficits and more drastic reductions in spending.
Anthony R. Coscia, the chairman of Mr. McGreevey's budget commission, said that rising pension costs and higher interest payments on state debt could result in a deficit of $5 billion or more by 2004.
"We could be in a situation where if the economy turns around, as we all hope it will," he said, "our money is already spent." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey answered questions from a number of mayors yesterday at a meeting of the State League of Municipalities in Trenton. (Christopher Barth for The New York Times)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



719 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Fair Local Phone Rates 

 BODY:
The New York Public Service Commission helped jump-start competition for local phone service yesterday when it ordered Verizon to further discount the wholesale rate at which it leases its lines to competing companies trying to enter the New York market. The move is not only beneficial to state consumers; it could be of vital importance to the nation's overall economy.
 In recent years, healthy competition has revolutionized the market for many telecommunications products, from long distance to cellphone services. Local service, however, remains a near-monopoly, firmly in the hands of the Baby Bells, including Verizon, that were created by the breakup of AT&T in 1984 and control the "last mile" of wire into consumers' homes and offices. Nationwide, competitors to the Baby Bells provide local service to less than 10 percent of all phone lines, and only 5 percent of all residential lines. 
 It was not supposed to end up that way. One of the goals of the landmark 1996 Telecommunications Act was to unleash the same competitive forces on the $110 billion market for local phone service that had previously transformed the long-distance market. The Baby Bells were meant to lease parts of their networks to competitors for a "reasonable and just" wholesale rate. In return, the legislation allowed the Baby Bells to enter the long-distance market.
The danger now is that the bargain at the heart of the law will be betrayed -- that the Baby Bells will be able to provide long-distance service without honoring their obligation to open their home markets to real competition. Last month, however, proponents of competition finally had reason to cheer. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia asked the Federal Communications Commission to reconsider its decision to allow SBC, a local phone company, to provide long-distance service in Oklahoma and Kansas. The court found that SBC was not keeping its side of the bargain imposed by the Telecommunications Act, since the wholesale prices it charged new entrants in the local market were too high to allow effective competition.
That is the same issue the Public Service Commission has wrestled with in New York. Administrative Law Judge Joel A. Linsider recommended last May that the wholesale prices Verizon charges its competitors be cut significantly, and the commission affirmed his decision yesterday.
Forcing Verizon to make its infrastructure available to competitors reflects the fact that its physical assets were built by a public monopoly over the span of a century, and cannot easily be duplicated by a new entrant in the marketplace. The same dynamic and reasoning forced AT&T in the mid-1980's to lease its network to Sprint, MCI and other fledgling long-distance competitors, which ultimately built much of their own infrastructure.
The challenge is to establish wholesale discount rates that will foster greater competition, while still being fair to the Baby Bells and their shareholders. Other states should follow New York's lead to encourage meaningful competition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (95%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGES (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); LEGAL MONOPOLIZATION (78%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); MONOPOLIZATION (75%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); AGENCY ADJUDICATION (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); JUDGES (63%); APPEALS COURTS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; EDITORIALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STATES (US); ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (91%) PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC; PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



720 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Finding Out How the Neighbors Are Faring

BYLINE:  By VERLYN KLINKENBORG 

 BODY:
According to the venerable Adam Smith, "the great commerce of every civilized society is that carried on between the inhabitants of the town and those of the country," who are, he writes, "mutually the servants of one another." In some deep-down sense that must still be true, though everything has changed since those words were published. Food still comes from farms, and farmers still buy products made in cities. Farmers, of course, never forget that reciprocity. But to city dwellers, who now make up nearly the entire population of America, agriculture tends to look, unfortunately, like an afterthought, a remnant industry fighting in Congress for a disproportionate share of the national wealth. 
 The farm-bill debate will begin again in the Senate next week, taking up where it left off after a wearisome round of deliberations just before the Christmas recess. It looks now as though the single most important moment in this long season of fitful farm legislation will turn out to have been the publication on the Internet of the Farm Subsidy Database by the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit research organization based in Washington. 
 This is a searchable database that allows anyone to see just how much money individual farmers -- 2.5 million of them -- have received in federal subsidies during the past five years. The database Web site is www.ewg.org and has been searched 18.3 million times. You have to wonder how many of those searches were made by farmers.
It takes some imagining to grasp the impact of public information like that. Like the rest of us, farmers naturally wonder how the neighbors are doing. But farmers are much more intent in their assessments. When I ride to town with one of my farming aunts or uncles they see a completely different countryside than I do. 
They know who owns the fields they pass, or who rents them and what they rent for. They identify the places where a corn planter broke down last spring by the breakdown in the symmetry of the rows. They are up to the minute on the price of soybeans and soybean futures. They can take one look at a new confinement hog barn on a neighbor's place and factor out all of the costs and tell you in a split second the likelihood of that neighbor ever making a profit on hogs. 
If you've ever visited a grain elevator during the harvest season, you realize that many things about farm finances are an open book, to those who understand how to do the reading. The grain trucks lined up at the elevator are mostly the same size and filled with grain dried to the same degree and being sold or borrowed against or stored at prices that are openly discussed. No mysteries there.
And now no mysteries in their subsidy checks either. Now farmers can look up five years of federal payouts on the Web and compute a rough but reasonable profit-or-loss statement for the people down the road. It's a little like suddenly knowing the take-home pay of everybody on the block, how their debt and investments are structured and which of them have made a mess of their tax planning. 
I'm not sure how much this new knowledge changes the kind of conversation farmers are having among themselves. It's one thing to know something you don't want the neighbors to know you know. It's something else entirely to admit that you actually checked to see how the neighbors are faring. 
The farmers I know tend to speak elliptically about most matters anyway, economic or otherwise. Even the knowledge that they're all in this together -- all of their subsidies out in the open -- won't necessarily get them to talk to each other about how much they're getting or not getting. To them, after all, the farm supports that look so byzantine to us are a way of life. The news here, for them, isn't the way the system works. It's the detailed numbers the system generates. Knowing those numbers makes nobody comfortable, neither the ones who are doing well nor the ones who are doing poorly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FARM PRODUCT WAREHOUSING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); HOG & PIG FARMING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (71%); FUTURES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (65%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%) AGRICULTURE; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FARMERS 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL WORKING GROUP 

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (73%) KLINKENBORG, VERLYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: EDITORIAL OBSERVER (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



721 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Israeli Seeks Meeting With Palestinian Council
The speaker of the Israeli Parliament, Avraham Burg, a dovish member of the Labor Party, said that in an effort to break the cycle of violence and revenge, he would accept an invitation to address the Palestinian legislative council despite the objections of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. A5

Suspects Detained in India
The police detained more than 50 people for questioning in connection with an attack outside the American cultural center in Calcutta that left four Indian police officers dead. A7

Indonesian Rebel Dead
Government troops said they had shot and killed the commander of the separatist Aceh Liberation Movement in a raid on his jungle headquarters in Aceh, a rebellious province on the northern tip of Sumatra. A11

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A14-15

U.S. Suspends Airlift Of Captives to Cuba Base
The United States, facing criticism from European allies over its treatment of prisoners, halted the transport of additional captives from Afghanistan to the American naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Officials said the halt had resulted from a shortage of detention space. A1

Move to Stop Iran Arms Flow
Officials in Kandahar Province, hoping to calm rising tensions between rival warlords, said they would ask Afghanistan's interim government to halt possible Iranian arms shipments into western Afghanistan and to improve security in the country's northwestern provinces. A14

Philippine Protests Abate
Vice President Teofisto Guingona Jr., long an opponent of American military presence in the islands, endorsed the impending arrival of American soldiers who will advise Filipino troops battling Muslims in the southern Philippines. In general, protests over the Americans' role have fizzled across the nation this week. A14

American Suspect Back in U.S.
John Walker, an American captured with Taliban fighters in Afghanistan, arrived at Dulles airport near Washington and was taken by helicopter to a detention center in Virginia. A15

Anthrax Reward Increased
Federal officials are offering $2.5 million for information on who mailed letters tainted with anthrax. A15

Assurances on City Costs
The director of homeland security, Tom Ridge, said the Bush administration would offer "unprecedented support" to mayors asking to be repaid for billions spent on defending their cities from terror attacks. A15

NATIONAL A16-25

Bush Budget Emphasizing Military and Economy
President Bush said he would seek $48 billion in additional spending on the military next year, a wartime increase that will be the centerpiece of the budget proposal he sends to Congress next month. Officials said the budget would sharpen the focus on two basic themes: winning the war on terror and reviving the economy. A1

Retooling '96 Welfare Law
House Democrats will offer a proposal today to convert the 1996 welfare law into a tool for reducing poverty while extending its major provisions for five years. Although the rolls have been reduced by more than half since 1996, Democrats say they worry that some of those with jobs are not escaping poverty. A24

Choosing Sides Over Cloning
The Senate is to hold hearings today on whether to restrict cloning, and the fight over the research is creating unlikely alliances on Capitol Hill. A25

Indictments in Puerto Rico
Federal officials announced the indictment of 17 people accused of diverting federal funds. They include a former education secretary of the commonwealth, Victor Fajardo, who was charged with extorting millions for himself and his political party, the New Progressive Party. A1

Pay Gap Among Managers
The difference in managerial salaries for men and women in industry is greater today than it was six years ago, a Congressional study said. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

McGreevey Begins Layoffs To Ease State Budget Gap
New Jersey officials sent layoff notices to 600 of the state's 76,000 employees, and top advisers to Governor McGreevey said the administration would cut hundreds more jobs this year to ease a $2.8 billion deficit. B1

Jailed Mobster Indicted
Federal prosecutors levied new charges against Vincent Gigante, 73, asserting that the mob chief sometimes called the Oddfather is not only sane but continues to run the Genovese crime family from prison. B1

Neediest Cases B7

EDUCATION

Jobless Head Back to Campus
Admissions officers at many professional schools and graduate programs say they are being inundated with applications from students having difficulty finding jobs. A1

CIRCUITS G1-8

ARTS E1-12

Mariah Carey Loses Contract
EMI Records, seeking to cut its losses after disappointing sales of the "Glitter" album, will pay Ms. Carey $28 million to free itself from the high costs of producing and promoting any more of her albums under her $80 million contract. A1

OBITUARIES B7-8

SPORTS D1-8

SCIENCE/HEALTH

On Mammograms' Worth
An independent panel of experts, citing seven large studies of mammography, said there was insufficient evidence that mammograms prevented deaths from breast cancer. A16

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Enron Auditors' Shredding
As many as 80 people who worked at Arthur Andersen's Houston office were involved in the destruction of documents related to Enron, according to the chairman of a Congressional panel that will begin hearings today on Enron's collapse. A1

Kenneth Lay, who built Enron into the nation's seventh-largest corporation, announced his resignation as chairman and chief executive. A1

The growing stack of lawsuits against Arthur Andersen, which audited Enron's financial statements, raises the question of just how much it can afford to pay out. C1

Two Democrats in the Senate and one in the House said they would introduce legislation imposing new restraints on accountants, a move that so far has gained no support from Republicans or the administration. C1

Some Democrats in the Senate are weighing whether provisions of a bill to reform the bankruptcy code should be reconsidered. They are also looking at changes to make the bill friendlier to consumers. C8

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: Putting a value on lives; fair local phone rates; Verlyn Klinkenborg on farmers and subsidies.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E9
TV Listings E11
Crossword E10
Weather A20
Public Lives B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (87%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TALIBAN (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); MILITARY BASES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); WAR ON TERROR (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); ARMS TRADE (71%); NAVIES (70%); HELICOPTERS (68%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (66%); ANTHRAX (66%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (79%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); INDONESIA (93%); PHILIPPINES (93%); INDIA (93%); CUBA (87%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



722 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds a Growing Gap Between Managerial Salaries for Men and Women 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
The difference in managerial salaries for men and women in American industry grew from 1995 to 2000, a Congressional study has found.
 During one of the nation's biggest economic booms, managerial salaries for women not only failed to catch up to those of their male counterparts, they lost ground in several industries, according to the study, which was released today. 
 In entertainment, communications, finance, insurance and retailing, the study said, the gap between men and women grew by as much as 21 cents for every dollar earned.
The report, by the General Accounting Office, the independent research office of Congress, looked at salaries in the 10 industries that employed the most women from 1995 through 2000. It defined a manager as any job whose description included the words administrator, director, manager or supervisor. Among other controls, the study compared salaries for full-time employees only. 
The study also found that women continued to be scarce in managerial ranks. Over all, women make up roughly half the work force but only 12 percent of corporate officers.
"While there has been overall progress for women, they are stalling or sliding back when they reach management," said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of Manhattan, who commissioned the study.
Mothers lost the most ground, according to the report.
"The widest gap was between parents," who were managers, said Martha Farnsworth Riche, an economist and former director of the Census Bureau who vetted the study for the accounting office. "Over all, women are equal to men up to about 33 years of age and then they steadily lose."
Dr. Riche noted that the dropoff probably occurred because women climbing the ranks of management at that age were most likely to begin raising children. Once they started families, mothers who were managers could count on earning 66 percent of what fathers who were managers were paid, she said.
The study found that 60 percent of women who were managers did not have children, having either forsaken or deferred motherhood or waited until their children were grown before taking on management responsibilities. 
The figure for men was the reverse; 60 percent were fathers while filling management positions.
Some lawmakers said that the salary discrepancy could have a significant impact on families as the country endures a recession. Women now provide at least half of the income for more than two-thirds of American families.
"This is no longer a women's issue but a family issue," said Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan. He said he would call for hearings to review the study's findings. 
The study focused on the 10 industries that employ the most women. Three of those industries -- medicine, education and public administration -- narrowed the gap between salaries. Among education managers, for example, women earned 91 cents for every dollar earned by a man in 2000, up from 86 cents in 1995.
But among managers in the entertainment industry, women earned 62 cents, down from 83 cents in 1995; among managers in the communications industry, women earned 73 cents, down from 86 cents in 1995.
Some skeptics, like Randel Johnson at the United States Chamber of Commerce, doubted the results of the study would hold up under scrutiny. He said any number of reasons could explain why women's management salaries might be less than those of men.
"I doubt they have the same seniority as men," said Mr. Johnson.
But even if the findings proved accurate and women were the victims of discrimination, he said, there was no reason to hold hearings or change laws.
"If the reason for this apparent wage discrepancy is discrimination, then the law already provides for a remedy," said Mr. Johnson. 
Martha Burk, chairwoman of the National Council of Women's Organizations, said most companies were not required to reveal salaries. Among managers, she said, most women were unaware they were paid less than male colleagues. If they found a difference, she added, they were reluctant to spend years suing their employers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (90%); WOMEN (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PARENTS (78%); MEN (78%); ACCOUNTING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CENSUS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; RESEARCH; MEN; WOMEN; WAGES AND SALARIES 

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (83%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%) GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE 

PERSON: CAROLYN MALONEY (73%); JOHN DINGELL (58%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; MALONEY, CAROLYN B (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



723 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus or Not, Hope in the Consumer Economy 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
Even without a Congressional economic stimulus package, a few sources of stimulus seem to be quietly bolstering modest growth in consumer spending, increasing prospects that the recession is ending.
 Many paychecks have become slightly larger in recent weeks because of a decline in personal tax rates that was part of last summer's tax cut and which took effect on Jan. 1. Some consumers also seem to have waited to spend the rebate checks they received last year, of up to $600, according to recent research. 
 And while mortgage rates have risen since September, they remain lower than in nearly all the 1990's, giving millions of homeowners a reason to refinance and potentially withdraw extra cash from their home loans. The number of people refinancing their loans rose 43 percent last week from the week before, the Mortgage Bankers of Association of America said yesterday. 
Combined with energy prices that remain low, the cash injections have helped consumer spending recover from a holiday shopping season that was weak until its final days, economists say. Retail chain store sales were 3.8 percent higher last week than in the week a year earlier, the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi said yesterday. It was the biggest gain since August.
Most economists still expect this year's recovery to be tepid, in part because household spending has not declined in the recession and little pent-up demand exists for houses, cars and other big purchases. Barring a strong recovery, unemployment is likely to remain at least at its current level of 5.8 percent for most of this year.
But recent reports have been encouraging enough to cause many forecasters to raise their growth predictions for this year. They have also led investors to think the Federal Reserve has finished lowering its benchmark federal funds rate, after having done so 11 times since early last year, to the lowest level in almost 40 years. Based on the closing price yesterday of the federal funds futures contract for next month, investors now see a 20 percent chance that the Fed will cut the rate by a quarter of a percentage point when it meets next week.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, is scheduled to speak to the Senate Budget Committee this morning about the economy and fiscal policy.
Earlier this month, in a speech emphasizing both the economy's improvement and its remaining weaknesses, Mr. Greenspan said the phasing in of last year's tax cut "should provide noticeable short-term stimulus to demand" this year. 
The biggest boost will come from the reduction, to 10 percent from 15 percent, on the tax of the first $12,000 of income for married couples and the first $6,000 for single filers. Companies began reducing the amount of money they withhold from paychecks at the start of this year.
Over all, consumers will have about $40 billion more in disposable income this year, according to UBS Warburg. If they were to spend it all, it would add about four-tenths of a percentage point to annual economic growth, which most forecasters expect to be less than 2 percent. Although people are likely to save some of the money, they typically spend a greater portion of a tax cut that appears in their weekly paychecks than a cut that comes in a lump sum, like last year's rebates.
"You're not talking about anything huge," Susan Hering, a senior economist at UBS Warburg said, "but there is another stage of tax relief coming."
Many households will also receive bigger refunds this spring because of an increase in the child-care tax credit, to $600 from $500, that went into effect last year, Ms. Hering said.
At the same time, the $38 billion in tax rebates that the Treasury mailed last year continues to seep slowly into the economy. Late last summer, as the rebates were being mailed, only 18 percent of people said they planned to spend most of their checks, according to a survey by the University of Michigan. By November, that rose to 25 percent.
"It looks like some people just waited a while to spend the rebate," Joel Slemrod, one of the Michigan researchers, said.
That would be consistent with earlier research suggesting that people spend around 20 percent of a tax rebate or refund within the first three months of receiving it and roughly 30 percent more in the next nine months, Laurence Seidman, an economist at the University of Delaware, said.
Some analysts say a bigger portion might be saved this time because many low-income people, who tend to spend more of their income, received no rebate or only a small one.
Another form of veiled stimulus is the cash payments that many homeowners chose to receive in exchange for increasing the size of their mortgage, when they refinanced it. 
Average 30-year mortgage rates have hovered around 7 percent in recent weeks, after falling as low as 6.45 percent in November, according to the Fed. During the decade-long expansion, they averaged 7.9 percent.
Last year's low rates caused $1 trillion of mortgage debt, out of about $5.3 trillion, to be refinanced. This year, the Mortgage Bankers Association predicts that households will refinance $500 billion more, and analysts say that could lead to about $25 billion in cash payments, most of which would be spent.
By itself, such spending would not cause growth to accelerate this year because the government statistics would compare it with last year's higher levels, but it would still improve the immediate cash flow of many households.
"Relatively speaking, it looks sort of paltry," said Douglas G. Duncan, the chief economist at the bankers' association. "But refinancing is still at a high level historically."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); FUTURES (68%); RETAIL SALES (67%); SALES REBATES (58%); MARRIAGE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TAXATION; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; HOUSING; AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (68%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



724 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: Many Ride Out the Recession In a Graduate School Harbor 

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
The sagging economy has created a bonanza of applicants for the nation's schools of business, law, journalism, education and many other graduate programs as laid-off workers and college seniors are deciding to wait out the recession by honing their skills.
 College job placement offices may be in the doldrums, but admissions officers at many of the nation's professional schools and graduate programs say they are being inundated with applications. 
 The trend is striking. Admission officers at Emory University business school say applications were up 80 percent at the end of the first round in the admissions cycle in December in comparison to the same period last season; those at U.C.L.A. report a 90 percent increase and those at the University of Chicago report a 100 percent jump. Yale University Law School says applications are up 57 percent at this point in the season compared to the same point last year while Vanderbilt says its applications are up 47 percent. Engineering and education schools talk of similar surges. The bars for entrance have been raised. 
Students at the University of Pennsylvania here give a simple explanation for the sudden enthusiasm for graduate education: the difficulty of finding jobs. Dave Feygenson, a senior, would have liked to work on Wall Street first and attend graduate school later if he could find a job. But after searching for a job in vain, he has applied to Ph.D. programs in finance at the nation's top schools.
"Why fight the economy?" he said. "Why not get it done now, since I cannot find a job anyway."
The only professional schools unaffected by this recession are schools of medicine. They are usually immune to economic cycles because the completion of a medical degree and the required residency can take eight or more years, a tremendous time investment in comparison to studying for other professions. 
University officials say it is hardly surprising that during harsh economic times people turn to graduate and professional schools as havens from market storms where they can sharpen their skills and improve their credentials for better times to come. But this year's increase in the number of applicants is the largest in decades, said many longtime directors of admissions at professional and graduate schools.
The reaction to hard economic times is not automatically predictable. During the recession that occurred at the beginning of the 1990's, for instance, the numbers of applicants to both law and business schools nationwide slipped, while the application increases to the other professional and graduate schools were modest.
At the University of Pennsylvania, the job placement office was eerily quiet on a recent afternoon. No students popped in to inquire about jobs; no employers called to recruit. But one block away, at the admissions office of the university's Wharton Business School, virtually every employee of the admissions office -- including the director -- was busy opening application envelopes pouring in from all corners of the country. 
Janice L. Austin, the assistant dean of admissions at the law school, where applications are up 33 percent, has hired four more people simply to open mails and bought a high-speed printer for letters to applicants. Rosemaria Martinelli, the director of admissions for Wharton's M.B.A. program, has led a team that is 15 people larger than last year's to read the applications day and night and even on weekends. Christopher E. Hopey, the vice dean of admissions at the school of education, where applications are up 70 percent, has just ordered 10,000 more letterhead stationery as the last batch, already an additional order, runs out.
"It's a logistic nightmare," said Dr. Hopey. "But it's a happy problem."
Although the dot-com bubble burst more than a year ago, its effect on professional and graduate school applications was not obvious until this round of applications. When many Internet startups first failed last January, it was already too late to meet the application deadlines for fall 2001 entrance, usually in February or March. But this year, the dot-com refugees, "disenchanted, disillusioned and disabled to pay rent," in the words of a University of Pennsylvania spokeswoman, have shown up as applicants here and elsewhere.
Eric Landry is one. After the Texas software company he worked for laid off 350 people last spring, including him, he decided to apply to the master's program in software engineering at the University of Texas at Austin.
"I have always wanted to go back to school and get the software training that I need to go to the next level," Mr. Landry said. "But it was never the right time." 
There was simply too much money and excitement to give up. The largest cost of acquiring a degree, said Edward Snyder, the dean of the business school at the University of Chicago, was to forgo your current earnings, and weak economies lower that cost. Federal and private loans -- averaging $80,000 for a law school student, $50,000 for a business student -- make the graduate school years possible.
But while the recession lowers the ante for those prepared to start graduate education, it has tuned up the anxiety for those ready to finish. Even second-year M.B.A. students at Wharton, whose predecessors had often boasted of five, six job offers in previous years, are wringing their hands, wondering what next. 
The hard times have reoriented the college seniors, too, who grew up during the longest boom in decades. During the 2001-2002 school year, employers are expected to hire 6 percent to 13 percent fewer college graduates than the last school year, according to a report released by Collegiate Employment Research Institute at Michigan State University. The job market for advanced degree holders will shrink by 20 percent, it also said.
While applications to graduate school are booming, it will be tougher for college seniors to get into the most selective programs because the number of available places has not grown substantially. The admissions director at Emory's business school, for instance, expects the average Graduate Management Admissions Test score of the new class to go to 670 from last year's 650.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A job placement office at the University of Pennsylvania was mostly empty on Monday, while graduate program admission offices are booming.; Dave Feygenson, left, and Taylor and Blake Medgal, twins, all seniors at the University of Pennsylvania, see more schooling in their near futures. (Photographs by Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)(pg. A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); TRENDS (76%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%); YALE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



725 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: BOXING; 
Combatants Aim to Fight In the Ring

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR with EDWARD WONG 

 BODY:
Lennox Lewis's promoter said yesterday that he wanted his fighter's April 6 bout with Mike Tyson to proceed despite the ugly melee involving the boxers on Tuesday.
 "I don't want people to see Lennox dodging his fights," said Gary Shaw, the chief operating officer of Main Events, Lewis's promoter in the United States. "I want to show the world that Lennox Lewis is champion." 
 Jose Sulaiman, the president of the World Boxing Council, whose heavyweight title is one of two major ones held by Lewis, said he believed the long-anticipated fight would go on, in the United States or elsewhere. 
"I believe what will happen will sell tickets to the people who want blood and drama," said Sulaiman, who was briefly knocked unconscious during the brawl at the Hudson Theater in Midtown Manhattan. "If it was me, the fight has to happen."
Still, Sulaiman decried the lack of security Tuesday at what was supposed to be a news conference promoting the bout.
"Immediately, when I walked into the place, I detected something could happen," he said.
Whether the fight goes on as scheduled in Las Vegas or somewhere else, or not at all, depends on a previously scheduled hearing next Tuesday by the Nevada State Athletic Commission. Tyson has not been licensed by the commission since he fought Francois Botha in January 1999. Boxers must have their licenses renewed in Nevada every year. The commission suspended Tyson from boxing in Nevada for 18 months after he bit Evander Holyfield's ear in their 1997 rematch.
Tyson will need three commissioners to vote in his favor. He will face Luther Mack, who owns several McDonald's franchises; Amy Ayoub, a political consultant; Flip Homansky and Tony Alamo, who are physicians; and John Bailey, a lawyer.
Marc Ratner, the commission's executive director, expected to examine raw ESPNews footage of the fracas today. When he watched the televised portion of the brawl, he said: "I was perturbed because I could foresee this happening. Why would anybody want to get these guys close to each other?"
On Monday, Ratner told Main Events and Shelly Finkel, Tyson's manager, "not to let them get close to each other." 
He added, "And I can't believe it happened."
The free-for-all began as Tyson quickly approached Lewis for a nose-to-nose face-off. A bodyguard for Lewis apparently pushed Tyson, who swung in retaliation, leading Lewis to fire an overhand right at Tyson.
Members of Lewis's camp alleged that Tyson bit Lewis below the right knee, but there has been no independent corroboration. Pat English, a lawyer for Main Events, declined a request to see Lewis's knee.
In a statement, Tyson said: "I came to New York to promote a fight that I want and the boxing fans came to see. I am not a role model or Mr. Politically Correct." He cited a miscommunication between camps about the face-off.
If the Nevada commission does not license Tyson, he may go elsewhere. Unlike a commission's suspension of a boxer, which federal legislation seeks to have other commissions comply with, there is no such provision on license refusal. "We couldn't stop him," Ratner said.
Raymond Kelly, the New York State boxing commissioner and New York City police commissioner, refused to prejudge Tyson, but said that for Tyson to be licensed in New York "there would be special requirements, and we would have to make certain there were safeguards against a repetition of what happened."
Larry Hazzard, commissioner of the New Jersey State Athletic Control Board, was noncommittal about licensing Tyson and Lewis.
The possibility of canceling the bout would not be good news for Las Vegas, where hotel room rates and occupancy are slowly recovering from a drop in tourism after Sept. 11. For major boxing events, casinos invite hundreds, even thousands, of high-rolling gamblers to view the fight. Guests from around the world typically attend major bouts. The MGM Grand was expecting to fill its arena to its capacity of 17,157, said Scott Ghertner, director of sports and promotions for MGM Mirage, the hotel's parent company.
"This fight could have a far greater economic impact than any fight before it, and it would definitely help the city's return to what we were before 9/11," Ghertner said.
For most major fights, the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority estimates an $8 million to $12 million impact for hotels, retailers and restaurants, said Rob Powers, a spokesman for the group. (Casinos do not reveal their economic impact.)
"A fight like this would be good given the times, but the L.V.C.V.A. isn't taking any position on what the state athletic commission should do with regard to Tyson's license," he said.
One official who does not care if the fight dies is Gary Reese, the mayor pro tem.
"This fight isn't make or break for the city," he said. "If they can't act like gentlemen in a dress rehearsal, we don't need them. Anyone who sees this fight would wonder, 'Why would I want to go to Las Vegas?' " 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (75%); LICENSES & PERMITS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); LAWYERS (67%); FRANCHISING (63%) BOXING 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (65%); ESPN INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: NEVADA STATE ATHLETIC COMMISSION 

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (65%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; WONG, EDWARD; TYSON, MIKE; LEWIS, LENNOX; SHAW, GARY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEVADA

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



726 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 165 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA; 
Sales Drop Reported For Licensed Goods

BYLINE:  By Bill Carter 

 BODY:
Retail sales of licensed merchandise in North America declined last year, according to the 25th annual licensing industry survey by The Licensing Letter, a newsletter published by EPM Communications in New York.
 The survey, published in the newsletter's January issue, showed that retail sales dropped 5 percent, to $70.3 billion from $73.8 billion in 2000. 
The biggest decreases were in merchandise licensing music properties, which fell 16 percent, and entertainment, which declined 10 percent. 
 The survey gave three main reasons for the decline: the weak economy, worsened by the terrorist attacks; consolidation among retailers; and retailers taking fewer chances on types of merchandise they stock.
Sales of licensed properties related to nonprofit organizations rose 29 percent last year, in part because of sales of merchandise with logos of the New York Police and Fire Departments. The survey said the increase would have been larger if not for sales of unlicensed merchandise.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LICENSING AGREEMENTS (92%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (92%); PUBLISHING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (73%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (52%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

ORGANIZATION: LICENSING LETTER 

PERSON: CARTER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



727 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: National Briefing Rockies: Colorado: Gift Becomes Political Hot Potato 

BYLINE:  By Mindy Sink (NYT) 

 BODY:
 In an effort to "avoid any appearance of impropriety," Gov. Bill Owens, a Republican, donated campaign contributions from the Enron Corporation to a charter school. 
Governor Owens, who is seeking re-election, received a total of $4,500 from the company's chairman, Kenneth L. Lay, in 2000 and 2001. But officials at the charter school, which is called Challenges, Choices and Images Literacy Technology, said they did not want the money either and would give it to the Enron pension fund to help the employees who had lost their life savings as a result of Enron's financial collapse. Mindy Sink (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARTER SCHOOLS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (86%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (86%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) ELECTIONS; FINANCES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CHARTER SCHOOLS; GOVERNORS (US) 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (93%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: OWENS, BILL (GOV); SINK, MINDY; LAY, KENNETH L 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) COLORADO

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



728 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: House Democrats Propose Making the '96 Welfare Law an Antipoverty Weapon 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
A yearlong struggle over welfare policy will begin on Thursday when House Democrats offer a proposal to convert the 1996 welfare law into a tool for reducing poverty, while extending its major provisions for five years.
 The House Democrats said they accepted the basic structure of the 1996 law, which provides a lump sum of money to each state regardless of whether welfare rolls rise or fall. 
 They said they would maintain the law's emphasis on work and would not try to restore the individual entitlement to cash assistance. The law abolished that entitlement, but major provisions of the statute expire on Sept. 30 unless reauthorized by Congress. 
Although welfare rolls have been reduced by more than half in the last six years, Democrats worry that some of those with jobs -- to say nothing of those who have lost jobs -- are not escaping poverty. Under a bill to be introduced on Thursday, House Democrats would increase spending on welfare and child care by a total of at least $20 billion, or more than 15 percent, over the next five years.
The Democrats' bill specifies a new purpose for federal welfare money: "reducing the extent and severity of poverty." The federal government would pay bonuses totaling $150 million a year -- $750 million over five years -- to states that reduce the number of poverty-stricken children. Representative Benjamin L. Cardin of Maryland, chief sponsor of the bill, described it as "the next step in welfare reform."
Republicans have a majority in the House, but the Democrats' proposal will help set the agenda for debate. Senate Democrats support similar ideas, and Republicans have not set forth a detailed proposal in either chamber.
The proportion of children in poverty declined to 16.2 percent in 2000, the lowest level in more than two decades, from 20.5 percent in 1996, according to the Census Bureau. But the drop in the welfare rolls has been much steeper. Both changes occurred in a strong economy, when many employers were desperate to fill low-wage jobs.
Congress must now figure out what to do in a recession, with rising unemployment. Welfare rolls have increased in some states, and governors seek more federal money.
The 1996 law rewrote the social contract between poor people and the government, and gave states vast new power to run their own welfare programs. Democrats want to continue the law's work requirements and five-year limit on payment of cash assistance to each family, but would liberalize those provisions.
Republicans generally see no reason to increase spending, and say they will oppose Democratic efforts to relax work requirements or time limits. They are more eager than Democrats to use welfare programs to promote marriage, in the belief that children fare best when reared in two-parent families.
Representative Wally Herger, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources, said he would resist major changes in the 1996 law because it had been highly successful. But Mr. Herger said he had "an overwhelmingly strong desire" to win bipartisan support for a welfare bill this year.
Democrats were deeply divided over welfare in 1996, and some of those disagreements may surface again this year. President Bill Clinton described the changes in welfare policy as one of his greatest achievements, and centrist Democrats want to preserve his legacy. Bruce N. Reed, chief domestic policy adviser to Mr. Clinton, and Will Marshall, president of the Progressive Policy Institute, a research group for centrist Democrats, say Congress should keep the time limits and stiffen the work requirements.
The number of people on welfare has dropped to 5.3 million, from 12.2 million in 1996. But Mr. Cardin, the main sponsor of the new bill, said:"Is caseload reduction a goal unto itself, or is it a means to an end? We want people to leave welfare so they can lift their families out of poverty."
Mr. Cardin, who voted for the 1996 law, added: "Many families are not leaving poverty when they leave welfare for work. Some families at the very bottom of the income scale may have lost ground over the last five years because of a reduction in various forms of public assistance." 
Some Republicans say federal welfare grants should be cut because the number of recipients has plummeted, but Mr. Herger, chairman of the Ways and Means subcommittee, said: "I personally believe we should keep spending at the same level. We should not penalize states for doing a good job."
Federal grants to the states for public assistance, known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, total $16.5 billion a year, roughly the amount the federal government was spending on welfare before 1996. With welfare rolls down, average spending for each recipient has increased in recent years; a larger share of the money is being used for transportation and other services to help welfare recipients climb the job ladder. 
The House Democrats' bill would increase these federal payments so that they kept pace with inflation. That would raise the annual allocation to $18.7 billion by 2007 and would cost the federal government $6 billion to $7 billion over five years.
House Democrats said they would also try to restore welfare benefits to legal immigrants who have not become citizens. Such benefits were severely restricted by the 1996 law. 
Under the House Democrats' bill, it would be easier for states to satisfy federal work requirements because they could count training and education programs as "work" for two years, up from the current one year.
In addition, the five-year limit on receipt of public assistance would be relaxed for people working at paid jobs and receiving welfare at the same time. A month in which a welfare recipient had earnings would not be counted against the five-year limit. In effect, the clock would be stopped in those months.
House Democrats are also proposing a major increase in child care subsidies, to help people with low-wage jobs, regardless of whether they are on welfare. The Child Care and Development Block Grant, $4.7 billion this year, would be increased to $8 billion by 2007, and total spending over five years would rise by $11.25 billion, or nearly 50 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CHILD POVERTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); PARENTS (72%); MARRIAGE (64%); CENSUS (50%) WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CHILD CARE 

PERSON: BEN CARDIN (58%) PEAR, ROBERT; CARDIN, BENJAMIN L (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



729 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: REGULATION; 
Audit Changes Are Facing Major Hurdles

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
Congress appears reluctant to impose stricter standards on the accounting profession, an industry that is among its largest political patrons, despite public and presidential expressions of outrage over the failure of auditors to warn investors of the perilous condition of Enron before they lost tens of billions of dollars. 
 A day before two Congressional committees begin a series of hearings on the unraveling of Enron, the role of the Arthur Andersen auditing firm, and the oversight by Washington, two Democrats in the Senate and one in the House announced today their intent to introduce legislation imposing new restraints on accountants. 
 But no Republicans have said they are willing to be cosponsors of the measures, and administration officials, who continue to embrace a broad deregulatory agenda, have been critical of enlarging the role of government in overseeing the accounting industry. The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission said in a speech today that his agency should not extend its regulatory reach in overseeing the accounting profession, and should rely instead on officials from the corporate world to monitor the auditors. 
And many Democrats who have previously supported the industry's attempts to defeat more stringent regulation remain in the accountants' camp, or at least appear publicly neutral. Congressional aides and critics of the current system, including some who support the measures introduced today, conceded that they faced long odds despite the scandals at Enron and Andersen.
"It is never a good bet to bet against the accounting industry," said Barbara Roper, the director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America. She said that accountants have long enjoyed unusual influence in Washington because of their generous campaign contributions and their standing in lawmakers' home districts. Still, she was optimistic that this time, things would be different, because many lawmakers who supported the industry will now have to make the case that they are not in its pocket.
"If ever there was an opportunity, this is it," she said. "There is a sense in which all of this money from the accounting industry over the last 10 years, the tens of millions of dollars spent on Congress, could come back to haunt them. There are a lot of people who need to prove that that money did not buy them off."
Senator Paul S. Sarbanes, the Maryland Democrat who heads the banking committee, agreed that it would be difficult to adopt significant legislation, particularly in view of the current deregulatory climate in Washington and the influence of the accounting industry.
"I see this as a challenge," Mr. Sarbanes said, adding that he hoped to announce a proposal after holding a series of hearings next month on the regulatory issues posed by the scandal. "We've been through a period where full regulation has been downplayed. Obviously if you don't have appropriate regulation you have difficulty assuring the integrity of your markets. If you can't assure the integrity of the markets, it is a severe blow to the economy."
Two Democrats in the Senate, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut and Jon S. Corzine of New Jersey, and one Democrat in the House, Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, became the first lawmakers to announce their intentions to introduce legislation that would impose new restraints on accountants. 
Mr. Markey, who proposed a measure banning the accounting firms from performing both accounting and consulting services for the same client, as Andersen did for Enron, acknowledged that he faced a tough fight against the accounting industry.
"They are a classic 800-pound gorilla that has been cut down to size a bit, but they are still a 500-pound gorilla politically and this will still be a difficult political battle," Mr. Markey said. "The response of the status quo will be that all of these activities were criminal to begin with and we should more strictly enforce criminal laws rather than adopt new restraints. It's like the N.R.A.'s argument on guns."
The accounting firms have contributed more than $53 million since 1990 to Congressional and presidential candidates. More than $14 million of those contributions came in 2000, putting accountants in the same category as more established big donors like telephone companies, universities and the building trade unions. All of the Big Five accounting firms appeared on the list of 20 largest donors to President Bush's campaign in 2000.
Mr. Markey noted that it was the successful and heavy lobbying by the industry, including Andersen, that led to the adoption of a 1995 law that makes it more difficult for accountants to be sued successfully by investors in securities fraud cases.
It was not the only industry success. Two years ago, the last time a senior official tried to toughen the accounting rules, more than a dozen senators -- many still on the Banking Committee -- opposed and ultimately killed many of the proposals made by Arthur Levitt, then the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, to reduce what he said were conflicts of interest at the firms. 
Those who voiced concern about the proposals by Mr. Levitt included Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican overseeing tomorrow's hearing in the House, and Representative Michael G. Oxley, the Ohio Republican who heads the Financial Services committee.
And at least twice in the last eight years, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who is heading the Senate hearings on Thursday, led efforts sought by the accounting industry to derail stricter accounting rules on stock options.
Congressional officials today described a deep reluctance to enlarge the powers of the federal government to protect investors and monitor accountants.
"There is a lot of resistance for regulatory initiatives in the Congress now, but it is an issue that is worth having a debate on," Senator Corzine said.
The view of limiting the authority of the federal government was repeated by Harvey L. Pitt, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, in a speech today in California. Mr. Pitt said he believed that "private regulation presents major advantages, both in quality control and discipline."
"I have mentioned cost as one reason the S.E.C. should not have immediate and direct regulatory responsibility for the accounting profession," Mr. Pitt said in an address before the Securities Regulation Institute, a group of corporate lawyers and securities experts. "But let me be clear. My principal concern with giving government the direct responsibility is that the process will not work as well. It will be slower, of necessity more bound up in process, and less flexible. The suggestion that the federal government get in the audit business -- for the S.E.C. to employ and pay auditors to audit all public companies -- is simply not viable."
"Of one thing I am certain," he added. "People who are unhappy with audits today will be downright despondent if the government were to undertake the job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, left, and Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts intend to introduce legislation that would impose new restraints on accountants. They are shown here in May. (United Press International)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); DEREGULATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUDITS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (79%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); POLITICS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BANKRUPTCIES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%) ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (74%); JOE LIEBERMAN (74%); JON CORZINE (59%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (59%) LABATON, STEPHEN; DODD, CHRISTOPHER J (SEN); CORZINE, JON S (SEN); MARKEY, EDWARD J (REPR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); PITT, HARVEY L; SARBANES, PAUL S (SEN); LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



730 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Brooklyn Casino Boat Set to Sail Once More 

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN 

 BODY:
The slot machines wait glistening, the boat lies at anchor, and shipboard gambling is poised to make its triumphant return to the slate-green waters off Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, tomorrow night after a two-year absence.
 But the owners of the Max 1, a 230-foot catamaran decked out with 225 slots and 25 gambling tables, may have to postpone the latest leg of a voyage that has run aground several times on the shoals of municipal opposition and financial woes. The city's Gambling Control Commission said yesterday that it had not yet certified that the operators' application, which has hundreds of pages, was complete and that it would probably take a week to do so. 
 "A date for them to commence operations can't be set until we have a completed application," said Raymond V. Casey, the commission's executive director, "and right now I can't tell you that we do."
Joseph Kelleher, the president of Casino New York, the boat's owner, begged to differ. "It is our understanding by our legal counsel that we are authorized to sail," he said last night. The company plans to launch the Max 1 from a pier at the east end of Emmons Avenue for an invitation-only gambling party tomorrow at 7:30 p.m., and to open to the public for four-hour cruises within a few days.
Mr. Kelleher said that while the former mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, fought hard against shipboard gambling, he found it hard to believe that the administration of the new mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, a fellow businessman, would stand in his way.
"We believe that the project is a great project based on the economic development that this will produce, the fact that we're producing over 300 jobs," he said. "We believe the administration would be 100 percent behind us because of that."
Mr. Bloomberg, it turns out, is less than 100 percent behind the project.
"The mayor believes gambling is regressive and he does not have an interest in promoting it," Mr. Bloomberg's press secretary, Edward Skyler, said last night.
An official in Mr. Bloomberg's administration expressed doubt that Casino New York's application would meet the gambling commission's standards. If the application is valid, the boat can operate while the commission completes background checks on some of the company's hundreds of employees.
Shipboard gambling in the unregulated international waters off New York City has had a choppy ride since Casino New York's corporate ancestor, Bay Casino, began running boats in December 1996, surprising -- and displeasing -- Mr. Giuliani.
In October 1997, federal officials, at Mr. Giuliani's urging, declared that the boats must travel 12 miles from shore before the dice could begin to roll, not just beyond the three-mile international limit. The boat stopped running and a court battle ensued.
Bay Casino won and started running again in July 1999 but stopped again in February 2000, this time because the company had run out of money.
With about $8 million in new backing, Mr. Kelleher reiterated his confidence that the $24 million Max 1 would hoist anchor very soon. "We wouldn't be doing this if we didn't believe that it was going to be successful," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: One of the 25 gambling tables aboard the Max 1, a 230-foot catamaran. Its owners plan to resume operations.; The Max 1 is moored at Emmons Avenue in Sheepshead Bay. Shipboard gambling is poised for a return after a two-year absence. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); CASINOS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CRUISES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (70%); LAWYERS (52%) GAMBLING; CASINOS; BOATS AND BOATING 

ORGANIZATION: CASINO NEW YORK (CO); GAMBLING CONTROL COMMISSION (NYC) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (75%) NEWMAN, ANDY; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); KELLEHER, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



731 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1406 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT TO SEEK $48 BILLION MORE FOR THE MILITARY 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON and ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he would seek $48 billion in additional spending on the military next year, a war-time increase that will be the centerpiece of the budget proposal he sends to Congress next month.
 The request, which was larger than even some Pentagon officials had expected and the biggest since the Reagan-era military buildup, illustrated what administration officials said would be a focus by the president on two basic themes as he sets his agenda for the coming year: doing whatever it takes to win the war against terrorism at home and abroad and reviving the economy. 
 It came as Congress began its annual budget debate with a report from the Congressional Budget Office showing that the projected surplus for the next decade had dwindled to $1.6 trillion from $5.6 trillion a year ago and $3.4 trillion last summer. 
The report renewed the partisan debate over the tax cut of about $1.3 trillion over 10 years, which Mr. Bush pushed through Congress last year. He did so over opposition from most Democrats, who argue that it will leave the nation short of money to address both its current needs and the long-run costs of paying Social Security and Medicare benefits to a rapidly aging population. 
The budget office said the government would run deficits this year and next even in the unlikely event that Congress does not increase spending or cut taxes. And it said there does not appear to be any realistic hope of paying off the national debt within this decade, as both parties had pledged to do as recently as a year ago.
Administration officials forecast a deficit this year of $106 billion in the $2 trillion federal budget, followed by a deficit next year of $80 billion.
They said Mr. Bush's plan would call for outright cuts in some domestic programs, and would hold overall increases in spending outside of national security to very low levels.
But they said the president's budget, which will be sent to Capitol Hill on Feb. 4, would call for doubling spending on domestic security programs to more than $25 billion next year, and would set aside $90 billion in the current fiscal year and $75 billion next year for an economic recovery package built around tax cuts for individuals and businesses.
Mr. Bush acknowledged that the increase for the Pentagon "may put a strain on the budget." 
But the president said the increase was necessary to continue the fight against terrorists and protect the United States from future attacks.
"We will not cut corners when it comes to the defense of our great land," Mr. Bush said in speech to the Reserve Officers Association at the Washington Hilton Hotel. 
Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the White House budget director, said Mr. Bush was seeking $38 billion in additional financing for the Pentagon on top of the $328 billion Congress authorized for the current fiscal year, an increase of 11.6 percent. 
Mr. Daniels said the president also wants Congress to authorize another $10 billion reserve fund that he could draw on if necessary to pay the operational costs of the war next year. Congress has already appropriated $17 billion for that purpose this year, and the administration has signaled that it is likely to ask for more to carry it through the rest of the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
The administration set out the big themes of its budget plan as Congress reconvened today and plunged immediately back into the politics of the budget and the economy. 
In the Senate, Democrats and Republicans began negotiating to revive an economic stimulus package, which died at the end of last year among deep differences over what shape it should take. After meeting with Mr. Bush and Republican Congressional leaders at the White House this morning, Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader, said, "There's a real opportunity to work together."
But as the day went on, the negotiations bogged down over procedure, and by tonight Republicans were sounding doubtful about making any progress on the economic package.
"It will be difficult," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican minority leader, "but it is possible."
Moreover, it was clear that the two parties are likely to spar throughout this Congressional election year over the budget and the economy. Democrats suggested that they would focus in particular on whether Mr. Bush's tax cut, which they say was disproportionately tilted to the wealthy, had wrecked the government's fiscal health and limited its ability to deal with other issues.
The Congressional Budget Office said most of the blame for the swing from a $127 billion surplus last year to a projected deficit this year rested with the recession.
But it said the tax cut was the single largest cause of the sharp decline in the surplus over the next decade. It said the tax cut would eat up nearly $1.3 trillion of the surplus from now through 2011, while the weakened economy would reduce it by $929 billion and increased spending would cut it by $550 billion.
That analysis was seized on by Democrats to make their case that the tax cut had severely limited the nation's ability to deal with social and economic issues today and the costs of an aging population in the long run.
"The president told us, and told the American people, that we could have it all," said Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee. "Unfortunately, he was wrong, and he was wrong by a country mile. The consequences of those mistakes are enormous for the nation."
The White House defended the tax plan, saying it was the right medicine for the economy and that if the money had not been allocated to tax reductions it would have been used for more government spending.
"The purpose of government is not to keep taxes high on American people so the government can run gargantuan surpluses which get spent anyway," said Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman.
Although the administration linked its Pentagon spending increase to the war, the additional money Mr. Bush is seeking would not go so much to the direct operating costs of the conflict in Afghanistan and other places around the world as to beefing up the nation's military more generally.
Administration officials said the increase would cover needs ranging from raising pay and improving housing to increasing the readiness of the armed forces to fight. They said it would also put the military on the way to achieving Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's goal of creating a more flexible force with fewer bases and a new generation of weaponry.
In his remarks to the reserve officers, Mr. Bush cast the defense buildup as nothing less than his primary responsibility as president.
"There will be no room for misunderstanding," Mr. Bush said. "The most basic commitment of our government will be the security of our country."
Mr. Bush said that the increased spending would pay for salary increases, precision weapons, unpiloted aircraft and high-tech battlefield communications equipment, among other needs.
"The tools of modern warfare are effective," Mr. Bush said to an enthusiastic crowd. "They are expensive. But in order to win this war against terror, they are essential."
A large portion of the new spending would also go toward the procurement of such big-ticket items as warships, tanks and fighter jets, Pentagon officials said.
"This budget is to address the needs for those pieces of equipment," Susan Hansen, a Pentagon spokeswoman, said.
Ms. Hansen said that if Mr. Bush got his full request from Congress, bringing the military budget to $379 billion after accounting for some bookkeeping changes, the Pentagon would still be getting less in inflation-adjusted terms than it was in 1985, which was considered the high point of President Reagan's buildup. In 2002 dollars, the 1985 budget of $286.8 billion would be $451.8 billion, she said.
Republicans in Congress said they welcomed Mr. Bush's proposal.
"The American public are going to give the president strong support," said Senator John Warner of Virginia, the senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services Committee, "and that in turn will turn into strong bipartisan support in the Congress." 
Democrats were more cautious. 
"Obviously we all share an obligation to provide for the nation's defense," Mr. Conrad said, "and whatever resources are necessary we will provide. But it's also incumbent on the president to tell us how he's going to pay for this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Congressional leaders at the White House yesterday were, from left, Trent Lott, J. Dennis Hastert, Tom DeLay and Tom Daschle. Later President Bush addressed military officers and then greeted R.O.T.C. cadets. (Susanna Raab for The New York Times); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A24) Chart: "UPDATE -- The Shrinking Surplus"The Congressional Budget Office's budget projections for the next decade show much smaller annual surpluses than were forecast last year. The tax cut and the weaker economy are among the reasons. Graphs compare annual surplus projections issued in January 2001 and January 2002. Why the Projections ChangedCUMULATIVE SURPLUS PROJECTION, 2002-2011* ISSUED JANUARY 2001$5,610 billion ISSUED JANUARY 2002$1,602 billion SUBTRACTED FROM LAST YEAR'S PROJECTIONTax cut: 1,275Weaker economy: 929Technical changes: 660Debt service**: 595Military spending: 301Nonmilitary spending: 249 *Figures are rounded**Only debt service costs resulting from legislation changes; other debt costs are in economic and technical categories.(Source: Congressional Budget Office)(pg. A24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); HIJACKING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); MEDICARE (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (70%); AGING (66%); AGING TRENDS (66%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TAXATION; NATIONAL DEBT (US); UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (93%) CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE 

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (71%); TRENT LOTT (59%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) DANIELS, MITCHELL E JR (BUDGET DIR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



732 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: POLITICAL MEMO; 
InPersonal Anecdote, Some See New Distance Where Others See New Strategy

BYLINE:  By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23 

 BODY:
To listen to President Bush, it was almost as if an epiphany involving his mother-in-law drove him to turn on the Enron Corporation, his most generous political benefactor. In assailing Enron on a trip Tuesday to Belle, W.Va., Mr. Bush said, "My own mother-in-law" lost all of her investment when the company's stock collapsed.
 But people close to Mr. Bush said his mother-in-law, Jenna Welch, served as a convenient device for him to distance himself from the Enron debacle and to appear more empathetic to its investors and employees than to the wealthy business executives who escaped the Enron collapse with flush bank accounts. 
 White House officials insisted that there was no change of emphasis -- or heart -- and noted that Mr. Bush's newly disparaging comments about Enron, and his mother-in-law's experience, came in response to reporters' questions.
"This was definitely not a predetermined strategy shift of any sort," said Dan Bartlett, Mr. Bush's communications director. "It's the same thing he's been saying in private meetings and conversations with staff for the past month."
Yet other advisers to Mr. Bush said the president had recently discussed with Karen P. Hughes, his counselor, and a tight circle of aides, that he needed to move more aggressively -- and in a much more public way -- to distance the White House from Enron and its chief executive, Kenneth L. Lay.
They said Mr. Bush was in part responding to many of his friends in Texas where, in the words of one adviser, "This has really put a gash in the fabric of the community." More pragmatically, they said polling for the Republican Party has shown that Mr. Bush's relationship to energy companies is one of his biggest vulnerabilities.
In addition, they said, the White House did not want to end up too much on the defensive, as often happened when controversies swirled around President Bill Clinton. Already, Congressional Republicans appeared to be moving ahead of Mr. Bush by announcing that they were returning their Enron donations -- while the president was still expressing remorse over the collapse.
"It changed the terms of the debate to Bush's family being a victim," Scott Reed, a Republican strategist, said of Mr. Bush's remarks, "and for the first time it gives the Republicans the high ground on the Enron mess. I was with a lot of Democrats at lunch today, and they saw it as a turning point."
An outside adviser to Mr. Bush said, "They don't want Bush to appear to be aloof and focused only on the big financial problems of Enron."
Other Republicans were more skeptical, suggesting that Mr. Bush's hasty retreat from his friendship with Mr. Lay -- and his fresh outrage over Enron -- was transparent.
A longtime Bush adviser said: "He doesn't necessarily turn on people but he cuts them off. This is cut and run." He added, "It was a little gratuitous invoking his mother-in-law." 
Yet by mentioning his mother-in-law, Mr. Bartlett said, the president underscores that he is sympathetic to the personal and financial havoc brought on by Enron's collapse.
"It shows that he does understand that the typical investor and the everyday employees of Enron were really hurt by this," he said.
Specifically, Mr. Bush told reporters on Tuesday: "What I'm outraged about is that shareholders and employees didn't know all the facts about Enron. My own mother-in-law bought stock last summer, and it's not worth anything now. If she had known all the facts, I don't know what her decision would have been made, but she didn't know all the facts. And a lot of shareholders didn't know all the facts."
Still, it can be treacherous for presidents, or would-be presidents, to try to personalize problems of ordinary Americans to their own lives. Al Gore's citing of the price of his mother-in-law's arthritis medicine backfired. (He said she paid nearly three times as much for it as the same medicine used by his ailing dog, Shiloh.) And the audience burst into laughter at a presidential debate when President Jimmy Carter said he chatted about nuclear weaponry with his daughter, Amy.
"This is very dangerous for the president," said Stanley Greenberg, a Democratic pollster. "I don't know that the president can attack Enron and be plausible or authentic. It will not take away the close relationships between Enron and Arthur Andersen and the administration. It will look like hypocrisy."
Asserting that Mr. Bush did not suddenly bring up the anecdote about his mother-in-law, Mr. Bartlett said he first heard the president mention it at a private meeting of the White House economic team on Jan. 10. He also said that had the response been orchestrated, there would have been no need for Ms. Hughes to call him at the White House from West Virginia to seek more details about Ms. Welch's $8,000 Enron investment.
"When Karen called me from the road, she said, 'Can you get the details on the Enron stock?' " Mr. Bartlett said. "We didn't have the details. It's not something we had all in the can. We had to call the accountant." (In fact, after gleaning new details, White House officials ended up correcting Mr. Bush on the timing of his mother-in-law's investment.)
Beyond the political imperatives, White House advisers said Mr. Bush has been affected by the concerns expressed by many of his closest friends in the energy business.
"He's hearing from all kinds of people in Texas on this thing," said a close friend of Mr. Bush. "You can't be in the Houston community without seeing the devastation, and those stories are getting out."
Some advisers to Mr. Bush said he did not act sooner to denounce Enron because he and his aides were inundated with questions about ties between the administration and Enron officials.
To reinforce Mr. Bush's determination to side with the stockholders and Enron employees, Mr. Reed said the president's mother-in-law should join investors who are suing Enron.
"The logical next step for the White House is to have the mother-in-law join this class-action suit," Mr. Reed said. "That's the way to cement this baby." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%) BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LABOR; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (58%) BERKE, RICHARD L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WELCH, JENNA; HUGHES, KAREN P; LAY, KENNETH L 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



733 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
More Details on Shredding As Enron's Chief Resigns
As many as 80 people who worked at Arthur Andersen's Houston office were involved in the destruction of documents related to Enron, according to the chairman of one of the Congressional subcommittees that will begin hearings today on the company's collapse.
 Kenneth L. Lay resigned as chairman and chief executive of Enron, under pressure from creditors, nearly two months after his company sought bankruptcy protection. Mr. Lay will remain on Enron's board. Page A1. 

Enron's collapse has some Senate Democrats reconsidering bankruptcy legislation. C8.

EMI Records Drops Mariah Carey
EMI Records announced that it had ended its agreement with Mariah Carey, who at one point had had more No. 1 hits than any artist except Elvis Presley and the Beatles. EMI signed Ms. Carey last April to an $80 million contract. Its Virgin Records division will pay Ms. Carey $28 million to free itself from having to produce her next three albums. A1.

Bush Seeks $48 Billion for Military
President Bush said he would seek $48 billion in additional spending on the military next year, larger than even some Pentagon officials had expected and the biggest since the Reagan-era military buildup. A1.

Tyco Shares Fall on Reorganization
Shares of Tyco plummeted a day after Dennis Kozlowski, the chairman, said the company's would split into four business. C3.

City Funds Hurt by Enron and Kmart
The pension funds for New York City's firefighters, teachers, police officers and other workers lost $109 million in Enron investments and $25 million in Kmart investments, leading City Comptroller William C. Thompson to say that he was considering a change in how the funds make investments. B3.

Consumers Are Stimulated to Spend
Even without a Congressional economic stimulus package, a few sources of stimulus seem to be quietly bolstering modest growth in consumer spending, increasing the likelihood that the recession is ending. C3.

Chip Makers' Earnings Lift Index
Earnings reports from Motorola STMicroelectronics, Novellus and other chip makers over the last two days have bolstered hopes for a recovery and pushed the Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor index 4.3 percent higher. While dreary compared to the fourth quarter of 2000, the reports generally met or exceeded expectations. C4.

Technology buyers set off a modest rally on Wall Street. The Nasdaq composite index gained 2.1 percent, the Dow Jones industrial average 0.2 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index 0.8 percent. C13.

Case Against Napster Is Delayed
A federal judge has granted a request by four of the five major record companies to suspend their lawsuit against Napster for 30 days. C4.

The Salary Gap Grows for Women
The difference in managerial salaries for men and women in American industry is greater today than it was six years ago, according to a Congressional study. A24.

Chairman of Investor Steps Down
Percy N. Barnevik, a prominent European executive, resigned as chairman of Investor of Sweden. World Business, Section W.

Tariffs on South American Flowers
Tariffs are now being collected on roses, carnations and other products imported from four South American nations for the first time in a decade because Congress did not renew an unusual program that used flowers to fight drugs. World Business, Section W.

Warning: Optimistic Forecast Ahead
Optimism needs a warning label when it comes to forecasting productivity.
Jeff Madrick: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,730.96 up 17.16Nasdaq composite -- 1,922.38 up 39.8510-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.02% up 0.12The euro -- $0.8778 down 0.0081The dollar -- 134.27 yen up 0.37 Graph tracks the Philadelphia semiconductor index for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); RECORD INDUSTRY (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); EQUAL PAY (73%); JUDGES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); LITIGATION (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); WOMEN (68%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); CONSUMER SPENDING (65%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (65%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EMI GROUP LTD (92%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (52%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); STMICROELECTRONICS NV (52%)

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (52%); STM (PAR) (52%); STM (NYSE) (52%); STM (BIT) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



734 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 24, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: LEGISLATION; 
Democrats Review Changes in Bankruptcy

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
In the wake of the bankruptcy filing by the Enron Corporation, some Democrats in the Senate are weighing whether provisions of a bill to overhaul the bankruptcy code should be reconsidered. They are also looking at changes that would make the bill friendlier to consumers.
 Enron was clearly monitoring the bill before it filed for bankruptcy protection in December. The company lobbied the House on the matter, according to data gathered by the Center for Responsive Politics. 
 The Senate and House each passed a version of the bankruptcy bill last March, but a conference to reconcile the two versions, scheduled for Sept. 12, was canceled. The first meeting of the conference committee was in November, but it was too late to push the bill through before Congress adjourned. Any changes by Democrats to the Senate bill will slow efforts to reconcile the versions and finally pass legislation. 
Among the provisions being re-examined is a section in both versions that deals with certain asset-backed securities. As written, the bill would make it impossible for assets shifted off a company's balance sheet to a separate entity to be pulled back into a company's estate in a bankruptcy.
"If this goes through, the incentive for corporations will be to move more and more transactions off the books," said Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and an expert on bankruptcies. Enron made use of similar financings, she said, to raise cash without the loans appearing on its books.
A letter critical of the section, signed by 35 law professors, including Professor Warren, was sent yesterday to Senator Patrick J. Leahy, the Vermont Democrat who is chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and to F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.
"Congress seems poised to adopt, as part of the proposed bankruptcy legislation now in conference committee, a 'technical' amendment that would institutionalize and encourage one of the practices that has led to Enron's failure and its harsh consequences," the letter said. "Especially in this economy, with Enron only the latest example of what can happen when a company and its auditors do not make full public disclosure of financial circumstances, the Congress should not adopt this proposal."
The provision would give lenders an incentive to make loans to off-balance-sheet vehicles, knowing that their collateral would be protected in a bankruptcy filing, Professor Warren said. Without the benefit of the assets, some companies could go out of business.
Recently, a bankruptcy judge ruled that the LTV Corporation, the steel company, could retrieve inventory and receivables it appeared to have sold to special purpose vehicles. Without these assets, the judge said, LTV would be "forced to shut its doors and cease operations."
David Carle, a spokesman for Mr. Leahy, said the senator might hold a hearing to look at the section. "If a hearing would help the additional examination of the provisions and of the lessons to be learned from the Enron experience," Mr. Carle said, "then Senator Leahy has indicated he might call one."
Another element of the bankruptcy bill that has new relevance in the aftermath of the Enron filing is a provision in both the House and Senate versions that limits the ability of individuals filing for bankruptcy to shield their homes from creditors. Five states -- Florida, Iowa, Kansas, South Dakota and Texas -- have homestead exemptions that cover the value of the home. Given that Enron is based in Houston, the possibility exists that executives could use the exemption to shield assets if they filed for bankruptcy.
With differences in the House and Senate approaches, the homestead exemption is expected to be a crucial topic for the conference committee.
Senator Herb Kohl, Democrat of Wisconsin, who sponsored the Senate's homestead amendment, has urged Mr. Leahy to hold a hearing on the Enron links to the bankruptcy bill "in which the homestead exemption would likely be one of the key issues," Lynn Becker, a spokeswoman for Mr. Kohl, said.
Democrats, led by Mr. Leahy, are also considering changes to the bankruptcy bill that they say would make it friendlier to consumers.
The bill is viewed by some lawyers and its opponents in Congress as biased toward lenders like credit card companies and tough on consumers, who may be more likely to file for bankruptcy during the economic downturn.
The bill would make it more difficult for individuals to file under Chapter 7 of the bankruptcy code, which permits consumers and businesses to shed most of their unsecured debts. Instead, more individuals would be forced to file under Chapter 13, which requires debtors to come up with a plan to pay off at least a part of their debts, usually over three to five years. 
"The bill is pretty darn embarrassing in its present form, especially in the context of an economic downturn," said Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota, who opposed the bill. 
Among possible changes Democrats could make, Senate staff members said, could be a predatory-lending amendment, offered by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, that was defeated by one vote. The amendment would disallow a lender's claim if that lender had violated the Truth in Lending Act.
With so many potential changes to the bill under consideration, lawyers and lobbyists said bankruptcy reform could be delayed another year. "I think the odds are 50-50 right now," said David Goch, a legal consultant for the Commercial Law League of America, which represents bankruptcy lawyers. "Anything happening quickly is unlikely."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (78%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (67%); LAWYERS (66%); JUDGES (62%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%) BANKRUPTCIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; BANKRUPTCIES; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%); LTV CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (57%) ENRON CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (61%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); F JAMES SENSENBRENNER JR (58%); PATRICK LEAHY (58%) ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2002 



735 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2587 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
For Musicals, Big and Brassy Gives Way To Small And Affordable

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
IN November an unheralded and underfinanced new musical, "Little Ham," began a showcase production at the Hudson Guild Theater in Chelsea. After four weeks, to attract publicity and potential investors, the show converted to a union contract and had an official Off Broadway opening. Without expectations I went to see it, mainly because the week before Christmas there wasn't much else on my theatergoing schedule.
 Based on a 1936 comedy by Langston Hughes, the show, which has been in glacially paced development since the mid-1980's, turned out to be lively and well performed if old-fashioned. Set in Harlem, with a plot about gamblers, gangsters and a neighborhood caught up in the numbers racket, it had a fine, jazz-based score played by an onstage band, spirited and clever lyrics and an ingratiating cast of 14 actors, unfamiliar to me, working for union scale. It extended for a week and then, even with a string of sold-out performances, closed. 
 The Hudson Guild has only 99 seats, nowhere near enough to support the show financially, despite its shoestring budget. So to have the further life its producer, Eric Krebs, imagines for it, "Little Ham" needs more space. More space demands grander and more complicated choreography, a snazzier set, more ambitious lighting and sound design. And those things cost money. Which leaves Mr. Krebs, who put on the showcase and its extension at an unrecouped cost of some $150,000, with a decision that has become typical for producers of emerging musicals: How big a show should this be?
In some ways this is always the question a producer asks in trying to balance the art and commerce of putting on a show. But over the last few seasons, with more musicals crowding into the pipeline, musical-friendly theaters in short supply and Broadway economics more daunting than ever, the conventional wisdom regarding what size show belongs in what size theater has been challenged as never before. For one thing, smaller shows that can be exploited to fill a Broadway house and command Broadway prices have become the gold standard for producers who aren't corporations or affiliated with Mel Brooks. "Rent," which began life as a modestly conceived piece at the New York Theater Workshop, is one such show. "Chicago," a slightly enhanced concert version of the original Bob Fosse show that was plucked from the "Encores!" series at City Center, is another. And so is "Mamma Mia!," which strikes me as little more than a few recycled sugary pop songs and some excellent amplification equipment.
But obviously, not every attempt succeeds. Last year "A Class Act," a quaintly old-fashioned song and dance and story show with a small cast and a small orchestra, made the leap from the Manhattan Theater Club to the Walter Kerr Theater on Broadway, where it tanked. And this season's example, of course, is "Urinetown," which rode critical raves from the Fringe Festival to Off Broadway to the Henry Miller, where it opened in September. One reason it is a smash is that it costs the producers just over $200,000 a week to run it, less than half, maybe even less than a third of the weekly expenses for extravaganzas like "The Phantom of the Opera" and "The Lion King."
"The main thing I continually discover is, no one really knows anything," said Mr. Krebs, who has experience as a producer both on and off Broadway. "We take a major movie like 'Saturday Night Fever' and put in $10 million, and it fails. And we take a movie like 'The Producers' and put in $10 million, and it succeeds. 'Seussical,' with all those advance expectations, fails, and then 'Urinetown' becomes the darling of the establishment."

Born to Be Small
Still, audiences are now more keen for musicals than for plays, which means producers are eager to find ways to put them on the stage. And with a perpetual shortage of theaters with an orchestra pit, a stage wide and deep enough to accommodate an energetic choreographer and a sizable cast, fly space and wing space to allow scenery to be stored and moved around, and enough seats to pay for it all, they are looking to Off Broadway in ways they never have before. As a result, a flood of commercially produced musicals on a reduced scale have appeared in New York: "Tick, Tick . . . Boom!," "Bat Boy," "Reefer Madness," "Summer of '42," "Love, Janis" and "I Sing," to name a few presented in the last year.
Not that the Off Broadway musical is a new phenomenon. Shows like "The Fantasticks," "Threepenny Opera" and "Little Shop of Horrors" were famously successful in small downtown theaters, and the shoestring revue "I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change" is in its sixth year at the Westside Theater. But these and other shows like them never created a tradition of their own. And after "A Chorus Line" leaped from the Public Theater to Broadway, many other musicals -- "Falsettos" and "Sunday in the Park With George" come to mind -- were nurtured and developed by nonprofit theaters with the goal of earning a place in the commercial spotlight. But in their Off Broadway incarnations they were like children growing to maturity; all along, everyone knew that when they were ready, they'd leave home to seek their fortunes.
The point is that until now the musical as a genre has generally implied the indulgence of show-biz hoopla, extravagance and spectacle, which was possible only on Broadway. That is no longer so. But what has changed isn't that such grandiosity is now more possible elsewhere; it's that it is less possible anywhere.
Why so many musicals off Broadway? "Two obvious reasons," said Michael David of Dodger Theatricals, the group that developed and produced "Urinetown" off Broadway and on. "One is that people refuse to stop writing them. The other is that Broadway makes it too expensive for them to be done."

Money Isn't There
That brings us back to "Little Ham," which is a case in point. Mr. Krebs would like to produce it on Broadway; he has been in discussions about putting the show in a small theater (the 597-seat Helen Hayes), a midsize theater (the Belasco, 1,018 seats) and a large one (the Richard Rodgers, 1,368 seats). But so far he has been unable to raise the $3.5 million or so required to mount a Broadway production. (At the Hayes the cost would be somewhat less.)
"People all around the country are congratulating me on the show," he said. "However, when it comes to raising $3.5 million, it's a different story. One major investor told me, 'I liked it a lot, but I'm putting money in another show this spring.' Another said, 'My heart isn't in this kind of material.' I'm also hearing that it's too old-fashioned, that there are no stars and that you can't make money with a black musical. So what does this mean?"
One thing it means, Mr. Krebs said, is that the show could end up Off Broadway again in its next incarnation, but as it happens, the most capacious theaters -- the Variety Arts and the Union Square -- are booked. So at the moment, the most likely home for the show is the 287-seat John Houseman Theater, after "Puppetry of the Penis" exhausts the city's supply of adolescent-minded voyeurs. It has a larger stage than most small theaters and, perhaps more crucial, Mr. Krebs has its long-term lease. He said, "believe it or not, I can make the numbers work."
The size of the theater in which the show ends up has implications not only for Mr. Krebs, his investors and the performers (whose unions mandate higher salaries for Broadway shows) but for audiences as well. For example, the set is to be redesigned by Edward T. Gianfresco in any case, but his resources will be determined by the theater. According to Mr. Krebs's figures, the cost of the show's physical production (sets, costumes, lighting, sound, props and installation in the theater), which was about $26,000 for the showcase, would be $90,000 for a new production Off Broadway. For Broadway, the budget jumps to $550,000. That's a lot of added bells and whistles for an audience to take in. On Broadway, it's likely that four ensemble members would be added to the cast to give heft to the choreography and the vocal arrangements, and the band would probably increase to seven members from five.

Reinventing a Form
All of this makes me wonder whether what we are witnessing is the evolution of a whole new theatrical genre, a pocket-size musical born of economic necessity but recognized by both artists and producers as a creative opportunity. A rock-based, small-cast performance piece like John Cameron Mitchell's "Hedwig and the Angry Inch" laid the groundwork for this season's unearthing of Jonathan Larson's compact early work, "Tick, Tick . . . Boom!," not to mention Randal Myler's "Love, Janis." Bruce Buschel and Diane Paulus took the music of Laura Nyro and built a kind of dance narrative around it; the show, "Eli's Comin', " appeared at the Vineyard Theater last year. Next month "The Last Five Years," a two-character musical about the decline and fall of a young marriage by Jason Robert Brown, the composer of "Parade," begins performances at the Minetta Lane Theater. All of these strike me as attempts to reinvent the form in a new order of magnitude.
Many of these newer, smaller shows are written by younger people who are aware of Broadway's forbidding odds and want to get a foot in the door. So they write for chamber groups, work in contemporary musical idioms and bring with them distinctly contemporary attitudes characterized by archness, irony, sarcasm and self-mockery. Shows like "Bat Boy" and "Urinetown" consciously spoof the traditional musical even as they pay homage to it, as if the young composers are aware that their love of musical theater is a guilty pleasure. ("Little Ham" is an obvious exception; the composer, Judd Woldin, who wrote the score for the 1974 Tony-winning musical "Raisin," is 76.)
Thus many of these shows are intended for younger audiences, which is not only a good thing but also a requirement.
"We thought 'Bat Boy' would attract a hip audience as well as a musical theater audience, and we also thought we were setting a tone for a new talent pool," said Robyn Goodman, one of the show's producers. Ms. Goodman, who was also involved in "Tick, Tick . . . Boom!" and "A Class Act," said that in the end the producers of "Bat Boy" may have underestimated its potential as an audience-pleaser. The show suffered, along with the rest of the theater world after Sept. 11, but its future was already in doubt. Even though it found a core downtown audience, it lost its entire capitalization of $1.8 million.
"We definitely thought it should be Off Broadway," Ms. Goodman said. "But then 'Urinetown' comes along, moves to Broadway and not only survives but succeeds. There was talk when 'Bat Boy' was closing that maybe we should just raise more money and move to Broadway ourselves. Maybe we were too timid. It does seem like the rules have changed."

Recouping on Tour
The sentimental "Summer of '42," with its bittersweet movie plot and saccharine score, can't lay similar claim to hipness. But like "Bat Boy," at $1.7 million it is among the larger musicals to try to make a go of it Off Broadway, which is what makes it particularly noteworthy. No thorough statistics are kept for Off Broadway shows, but several producers interviewed for this article noted that they didn't think the number of Off Broadway musicals is increasing noticeably. What has increased, they said, is the number of musicals Off Broadway with high profiles and budgets that will accommodate substantial advertising. 
"We had anticipated taking the show to Broadway," said Donald Frantz, the general manager of "Summer of '42.". "That was the production plan, but when we were reminded of what Broadway had become, a place where the dramatic audience won't go to a musical even if it has considerable dramatic content, and where tourists only want to see the biggest show, we reconsidered." Still, Mr. Frantz said, in a 499-seat theater like the Variety Arts, earning the $85,000 to $90,000 a week it costs to break even is difficult.
"It's particularly tough to make it through the lean months of January and February," he said. "So where does the small musical go if it has a dramatic message and isn't about how many feet are tapping?" When the show closes on Sunday, it will have earned back none of its capitalization.
Still, the producers are not only reasonably sanguine about their experience; they are reasonably pleased. With nine actors and six musicians, the show is an economically sound candidate for touring to regional nonprofit theaters (the Pasadena Playhouse in California has expressed interest) and to cities with modest-size commercial auditoriums -- seating, say, 1,000 to 1,500 people -- where larger shows cannot afford to play and where mainstream rather than envelope-pushing entertainment is relished. As an established entity, it should also generate ancillary revenue in stock and amateur rights.
"What we needed to do was display the piece in New York," Mr. Frantz explained, adding that to do so on Broadway would have cost $3.5 million, more than twice what the show has lost so far. "So you see, it's not a disaster at all."
In the end, whatever the success of the current crop of shows, it is indisputable that the landscape of musical theater is expanding and that artistic developments are being accompanied by emerging business and marketing models. It seems to me that the longer this goes on, the more likely it is that audience expectations will begin to change, that theatergoers will grow accustomed to and hence more accepting of musicals in varying shapes and sizes. Predictions are dangerous, and it has never been fashionable in the theater business to express optimism, but this represents progress.

When and Where
Theaters and schedules for current shows in the Critic's Notebook article.
"CHICAGO," Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets: $42.50 to $90; $25 rush tickets at box office.
"I LOVE YOU, YOU'RE PERFECT, NOW CHANGE," Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200. Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2:30 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets, $49.50 to $60.
"THE LAST FIVE YEARS." Previews begin Feb. 12; opens March 3 at the Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7 p.m. Tickets, $20 to $60.
"LOVE, JANIS," Village Theater, 158 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100. Tuesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 7 and 10:30 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets, $35 to $75.
"MAMMA MIA!," Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 563-5544. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m. Tickets: $55 to $98.75.
"RENT," Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 7 p.m. Tickets, $25 to $85.
"SUMMER OF '42," Variety Arts Theater, 110 Third Avenue, at 13th Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. tonight at 8; tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets, $25 to $60.
"URINETOWN," Henry Miller, 124 West 43rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200. Mondays and Wednesdays through Fridays at 8 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sundays at 3 and 7:30 p.m. Tickets, $35 and $85.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A success story: The Broadway cast of "Urinetown," above, at the Henry Miller. The musical moved to Broadway after it received glowing reviews Off Broadway at the American Theater of Actors, right. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times); Off Broadway musicals: Above, Kate Jennings Grant and Ryan Driscoll in "Summer of '42," at the Variety Arts. Right, Cathy Richardson in the singing role of Janis Joplin in "Love, Janis," at the Village Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1); From left, Sean McCourt, Kerry Butler, Deven May and Kaitlin Hopkins in "Bat Boy," and Andrea Chamberlain, Marylee Graffeo, Jordan Leeds and Adam Hunter in "I Love You, You're Perfect, Now Change." (Carol Rosegg); (Joan Marcus); Jerry Dixon, Raul Esparza and Amy Spanger in "Tick, Tick . . . Boom!" (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); A scene from "Little Ham," a musical drawn from a 1936 comedy by Langston Hughes. It is set in the 1920's. (Donna Trinkoff)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); DANCE (78%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MUSIC (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); HOME PRICES (60%) THEATER 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



736 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
When You're in the Right, Obstinacy Can Be a Virtue

BYLINE:  By A. O. SCOTT 

 BODY:
The hero of "Beijing Bicycle" is Guei (Cui Lin), a young man from the countryside who finds a job in the Chinese capital working as a bike messenger. On one especially stressful day, he arrives at a high-class spa in search of a customer named Mr. Zhang, whom Guei interrupts in the midst of a massage. It turns out that this is the wrong Mr. Zhang, and the mix-up culminates in a comical standoff with the management, the summoning of uniformed security guards and a sarcastic piece of advice from a receptionist: "Try Zhang Yimou."
 That Mr. Zhang is one of the best-known filmmakers of the Fifth Generation, whose movies, mostly set in rural China in the recent and distant past, have been among the country's most prestigious cultural exports since the mid-1980's. Wang Xiaoshuai, the director of "Beijing Bicycle," is younger than Mr. Zhang, part of a generation that has concerned itself with naturalistic, sometimes harsh depictions of Chinese urban life. (Mr. Wang's previous film, an atmospheric Shanghai noir called "So Close to Paradise," was released in the United States last year.) 
 But the invocation of Zhang Yimou's name is more than a throwaway joke. Guei could be the male counterpart to one of Mr. Zhang's peasant heroines, like the young teacher in "Not One Less" or the indomitable women played, in at least a half-dozen movies, by Gong Li. He shares with them the virtue of obstinacy. The other characters -- from his boss and co-workers at the Fei Da Express Delivery Company to the gang of schoolboys who torment him -- pay repeated, grudging tribute to his incorrigible stubbornness. When his bicycle is stolen, he sets off in search of it, an enterprise less like trying to find a needle in a haystack than like looking for a particular bit of hay.
The bicycle, purchased from Fei Da for a portion of his weekly wages, is Guei's livelihood, and its disappearance (just after the incident at the spa) may remind you of Vittorio De Sica's "Bicycle Thief."
Mr. Wang has updated De Sica's lyrical fable of urban poverty to the bustling, grasping streets of contemporary Beijing, a city in perpetual and exhausting motion, where people are simultaneously trying to scratch out a living and participate in the frenetic consumer economy. The bike eventually comes into the possession of a petulant student named Jian (Li Bin), who values it as highly as Guei does, but for different reasons. For Jian it is a way to impress girls and to fit in with his classmates. The money that his father had promised would be spent on a new bike has instead gone to his stepsister's tuition, and the actions Jian takes to get what he wants seem justified to him. Losing the bike, which its owner eventually comes to claim, would mean, for Jian, a kind of social death, and he doesn't care that for Guei it might mean something worse.
The conflict between the two young men, which reaches a climax of surprising brutality, develops slowly. Mr. Wang has a graceful, almost classical sense of perspective. He positions his camera at a distance from the action, using the mazelike alleyways of the city's poor districts to produce precise, painterly configurations of light and shadow. "Beijing Bicycle" is at once somber and mysterious, comical and sad. It shows just how lonely a crowded city can be.
"Beijing Bicycle" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned) for a few violent scenes.

BEIJING BICYCLE

Directed by Wang Xiaoshuai; written (in Mandarin, with English subtitles) by Mr. Wang, Tang Danian, Peggy Chiao and Hsu Hsiao-Ming; director of photography, Liu Jie; edited by Liao Ching-Song; music by Wang Feng; art directors, Tsai Chao-Yi and Cao Anjun; produced by Ms. Chiao, Mr. Hsu and Han Sangping; released by Sony Pictures Classics. Running time: 113 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Cui Lin (Guei), Li Bin (Jian), Zhou Xun (Qin), Gao Yuanyuahn (Xiao), Li Shuang (Da Huan), Zhao Yiwel (Father) and Pang Yan (Mother).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (77%); MOVIE REVIEWS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); CITIES (72%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (50%) MOTION PICTURES 

PERSON: SCOTT, A O; WANG XIAOSHUAI 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: BEIJING BICYCLE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



737 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: 2 Japanese Insurance Giants Will Merge 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Two big Japanese insurers, Meiji Life and Yasuda Mutual Life, said today that they would merge, creating Japan's third-largest life insurer, in a move to cut costs and bolster returns at a time when the Japanese economy is sour and interest rates are near zero.
 The combination, to be completed by April 2004, will yield a company with current combined assets of 27.7 trillion yen ($208 billion) in assets. It is the first between major life insurers in Japan (Meiji now ranks fourth and Yasuda sixth), but analysts said it would not be the last. 
 A change in regulations last year allowed insurance companies, banks and brokerage houses to enter one another's businesses, but before today's announcement the only significant deals in the insurance industry had been alliances between life insurers and property and casualty insurers. 
Japan is the world's largest life insurance market, with nearly $400 billion in annual premiums paid, about 20 percent more than the United States. But the population is aging, leading to rising payouts and falling premium revenue -- because many in-force policies are becoming fully paid up and fewer young people are coming along to buy new policies.
On top of that, the majority of policies guarantee their holders rates of return that are now well above prevailing interest rates, which on short-term debt are almost zero. In these conditions, insurers are hard pressed to make money.
Profits on the core policy business at both Meiji Life and Yasuda Mutual Life fell more than 20 percent in the first half of the current fiscal year, which ends March 31, compared with the prior period. 
To narrow the gap between their obligations to policyholders and their increasingly meager profits from investments, life insurers have cut the guaranteed return on new policies to 1.5 percent, and they may halve that rate again later this year. The lower returns have made the policies less attractive to Japanese consumers.
The insurers are barred from reducing the guaranteed returns on existing policies, however, so they must look elsewhere to cut costs. The two merger partners plan to consolidate computer systems and close about 15 percent of their combined network of 2,000 branches. Between them, they hope to save 41 billion yen ($310 million) in costs.
The two companies, which have not yet chosen a name for the new entity, plan to eliminate about 2,000 of their nearly 50,000 salesmen as they grapple with the core of their distribution network: armies of middle-aged housewives who sell policies door to door.
"With the economy globalizing and new businesses entering the insurance industry, we need higher standards and a healthier financial statement," said Mikihiko Miyamoto, president of Yasuda Mutual.
Though Meiji Life and Yasuda Mutual Life, which are both more than 120 years old, hope to reduce fixed costs through their merger, they are unlikely to bolster their investment returns while Japan's stock market remains in a funk and bond yields are near historic lows. Unrealized gains on stocks held by the country's largest insurers fell by half in the first half of the current fiscal year, as the benchmark Nikkei 225 stock index plunged 25 percent.
"The quality of their assets will remain a problem as long as they are exposed to the equity market and interest rates are so low," said Runa Ichihari, an insurance analyst at Standard & Poor's in Tokyo. "These problems will not be solved by mergers."
Still, Ms. Ichihari said, other insurance companies will probably follow with merger deals. Investor speculation is already swirling around Sumitomo Life Insurance and Mitsui Mutual Life Insurance, whose sister companies in banking and property insurance have already merged, creating Sumitomo Mitsui Bank Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance.
Several medium-size life insurers never got that chance; six have collapsed since 1999.
Japanese life insurance companies also compete for business against the post office, which offers a number of financial services including savings accounts and life insurance; its insurance division has 60 trillion yen ($450 billion) in assets. Unlike private insurers, the Postal Life Insurance program has an implied government guarantee, making its borrowing costs lower and allowing it to offer higher rates of return. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (96%); LIFE INSURANCE (96%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MERGERS (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); TRENDS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); AGING TRENDS (72%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (72%); RANKINGS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%) LIFE INSURANCE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: MEIJI LIFE INSURANCE CO; YASUDA MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE; 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



738 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF 

BYLINE:  By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:
Lights Down, But Not Out
 As of today, fewer than half of Broadway's 38 Tony-eligible theaters are lit, a phenomenon that probably owes as much to the calendar as the state of the American theater. 
 January, of course, is always a tough month at the box office. For those shows that remain, however, many seem to be holding up, especially considering the dismal predictions after Sept. 11. Only one show, in fact, played to less than 70 percent capacity last week -- "Les Miserables" -- and its number was just a shade under. (Part of the high attendance, mind you, certainly had to do with Martin Luther King's Birthday and wintertime ticket offers.) Over all, attendance is down about 600,000 from the same period last year, while gross box office sales are off only about 5 percent. 
And more shows are coming; from the beginning of February to the end of April, 19 Broadway openings are planned.
Still, there are a handful of theaters available -- the Belasco, the Cort and the Richard Rodgers, among them -- and several producers are still considering bringing in productions before the deadline, including the current revival of Noel Coward's "Private Lives," a hit in Britain. (The rumored transfer of London's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," however, now looks unlikely.)
Of those producers, no one is busier than Elizabeth Ireland McCann. Ms. McCann, who is already producing Edward Albee's "Goat" and another play, "The Smell of the Kill," on Broadway this spring, said this week that she was considering bringing a third production: a revival of Herb Gardner's "I'm Not Rappaport." 
The production in question stars Judd Hirsch -- repeating his 1986 Tony-winning original role -- and Ben Vereen. The show originated at the Coconut Grove Playhouse in Florida, and is currently playing Ford's Theater in Washington, where Ms. McCann is traveling this weekend to check it out. The production is then scheduled to go to the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey, ending there on March 24, which would conceivably allow it to open on Broadway before the Tony deadline.
As for "The Smell of the Kill," Ms. McCann and the director, Christopher Ashley, have found their cast: Claudia Shear ("Dirty Blonde"), Lisa Emery ("Dinner with Friends") and Jessica Stone ("Grease") will play a trio of malicious, delicious wives. The dark comedy, by Michele Lowe, is to open in March at the Helen Hayes. 

Final Curtain at Site
Even while dealing with the impact of the slumping economy and a harsh fund-raising environment, one major Off Broadway theater company is now facing an even more frightening prospect: eviction.
The MCC Theater Company's home on West 28th Street is where the 1999 Pulitzer winner "Wit" played and where the MCC Company has been in residence since 1992. But the company recently learned that its run in the flower district will come to an end this summer. The company, founded by the actor Robert LuPone and Bernard Telsey, the casting director, had recently entered into negotiations to renew its lease and believed a deal was set. 
But just before the company was to sign the new lease, the founders say, the deal was rescinded by the landlord. 
"We survived Sept. 11," Mr. LuPone said, "only to find ourselves out in the street." Calls to the landlord, Oday Realty, were not answered.
The company, which opens a new play, "Runt of the Litter," on Thursday, says it will begin a capital campaign to raise money for a new home.

Contract Talks
Actors Equity, the actors' and stage managers' union, began talks this week with Lincoln Center Theater and the Roundabout Theater Company over the prickly issue of those companies' LORT contracts.
What's a LORT? The acronym stands for League of Resident Theaters, an organization that includes about 80 of the nation's large nonprofit theaters. Broadway productions staged by commercial producers operate under the standard Broadway production contract, which guarantees actors a minimum of $1,252 a week. Nonprofit companies, however, like Lincoln Center Theater and Roundabout, operate under LORT agreements when they produce Broadway shows, which allows them to pay a lower rate; the minimum is $728 a week.
Both Lincoln Center and Roundabout own Broadway houses -- the Vivian Beaumont and the American Airlines, respectively -- that operate under LORT agreements. But both companies also sometimes produce shows in other Broadway theaters and use the same contract. Equity, however, feels they should use the standard production contract when away from home. 
Nonprofits generally argue that the LORT agreement is the only way they can do large productions, like the Roundabout's recent revival of "Follies," without breaking the bank.

And the Beat Went on
Tonight, at a little past 8 at the Imperial, the conductor will raise his baton and a little history will be made, as "Les Miserables," with 6,138 performances, becomes the second-longest-running musical in Broadway history, passing "A Chorus Line," and still chasing "Cats."
For eight musicians in the pit, it will be a very familiar tune because those eight -- David Gale, Pete Hyde, Brian Koonin, Batia Lieberman, Marion Pinheiro, John Rojak, Mitchell Weiss, and Robert Zottola -- have been with the show since it opened on March 12, 1987. 
"I had no idea it would be a life sentence," joked Mr. Zottola, 65, who plays the trumpet. "We expected if we were lucky we'd get a couple of years out of it. And we're still here."

Along the Way
*Billy Connolly, the Scottish comic and actor, will appear for one night only at Town Hall on Feb. 23. 
*Bill Irwin ("Fool Moon") will replace Bill Murray in "The Guys," a play by Anne Nelson about a fire captain who loses men on Sept. 11. The play, which stars Sigourney Weaver, runs from Tuesday through Feb. 9 at the Flea, 41 White Street, TriBeCa.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the original members of the orchestra for "Les Miserables," front, from left, Brian Koonin, Pete Hyde and Robert Zottola, and at rear, from left, David Gale, Batia Lieberman and Marion Pinheiro. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); PAPER CONTAINER MFG (77%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (70%); PAPER & PACKAGING (57%) THEATER 

ORGANIZATION: MCC THEATER COMPANY; ACTORS EQUITY ASSOCIATION; ROUNDABOUT THEATER CO 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (76%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

TITLE: LES MISERABLES (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



739 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
EMC's Loss in 4th Quarter Was Not as Deep as Feared

BYLINE:  By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
To the delight of Wall Street, EMC, the data storage company that became a widely held technology bellwether during the 1990's, yesterday reported a narrower loss than expected in the last quarter of 2001 and projected a return to profitability as early as this spring.
 EMC, which is based in Hopkinton, Mass., said that it lost $70.2 million, or 3 cents a diluted share, on revenue of $1.51 billion in the quarter. The consensus expectation of analysts had been that it would lose 7 cents a share on sales of $1.31 billion. While the quarterly results were off sharply from a year ago, when EMC earned $562.9 million, or 25 cents a share, on revenue of $2.62 billion, they provided evidence that EMC was rebounding faster than expected from huge losses in the third quarter of last year. 
 EMC said it benefited from strong growth in business segments like storage gear linked together in networks, software and storage services. The company also had more savings than expected from cost-cutting measures. 
The company said that customers remained cautious about investing in information technology. It endorsed projections that overall spending would be flat or down slightly this year unless there was a strong economic recovery. But it said the parts of the technology business that EMC deals with had already begun to bounce back from levels that were depressed even before the uncertainty created by Sept. 11.
"The environment felt a little more like a normal business environment," said William Teuber, the chief financial officer, in a conference call with analysts before trading began yesterday.
Investors responded quickly, sending EMC's shares as high as $17.21 before they settled back to end at $16.83, up 16 percent from Wednesday's close.
"This is more of a story of EMC executing well than the information technology market really strengthening," said James Berlino, an analyst at Merrill Lynch. "The things that are in their control, they're controlling."
EMC said that it had completed nearly all of the domestic portion of the 4,000 job cuts it had announced in response to plunging sales last year. EMC said the cuts and other cost-saving measures saved it $157 million in the fourth quarter. 
EMC's projections of a 5 percent decline in revenue for the quarter, to $1.44 billion, are rosier than Wall Street's current estimate of $1.26 billion.
The company said that the improving business climate in the last three months was most evident in the growth of storage network equipment sales, up 52 percent from the previous quarter, and software, up 45 percent. 
Some analysts were particularly impressed with the assertion of Joseph Tucci, the company's president and chief executive, that EMC had achieved the results without resorting to discounting at the end of December to close pending sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (88%); NETWORK STORAGE TECHNOLOGY (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EMC CORP 

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: JOSEPH M TUCCI (58%) FEDER, BARNABY J 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



740 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Jobless Claims Are Now Near A 6-Month Low 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
The number of workers filing new claims for state unemployment benefits fell last week to the lowest level in almost six months, the Labor Department reported today, a sign that companies are slowing the pace of dismissals.
 "We are getting near the end of the recession," said Steve Cochrane, senior economist at Economy.com in West Chester, Pa. 
Companies are "positioning themselves for the recovery." 
 Initial jobless claims fell by 15,000, to 376,000 in the week ended Saturday, from a revised 391,000 the week before, the report said. That is the lowest level since the last week of July, and compares with an average 456,000 weekly claims filed in the final three months of 2001.
Analysts had expected that jobless claims would rise to 395,000 last week.
Reductions in initial claims are one of the first signs that a recession may be drawing to a close.
The four-week moving average of unemployment benefit claims, a less volatile indicator, fell to 404,250 last week, the lowest level since the week ended Sept. 1, from 413,000, the Labor Department said.
The number of people continuing to collect jobless benefits fell in the week ended Jan. 12 to 3.46 million -- the lowest since the week ended Sept. 22 -- from 3.51 million the previous week. That decline suggested that hiring may be starting to pick up in expectation of increased demand.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph tracks initial jobless claims highlighting 4-week moving average from August through January.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (96%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); RECESSION (90%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



741 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Health Improves, but Racial Disparities Remain 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Americans made advances against a wide variety of diseases and other health threats in the 1990's, but glaring racial and ethnic disparities remain, the government reported today.
 The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention looked at 17 "health indicators," including infant mortality, suicide and stroke, that were broken down into racial and ethnic groups. 
 For all but one of the indicators -- low birth weight -- the statistics improved for the population as a whole. The death rate dropped 9 percent for stroke, 15 percent for car accidents and more than 28 percent for homicides. Syphilis was down more than 80 percent, to fewer than 3 cases per 100,000 people in 1998. 
The percentage of babies with low birth weight rose to 7.6 percent in 1998, from 7 percent in 1990.
But while the indicators for racial and ethnic minorities also improved in the 1990's, the numbers for whites tended to improve faster.
From 1990 to 1998, for example, the breast cancer death rate fell 4 percent among black women and 13 percent among Hispanic women. For white women, it fell 18 percent.
Among the other gaps were the rate of tuberculosis, 8 times as high for blacks and 6 times as high for Hispanics as for whites; homicide, 10 times as high for blacks and 4 times as high for Hispanics; and syphilis, more than 30 times as high for blacks and 3 times as high for Hispanics.
"In many ways, Americans of all ages and in every racial and ethnic group have better health today," Surgeon General David Satcher said. "But our work isn't done until all infants have the same chance to thrive, all mothers have equal access to prenatal care, and all Americans are equally protected from cancer, heart disease and stroke."
Researchers said the reasons for the gaps were different for each indicator and even for different parts of the country. "Certainly some are due to social and economic factors, and others behavioral factors," said Ken Kettel, a statistician at the centers.
The centers also reported that death rates from lung, breast, colorectal and prostate cancer fell during the 1990's, though not as much for blacks as for whites. Researchers credited less smoking and early detection, though they urged more study to figure out why prostate cancer deaths dropped. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (92%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); WOMEN (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (90%); ETHNICITY (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); CANCER (89%); PREGNANCY COMPLICATIONS (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (78%); STROKES (78%); TUBERCULOSIS (77%); INFANT MORTALITY (77%); STATISTICAL METHOD (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); HOMICIDE (75%); BREAST CANCER (74%); HEART DISEASE (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (65%); PROSTATE DISEASE (64%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (91%) CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



742 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 902 words

PERSON: Amanda M. Burden 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
Planning Chief Tries to Rub Off the Socialite Tag

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN 

 BODY:
AMANDA M. BURDEN, a compulsive civil servant cursed -- at least she thinks so -- by the lissome looks, banner breeding and bank account of a socialite, extends a cool, unadorned hand that, like the rest of her, seems made of filigree, not flesh. 
 She apologizes for the sniffles muddying her Hepburn-esque diction: picture Audrey wearing a honey-blond ponytail and a simple black Calvin Klein pantsuit and, voila, you have Ms. Burden, New York City's earnest and elegant new director of the Department of City Planning and chairwoman of its Planning Commission. She has a cold; she's toughing it out. Not for her to miss work, not now that she has the clout to transform this lackluster commission from "more of a regulatory body" to a proactive dynamo in its chairwoman's image. 
 "I've always had this fanatical need to make a contribution, and I've always had a desire to build something permanent," she says. "This is the opportunity of a lifetime for me. The chairman sets the agenda for what can and should happen in the city, and articulates it, and that's what I know I can do." As director, she runs a department of 230.
Two jobs at one respectable salary: $162,800. Two roles that Ms. Burden, who repeatedly refers to herself as "a child of the 60's" deeply affected by John F. Kennedy's "ask not" speech, expects to be pivotal now that the city has been forced to resurrect itself, architecturally and economically, from the ravages of Sept. 11. First on the docket is the rebuilding of downtown to make it competitive with the rest of the city and make it a multi-use, multifaceted neighborhood. 
Ms. Burden hails from the "make no small plans" school and deviates from standard planner playbooks in that her goal isn't just producing the proper plan, but also seeing it materialize. Like tiny Paley Park, her first project, and one with family ties. And Battery Park City's esplanade. 
Her other qualifications include a master's degree in urban planning from Columbia University, where her thesis on recycling urban garbage won the program's top award; a stint with the Urban Development Corporation; and a mentor in the urbanologist William H. Whyte, who taught her that a city's true lifeblood is in the vitality of its streets and public spaces. 
So why do the media persist in labeling her a socialite as it chronicles her table-hopping on the arm of Charlie Rose, the television personality she's been seeing for a decade (her only other significant other is her pug, Minnie)?
An ominous scowl crosses her face: "It's horrible, really, the socialite thing; it's like some kind of tattoo you can't rub off."
She was not born to shop (waste of time). Or decorate her Upper East Side digs to death (dull), though she does confess an addiction to transplanting shrubs at her weekend spot in the Catskills and at Mr. Rose's place in Bellport, Long Island. She never tried to be a chip off the old block, which in her case would have meant making a career of being unbearably beautiful. "I didn't have the talent for that," she says through clenched teeth. Since talking about her famously fashionable mother, Babe Paley, tends to be a white-knuckle experience for her, better to tackle it later.
SHE pours water into a plastic cup to chase down the grilled cheese sandwich she bolted at her desk between the wall-to-wall meetings she's been attending since her promotion after 12 years as a commission member. Then she shuts the door of her big bland office at 22 Reade Street -- she lost weight worrying whether Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg would make it hers -- and tucks herself into a corner of a worn brown leather sofa. She does not take up much space. 
As for decorating this space, forget about it. She did put up a skyline sketch of Battery Park, homage to her most influential job, before this one, as vice president for planning and design of the Battery Park City Authority. "When we got there in 1983, there was nothing except sand."
On the corner table are a smattering of family photos and a timely birthday present (she turned 58 last week): a silver-framed shot of her with the mayor just after her coronation at City Hall. She says she and he are on the same page on "conveying a sense of the fantastic possibilities for the future of this city" and getting it to a place where "tragedy becomes opportunity."
Ms. Burden was raised by a series of nannies in a silver-spoon setting on Long Island's Gold Coast. William S. Paley, the CBS magnate, became her stepfather when she was 3. (Her father was Stanley Mortimer, the Standard Oil heir.) She and her mother were not close. "She kept her distance," she says. "She was just incredibly beautiful, so always perfect." It was Babe Paley's mission to be the most beautiful woman in every room she entered, but that room rarely contained her children.
Ms. Burden escaped to boarding school at 14 and never went back home. At 18, she became engaged to Carter Burden, owner of The Village Voice and New York magazine, and left Wellesley to marry him, have two children and assist in his successful campaign for City Council. They divorced in 1972 but stayed friendly. 
In 1976, she finished her undergraduate studies at Sarah Lawrence, and in 1980 she married Steve Ross, the Warner Communications czar; their divorce, 16 months later, was the antithesis of friendly. Did it sour her on marriage? "Yep," she says, sounding not a bit like a socialite.

GRAPHIC: Photo: AMANDA M. BURDEN (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); CITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: CITY PLANNING DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

CHARLIE ROSE (50%) FINN, ROBIN; BURDEN, AMANDA M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



743 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 878 words

PERSON: Pierre Bourdieu 

HEADLINE: Pierre Bourdieu, 71, French Thinker and Globalization Critic 

BYLINE:  By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Pierre Bourdieu, a leading French sociologist and maverick intellectual who emerged as a public figure here in the 1990's by championing the antiglobalization movement and other antiestablishment causes, died in a Paris hospital on Wednesday. He was 71.
 The cause was cancer, friends said. 
 The author of 25 books, many translated into English, Mr. Bourdieu was particularly interested in exploring the formative roots of class distinctions and power structures. He applied his theories to a broad range of topics, including education, television, masculinity, intellectuals, the media, language and poverty. 
While his influence has long been felt in academic circles in France and the United States, Mr. Bourdieu assumed a public role in the tradition of Emile Zola and Jean-Paul Sartre only in the last decade, when he became what Le Monde called "the intellectual reference" for movements opposed to free market orthodoxy and globalization.
In the process, he also turned his guns on television talk-show hosts for delivering "cultural fast food" and on many fellow intellectuals whom he accused of abusing their privileged status in France by opining on issues about which they knew little. Counterattacks by intellectuals like Alain Finkelkraut and BernardHenry Levi ensured that he remained in the public eye. Some critics said that he had grown increasingly sectarian in recent years. 
Yet while he described his political position as "to the left of the left," meaning that he considered the Socialist Party to have sold out, he stood at the heart of France's intellectual establishment. He held the chair of sociology at the College de France, an elite government-backed think tank, he taught at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales and he edited a sociology journal.
One measure of his iconoclastic renown in France was that the report of his death was the lead story in Le Monde. Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, himself a Socialist, described Mr. Bourdieu as a master of contemporary sociology and said that "his works made him the leader of a school of thought that applied incisive criticism to the capitalist society."
One of Mr. Bourdieu's central theses was that social and cultural breeding were critical to achieving status and power, but his own life's story suggested that, at least for some, France could work as a meritocracy.
Born on Aug. 1, 1930, in Denguin in the foothills of the Pyrenees, Mr. Bourdieu had a peasant farmer-turned-postman as a father. Gascon, now a moribund regional dialect, was spoken at home. Young Pierre nonetheless proved a bright student, attending the region's best high school before gaining entrance to the Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris, the traditional cradle of French intellectuals, where he studied philosophy before turning to sociology. 
Although he graduated at the top of his class, he felt something of an outsider as a poor man surrounded by children of the French elite, and that feeling continued even as he became part of the French intelligentsia. "A lot of what I've done has been in reaction to the Ecole Normale," he said in an interview with The New York Times a year ago. "I think if I hadn't become a sociologist, I would have become very anti-intellectual. I was horrified by that world."
Beginning in 1958 he taught for two years at the University of Algiers just as the Algerian war for independence from France was gaining momentum. From this experience emerged his first book, "The Sociology of Algeria." After returning to France to teach in Lille and Paris, he married the former Marie-Claire Brisard in 1962. She and their children, Jerome, Emmanuel and Laurent, survive him.
Later, while assuming an ever more prominent role as a sociology teacher, he stepped up the pace of his publications. "Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgment of Taste," published in France in 1979 and in the United States in 1984, was named one of the 20th century's 10 most important works of sociology by the International Sociological Association. Among his other influential works are "State Nobility: Elite Schools in the Field of Power," "Homo Academicus," "Pascalian Meditations," "On Television" and "The Weight of the World: Social Suffering in Contemporary Societies," which he edited.
A soft-spoken man who seemed to enjoy provoking other intellectuals, Mr. Bourdieu had a fatalistic view of the social and economic possibilities available to most people, believing that they entered adulthood with the experiences that would determine their success or failure. "The point of my work is to show that culture and education aren't simply hobbies or minor influences," he told The Times. "They are hugely important in the affirmation of differences between groups and social classes and in the reproduction of those differences."
Persuaded that most people in France did not have a fair chance to rise in society, he came to favor the underdog, above all those fighting against perceived injustices wrought by unfettered capitalism. 
Among those whom he supported was Jose Bove, who gained fame in 1999 by leading small farmers in France on an attack against McDonald's. Today, Mr. Bove was among those remembering Mr. Bourdieu warmly. "For him," Mr. Bove said, "life itself was a commitment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pierre Bourdieu in 1998. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); SOCIOLOGY (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); WRITERS (77%); MEN (77%); MOUNTAINS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (70%); POLITICS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); CANCER (57%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

RIDING, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) PYRENEES (79%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools 

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



744 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Dust Stirs Worry in Tour of a Shuttered School 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH 

 BODY:
When a group of teachers from the High School of Economics and Finance went back to tour their shuttered school next to the World Trade Center site, city officials assured them that it had been thoroughly cleaned. The building, which is closer than any other school to ground zero, has been closed since the terrorist attacks and is scheduled to reopen Jan. 30.
 But as the teachers began walking the halls on Tuesday, they found a thick layer of dust in the faculty lounge and in one of the elevators. Worried that the dust might be toxic, a union official who accompanied them promptly declared the building unsafe, and now many teachers and parents say they will not return until they are sure that the building has been adequately cleaned. 
 "We listened for two hours while they told us the place was spotless," said Scott Shaffner, one of the teachers who was present on the tour, organized by the United Federation of Teachers. "Then I touched the ceiling duct of one of the elevators, and my hand came out black -- like tar.
"The feeling was, they weren't being up front, and it makes you wonder what else wasn't done," Mr. Shaffner said.
Last night more than 100 students, teachers, parents, and officials from the New York City Board of Education met at the school, at 100 Trinity Place, to discuss safety issues and hear from environmental experts. 
Bernard Orlan, the board's director for health and safety, said the dust remaining in the school is not a safety hazard. The building, which was occupied by the city's Office of Emergency Management in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks, was given a thorough environmental cleaning in December and January, he said. The air was then tested inside and outside the building and found to be safe. The problem, he said, arose when repairs were made to the school's ventilation system and old but harmless dust spread into the air.
"Basically the building is dirty but not environmentally unsafe," said Margie Feinberg, a spokeswoman for the Board of Education. It is being cleaned now to eliminate surface dirt, she added.
Neil Feldscher, a spokesman for Emteque Corp., the environmental firm hired by the school's parent-teacher association, said he conducted tests in the building yesterday but had not collected enough information to make a final judgment.
Students at the school, which was founded in 1993 and specializes in preparing students for careers in finance, have been sharing space at Norman Thomas High School, at 33rd Street and Park Avenue, since Sept. 11. But some parents have moved their children to other schools. The enrollment at Economics and Finance is now 628, about 100 less than it was at the start of the school year, Ms. Feinberg said.
Altogether, five school buildings in the area remain closed, with their students attending classes elsewhere: the High School of Economics and Finance and the High School for Leadership and Public Service at 90 Trinity Place, which are scheduled to reopen Jan. 30, and Public Schools 89, 234 and 150, which are scheduled to reopen Feb. 4, Ms. Feinberg said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Allysa Ramdass, 16, Jolanta Brodka, 15 and Yana Kemelman, 16, outside their school, the High School of Economics and Finance, for a meeting yesterday. The school is closer than any other to ground zero. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CHILDREN (78%); TEACHER UNIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); CITIES (77%); HIJACKING (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); HVAC SYSTEMS (72%); AIRLINES (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; AIR POLLUTION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (56%) BOARD OF EDUCATION (NYC) 

PERSON: WORTH, ROBERT F 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



745 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: Paterson's Mayor Indicted On Charges of Trading City Contracts for Gifts 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
The mayor of Paterson was indicted today on federal charges of taking cash, gifts, 14 vacation trips, home improvements and payments for "female companionship" from city vendors in return for contracts.
 The 40-count indictment against the mayor, Martin G. Barnes, grew out of a nearly two-year investigation of the activities of United Gunite, a sewer repair and paving contractor operating in Paterson and several other New Jersey cities. Top company officials pleaded guilty last year to bribing unnamed municipal officials in the region and have been cooperating with prosecutors. 
 The indictment comes just 10 days after Mr. Barnes announced that he would seek re-election in May. A popular Republican, Mr. Barnes, 53, has been the mayor of New Jersey's third-largest city since he was appointed to fill a vacancy in 1997. He was elected to an interim term that fall and, without major opposition, to a full term in 1998. 
But at a news conference at his office here, Christopher J. Christie, the United States attorney for New Jersey, said the many gifts that Mr. Barnes is accused of accepting from city contractors showed him to be "a mayor more interested in serving himself than serving the people." 
Mr. Christie said that in addition to soliciting thousands of dollars' worth of trips and other gifts for himself and his wife and girlfriends, the mayor siphoned $20,000 from his campaign fund to pay a girlfriend's expenses, filed false tax returns and sought city reimbursement for nonbusiness travel. He is also accused of defrauding the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development of $29,000 in grant money, in a scheme to renovate a building he owned.
Because of the long investigation and the guilty pleas from United Gunite officials, today's indictment came as no surprise to Mr. Barnes, said his lawyer, Jack Arseneault, who has been monitoring the work of the grand jury. Mr. Arseneault said his client denied the charges, which he believed grew out of attempts by a United Gunite official, Gerald David Free, to win leniency at sentencing on other federal bribery charges. He called Mr. Free, a former close friend of Mr. Barnes's, an "admitted con man."
"I am conceding that on some occasions he did accept gifts from Gerry Free," Mr. Arseneault said. "But you will be hard pressed to find anything other than personal connections there, and there is nothing in any of it that is beneficial for the company and detrimental to the city."
If convicted of the most serious charges, Mayor Barnes could face up to 20 years in prison. Under an agreement with the United States attorney's office, Mr. Barnes is scheduled to surrender to Federal Bureau of Investigation agents in the next two days for his first court appearance.
The indictment also came as no surprise to members of the Paterson City Council, who have raised questions publicly about the mayor's frequent travel and the absence of competition for some lucrative city contracts in the last year.
"It all began to shed a bad light on the city," said Councilman William Kline, referring to the claims by United Gunite executives that they had bribed unnamed Paterson officials. "What they were saying contradicted what the mayor was saying to us, and we were asking questions and trying to do whatever we could do to uplift the city."
Aslon Goow, a member of the Council and longtime critic of Mayor Barnes, said that in the last year he and others thought they could not trust the mayor, who had long refused to meet with them to discuss his policies and initiatives. 
"I think this is a sad day for Paterson," Mr. Goow said.
Bob Grant, a spokesman for Mayor Barnes, who is black, said that with the indictment the mayor "joins a lengthening list of African-Americans who have come under scrutiny since being elected to office."
But Mr. Christie, the prosecutor, insisted that race had played no role in this or any other corruption inquiry by his office.
Mr. Christie said, "Millions of dollars in city contracts" were secured for companies who agreed to "join the Barnes Team" -- the words he said the mayor used. "Whatever his whim was, he was going to get them to pay for it." 
The 49-page indictment indeed reads like a primer for conspicuous consumption, alleging that Mr. Barnes pressured various unnamed contractors to finance trips to Washington; Nashville; Louisville, Ky.; Rio de Janeiro; Aruba; and to a castle in Bristol, England. Some of the trips were taken with his wife, according to the indictment, while others were taken with various girlfriends.
The six-day trip to Rio de Janeiro was taken by Mr. Barnes alone, said Mr. Christie, who added that the mayor then importuned the contractor who was paying the bills to arrange for female companionship for him when he arrived. When asked, the prosecutor would not characterize the companion as a prostitute.
On another occasion, according to the indictment, Mr. Barnes had a contractor build a swimming pool with a waterfall in his backyard.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Martin G. Barnes of Paterson, N.J., was indicted yesterday on corruption charges. His lawyer said the gifts Mr. Barnes took from contractors were not illegal, because they were based on personal relationships. (Warren Westura/Herald News, via Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); MAYORS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); CITIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); ETHICS (66%) BRIBERY; ETHICS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED GUNITE CORP 

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD; BARNES, MARTIN G (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) PATERSON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



746 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Layoffs Start In New Jersey As Towns Brace for Cuts 

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Even during his campaign for governor, James E. McGreevey warned New Jerseyans that a yawning budget deficit would cause pain. Now, as governor, he has begun to inflict it.
 So from state government employees to local governments, the question today was where his knife would cut the deepest. 
 About 600 state employees, most of them in technical jobs outside Civil Service protection, ended their day Wednesday with brusque notices saying they were laid off. In the process, Mr. McGreevey eliminated the Office of State Planning, headquarters for the state's nationally recognized efforts to control sprawl. 
And that may be just the start. His staff has also put already nervous Civil Service unions on notice by warning that some layoffs of regular employees, of the kind that roiled the state under Gov. Jim Florio a dozen years ago, may also be coming.
And Mr. McGreevey has told New Jersey's towns and municipalities, where costs have been rising steadily, that their nearly automatic annual increases in state aid are a thing of the past, and that they will get no increase for the new budgets many of them have just begun to draw up.
The new governor, who took office on the 15th, has put some of the blame for the state's budget problems on his Republican predecessor, the former acting governor Donald T. DiFrancesco. Some Democratic officials went out of their way today to pin the impending pain on the Republicans, and Governor McGreevey himself declared that he would stir a political hornet's nest by auditing, and perhaps trying to reopen, the $500 million, seven-year contract the departed Republican administration signed in 1998 with Parsons Infrastructure and Technology Group to operate New Jersey's auto emissions testing program.
At the end of the day today, many of the men and women who had been laid off were cleaning out their desks and hoping that their jobs might yet be saved. After all, they said, the 600 jobs that were cut would save only about $25 million according to the governor's own calculation. Of that, the 27 people in the Office of State Planning accounted for only about $2 million of the $2.8 billion budget shortfall Mr. McGreevey has said he must erase.
"Everybody was shocked," said Kathleen Bird, who had been the spokeswoman for the planning office. Like the others, she received a letter telling her that her "duties and obligation to report to work cease immediately" and that she would get two weeks' severance pay. Some of her colleagues wept, Ms. Bird said, and others were simply numb.
In a note of concern, champions of managing the state's rapid growth added that the cost in sprawl could be much greater if the planning office is left vacant.
"What McGreevey said was that these people are expendable, they're unnecessary or they're political hires," said Barbara Lawrence, executive director of New Jersey Future, a controlled-growth advocacy group. "But in the case of the Office of State Planning we are losing the best professionals you can hire. They are the brains behind the concept of smart growth in New Jersey."
Mayors and managers of New Jersey's more than 500 municipalities have been left scratching their heads over the impact of Governor McGreevey's freeze in municipal aid, which towns and cities apply to abating their high property taxes. Officials in several wealthy towns said today that Mr. McGreevey's ample warning of a budget crisis prepared them to expect no additional help. But for large cities, where state aid accounts for a disproportionate share of municipal revenues, the prospect of a freeze brought a sense of foreboding.
New Brunswick, for example, had been counting on a 3 percent annual increase to keep up with inflation, said Thomas Loughlin, the city administrator. A freeze would amount to $510,000 lost, he said. "We're going to feel the impact here, there's no question of that."
Eric Maurer, business administrator for Morristown, was among the town officials who said they were in the dark about the impact of the governor's freeze in state aid levels. "We're operating in an information vacuum," he said.
Mr. Maurer said officials from the previous administration had promised Morristown a $100,000 increase in state aid, to $3.8 million. The town is already planning to raise the tax rate by an amount equal to $180 for a typical $200,000 home, he said. If state aid is frozen at the current $3.7 million aid level, that tax increase will grow by an additional $16.
In Newark, Mayor Sharpe James said his city received about a quarter of its $432 million budget from Trenton, but he did not know how much it would be hurt. "Recognizing the budget crunch, all of us have to share in that pain," he said.
A spokesman for Parsons Group said that it was ready to work with the new governor in examining the state's auto emissions testing contract, but that the engineering company was not prepared to reopen the contract, as Mr. McGreevey had suggested. Matching the discussion of the state's budget problems, Parsons seemed prepared to do the same as the newly empowered Democrats: blame the departed Republicans.
"We welcome the opportunity to work with the McGreevey administration to show how effective the system has been for New Jersey motorists," said Bob Sommer, the spokesman. "We could not agree with him more that some of the previous administration's contract specifications and a condensed time frame were the cause of many of the start-up problems, and they bear further review." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); SEVERANCE PAY (71%); EMISSIONS (50%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: PARSONS INFRASTRUCTURE & TECHNOLOGY GROUP INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF STATE PLANNING (NJ) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (66%)

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



747 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Hoping for Calm, Preparing For Strife at Economic Talks 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

 BODY:
Even many of the veterans of wild protest melees at Seattle and Genoa say there would be something unseemly about violent protests in New York, still healing from the wounds of Sept. 11, when the World Economic Forum starts meeting next week.
 Despite efforts to keep demonstrations under control, both the police and demonstrators say there is no way to be certain what will happen if, as expected, thousands of demonstrators arrive in New York to protest the policies of the world's industrial leaders. Although most of the opponents of global capitalism say they are committed to nonviolent protest, others are planning to turn out in helmets and riot gear and some are expecting that some property damage could be a part of the street activities. 
 About 3,000 leaders of corporations and governments as well as academic, religious and cultural figures will be at the meeting at the Waldorf-Astoria in Midtown Manhattan from Thursday to Feb. 4, discussing topics as varied as economic growth, foreign policy, the role of the chief corporate executive and what gastronomy can reveal about foreign cultures. 
The meeting, moved to New York from its longtime home in Davos, Switzerland, after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, has historically given corporation executives a chance to sit down with government officials behind closed doors -- for the price of a very expensive ticket. 
The protesters, who include mainstream student and union groups and more radical elements, plan street demonstrations focusing on such issues as declaring war on poverty, racism and mass layoffs, workers' rights and ways to reduce world debt.
Students interviewed in New York insisted that they were not planning to confront the police directly or to crash through barricades. Instead, they said, they will use less radical tactics than those used in Genoa, Italy, last summer, when one protester was killed during an economic summit meeting. 
Some also said they thought it was more important to demonstrate opposition to economic globalization than to ensure that public activities are subdued as a sign of respect for the losses of Sept. 11. 
"If the movement can orchestrate a significant show of force in New York City right now," one student said, "we can show the world that we can do it anywhere, anytime."
As Larry Holmes, a spokesman for the International Action Center, one of the groups expected, said yesterday, "We're back after 9/11, more sure of our cause."
Many protest organizers feel that the World Economic Forum, more than the World Trade Organization or the economic meeting of industrialized nations called the Group of Eight, is a more appropriate target for protests against global capitalism because it consists largely of corporate representatives and is not, at its core, a meeting of governments.
The protesters' groups, formed out of the labor, student and environmental movements, have names like the Workers Democracy Network, War Is Not the Answer Coalition and the First Quarter Storm Movement.
Protesters say the nature of the demonstrations will be shaped by the nature of the police response.
"A current concern that we are facing now, as we prepare to voice our concerns in the streets, is that we are not sure what type of police-enforced climate we are walking into," said Yvonne Liu, a Columbia University junior from Bayside, Queens, who is among the organizers of Students for Global Justice, a group formed in mid-December.
The police are also keenly aware of the public relations implications of the event. "Hopefully, we will not have to arrest anybody," said the new police commissioner, Raymond W. Kelly. "We recognize everyone's right to demonstrate peacefully, and we are going to do everything we can to see that that happens." 
The World Economic Forum's usual meeting place, in Davos, does not attract the kind of attention that it is expected to draw in New York. This year, said the organization's spokesman, Charles D. McLean, in his headquarters in Geneva, reporters' requests for access to this meeting exceeded all others in the group's 32 years.
"Last year we accredited 500 journalists," Mr. McLean said. "This year we've had thousands of requests, and we can still only accommodate a fraction of those who want to attend. It's going to be shoulder to shoulder."
Because of that, and because of the aftermath of Sept. 11, many protesters said they did not expect unrest other than textbook forms of civil disobedience. 
They added that only a very slim minority of people, perhaps 200 in a group of several thousand, would ever condone property damage. 
"Basically, the general feeling among most people is that this is not the moment for that," said David R. Graeber, an assistant professor of anthropology at Yale University, who is a member of the New York Direct Action Network and Another World Is Possible, an umbrella organization for many groups.
"A lot of people have said they think that would be terribly inappropriate because it would be insensitive and disrespectful to people in the city and to protesters who come from the city," Dr. Graeber said. 
He said past experience showed that any window-breakers in the crowd would not attack independent owner-operators. "Never a cafe of a small businessman," he said, adding that he has never damaged any property. He added that the past also showed that violence was more likely to be directed at large coporations: "Citibank? Sure. Starbucks? Sure. But never anyone who is actually going to be hurt by that."
People in law enforcement who have seen globalization protests said the demonstrators were organized and in some cases used diversions to enable them to cause disruptions or mar property elsewhere. The protesters, though, blame law enforcement for scuffles. 
In New York, some of the demonstrators will use props to create a sort of street theater "for a festive kind of atmosphere that will get across the kind of world we like to see" instead of the world that the economic forum "and the groups that it is influential with are trying to create," said Eric Laursen, a member of Another World Is Possible.
Dr. Graeber said the protesters would use such props as giant cardboard depictions of corn (as a representation of life to many of New York City's Hispanic immigrants) or top hats and champagne glasses (as a representation of affluent excess). 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers practiced crowd control tactics last week at Shea Stadium in Queens, preparing for a meeting in New York next week of the World Economic Forum. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (93%); RIOTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TERRORISM (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (68%); TRENDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); RELIGION (53%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (93%)

PERSON: BAKER, AL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (91%); ITALY (58%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



748 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 112 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TROUBLES IN ARGENTINA TO REDUCE EARNINGS AT DIAL

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 The Dial Corporation said yesterday that the devaluation of the peso in Argentina, the company's biggest international market, would reduce earnings this quarter. Dial said it might have to write off the value of at least some of its $44.7 million in good will, the premium paid above assets, for acquisitions made in Argentina. The company plans to cut marketing, manufacturing and administrative expenses sharply in Argentina, where it gets about 7 percent of its sales. Dial, the maker of soap, Armour Star canned meat and Renuzit air fresheners, put itself up for sale in August. Shares of Dial, based in Scottsdale, Ariz., fell 74 cents, or 4 percent, to $15.76.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); POLISH & SANITATION GOODS MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); DEVALUATION (88%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); TRENDS (82%) FINANCES; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: DIAL CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: DIAL CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (93%) SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (50%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (50%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



749 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Asia: Japan: Trade Surplus Falls 

BYLINE:  By Ken Belson (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Japan's merchandise trade surplus fell to an 18-year low in 2001 as the recession in the United States hurt exports of electronics and other high-technology equipment. 
Japan's surplus stood at 6.6 trillion yen ($50 billion) last year, 38 percent lower than in 2000. The surplus has declined over the last decade as manufacturers have moved some production overseas, where costs are lower. Total export volume, which removes changes in exchange rates, fell 15 percent, the 12th straight decline. Ken Belson (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); EXCHANGE RATES (84%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



750 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Analyzing the Cultural Collision That Gave Rise to Sept. 11

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN

 BODY:
WHAT WENT WRONG?
Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response
By Bernard Lewis
180 pages. Oxford University Press. $23.
 One of the first and most troubling questions to arise after Sept. 11 was whether Osama bin Laden represented a fanatical aberration of an otherwise humane and tolerant faith or whether he was the cutting edge of a dangerous and swelling sentiment in Islam. The question revealed a considerable ignorance about Islam in America and placed a high premium on those few with genuine expertise in the field. 
 Bernard Lewis, an 85-year-old retired professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton and a wartime British intelligence officer (he describes it as a period when he was "otherwise engaged"), was among those who came to the fore. His books were sought out; his essays in The New Yorker and The Atlantic Monthly were widely cited; he appeared on "Meet the Press" and "Charlie Rose." So it is not surprising that a new book by Mr. Lewis with the enticing title "What Went Wrong?" would raise high expectations.
The title is certainly provocative, suggesting as a starting point a general agreement that something has gone amiss in the Islamic civilization, at least in its reaction to the impact of the Judeo-Christian West. But this has been Mr. Lewis's basic premise for some time. His fundamental argument is that Muslims became accustomed in the early centuries of their history to perceiving themselves as the bearers of the final and true faith, and so never came to understand or accept the Christian civilization of Western Europe that he maintains has surpassed and humbled them.
The shock of Western ascendancy has led, in our time, to two responses: emulating the West and its secular culture or returning to the fundamentals of the faith -- the path whose most extreme manifestation is Mr. bin Laden. This, Mr. Lewis wrote in 1990 in a celebrated essay in The Atlantic Monthly (which introduced the catch phrase the political scientist Samuel P. Huntington then made famous) "is no less than a clash of civilizations -- the perhaps irrational but surely historic reaction of an ancient rival against our Judeo-Christian heritage, our secular present and the worldwide expansion of both."
"What Went Wrong?" explores the various aspects and consequences of this cultural collision -- military, social, cultural, governmental -- usually with the conclusion that even in those rare instances when Islam overcame its fundamental resistance to learning from the infidel, it was for a specific and limited purpose, generally military.
In other words, Westernization, even when it happened, did not lead to modernization. Simply agreeing to send students to Europe, Mr. Lewis writes, was a radical act: "It is difficult for a Westerner to appreciate the magnitude of this change, in a society accustomed to despise the infidel barbarians beyond the frontiers of civilization. Even traveling abroad was suspect; the idea of studying under infidel teachers was inconceivable." 
Not surprisingly, assertions like that have attracted no little controversy. Mr. Lewis has been accused of too Eurocentric an approach, of creating a justification for European imperialism, of taking too narrow a view of Islam. There is no doubt that he eschews relativism, from the title of his book to affirmations like this: "By all the standards that matter in the modern world -- economic development and job creation, literacy and educational and scientific achievement, political freedom and respect for human rights -- what was once a mighty civilization has indeed fallen low."
But such certainty only raises expectations that "What Went Wrong?" will take the case forward. Unfortunately, the volume is in fact a few steps behind. In the preface, Mr. Lewis acknowledges that the book was already in page proof on Sept. 11, so it does not deal with the terrorist attacks. But the more important disclosure is reserved for the Afterword, where Mr. Lewis confirms what the reader already suspects, that the book is really a compilation of lectures and articles dating from 1980 to 1999.
That does not mean that they are uninformative or uninteresting. There are fascinating riffs on the profound and fateful differences between the cultures of Islam and Christendom, from fundamental differences in the understanding of relations between church and state to more subtle contrasts in perception of time, literature, authority and identity.
"For traditional Muslims," Mr. Lewis writes, "the converse of tyranny was not liberty but justice. Justice in this context meant essentially two things, that the ruler was there by right and not by usurpation, and that he governed according to God's law, or at least according to recognizable moral and legal principles." 
In his chapter "Time, Space and Modernity," Mr. Lewis advances the provocative notion that one of the central elements of Western progress is the prevalence of poly phony -- not only as many voices proceeding harmoniously in music, but also as a capacity for complex interaction in sports, literature, science and ultimately politics. In Islamic civilization, he argues, the long absence of a precise measurement of time has precluded this critical synchronization.
These are certainly intriguing concepts to chew on as we seek to comprehend the world from which the suicide pilots came to do us such extraordinary damage. But they do not quite satisfy expectations. For one thing, this slim, 180-page volume never really overcomes the feel of old lectures. There is a lot of repetition, a lot of reference to old texts and a lot of generalization of the sort that may be acceptable in a lecture but is frustrating in a book whose title promises convincing answers to the riddles of Sept. 11. 
It is especially difficult to accept that so vast and complex a portion of the world could be reduced to a fairly homogeneous historic force. Mr. Lewis often seems to treat the Ottoman Empire as a template for the entire Muslim civilization, drawing broad conclusions about all Muslims from Turkish examples even as he writes elsewhere of the ancient differences and great rivalries among Turks, Persians, Arabs and other Islamic nations.
Similarly, some of Mr. Lewis's conclusions simply long for more evidence, like the civilizing role of polyphony. Is its absence really all that great a handicap? And if it is, why did it not afflict Far Eastern nations with different musical or organizational traditions? It's an enticing notion, but not convincing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bernard Lewis (Denise Applewhite/Oxford University Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%); WESTERN EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



751 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Preparing for the Fray, Gloves On; 
As McCall Defines Himself, Some Question Instincts

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

 BODY:
H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, was discussing his campaign for governor at a seminar in Lower Manhattan the other morning when a member of his invited audience of young Democrats offered up a sweeping, if not surprising, question: What were the principles and vision of his candidacy?
 It was the kind of direct query that candidates routinely encounter in the early days of a campaign. Mr. McCall, after a pause, responded with something short of a direct answer. 
 "I'll talk about it but, again, one of the reasons you're all here is to help me formulate it," he said. "Because unfortunately for a lot of people, their message ends up reflecting what the polls say. My positions reflect my own personal values, and I want to make sure that they make sense and they resonate -- and particularly, I want to make sure that they are in synch with, and have been tested, and have the influence of people like you." 
That response captured the way many Democrats have come to view Mr. McCall as he seeks to cap a long career in public and private life by becoming governor of New York.
The state comptroller is seen as thoughtful and contemplative, a public official who has a command of the issues and is unfailingly considerate in a profession where courtesy is something less than common. But he is also seen as overly cautious, often unfocused in discussing his vision of his candidacy, and something of an uninspiring public campaigner. His supporters variously describe him as "a little laid back" and "a nice guy" -- phrases that are not necessarily compliments when it comes to politics -- and as the rare politician who seems to have an aversion to, rather than a taste for, the jugular.
That second set of characteristics worries Mr. McCall's supporters as he faces two candidates who have reputations as relentless and ferocious politicians: Andrew M. Cuomo, who is also seeking the Democratic nomination, and Gov. George E. Pataki, the Republican who is seeking a third term.
By most measures, Mr. McCall should be in a strong position. He is one of the highest-ranking elected Democrats in New York. He won re-election to a second term as comptroller in 1998 by a margin of about 1.4 million votes. He has enjoyed abundant good will in Democratic circles, as well as the support of many Democratic elected officials and party leaders.
Many of his supporters argue that Mr. McCall, 66, has earned the nomination through his service to his state and his party. Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York, has declared that Mr. Cuomo, who is 44 and has never run for office before, should step aside, and he warned that he would probably vote for Mr. Pataki if Mr. Cuomo defeats Mr. McCall in the primary.
Should he win, Mr. McCall, who is black, would become the first nonwhite governor of New York. Some Democrats believe that his candidacy might benefit from a high turnout of black and Latino voters, one potential consequence of last year's racially tense New York City mayoral contest. "Last year's problems, whatever they were, enhanced my candidacy because people know that I'm always going to be there to put things together and overcome division," said Mr. McCall.
But a number of Democratic leaders say that Mr. McCall's candidacy has not quite left the ground, at least so far. His fund-raising -- an early measure of political strength -- has lagged Mr. Cuomo's and Mr. Pataki's over the past six months. And while it will be a long time before the public begins paying attention, Mr. McCall has found himself fighting the notion, advanced by Mr. Cuomo's campaign, that his is the face of a fading generation, and that he does not have the endurance to run either a campaign or New York.
"They try to push that, but I leave it to you: Do I look unvigorous?" Mr. McCall said the other morning at breakfast, blowing steam off a mug of tea. "You just look at my schedule, the things that I do, the schedule I keep, the places I've been. I think people are trying to play that, but I would like somebody to give some evidence of that in terms of what I haven't done. I've been doing this pretty intently for over a year now."
"And the thing I want to remind people is, unlike my opponent, I have a job," Mr. McCall said. He added: "I'm hungry for this job. I'm doing what is necessary to get the job."
Mr. McCall and his advisers argue that since Mr. Cuomo's tenure as housing secretary ended in January 2001, he has been able to devote all his time to running for office. Mr. McCall is "still being the comptroller," said Eric T. Schneiderman, a Democratic state senator from Manhattan who is supporting Mr. McCall.
One New York Democrat said Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo were now engaged in "an inside battle for the elite of the political class": political leaders, elected officials, fund-raisers and newspaper columnists. Some of Mr. McCall's advisers argued that New Yorkers would come to know and admire him over time.
"He is by nature a very distinguished and refined and gentlemanly person," said Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, a Nassau County Democrat. "I think some people mistake that style for somehow not being aggressive."
But other Democrats suggested that the jury was still out on that. "Either he's being passive or he's being patient," said one state Democrat who had not endorsed either candidate. "And in that distinction is the whole thing."
For many Democrats, the perception that Mr. McCall was lagging was reinforced when finance reports filed with the State Board of Elections showed Mr. McCall trailing Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Pataki in raising money. Between July 11 and Jan. 11, Mr. Cuomo raised $4 million, compared with Mr. McCall's $2 million; Mr. Pataki raised $4.9 million.
Fund-raising is an imprecise measure of political strength, but it is widely used by politicians trying to judge a candidacy before polls have much value. The problem for Mr. McCall is that any perception that he is having difficulty raising money will only make it more difficult for him to raise more money.
Mr. McCall's advisers argue that the disparity in fund-raising goes to the heart of the difference between the two candidates' styles: Mr. McCall said he suspended all fund-raising activities after Sept. 11. "It was just unseemly to be doing fund-raising," Mr. McCall said. "The fact is that he did it, and I didn't." 
Some of Mr. McCall's advisers believe that the contrast in character between Mr. McCall and Mr. Cuomo will be to Mr. McCall's advantage because voters will come to find Mr. Cuomo a bit too keen to defeat his opponent. "Few people compare to being as hungry as Andrew Cuomo," said the Rev. Al Sharpton, who is supporting Mr. McCall. 
Still, the problem for Mr. McCall is that an affable approach that might be effective in another election year might not work in this particular contest.
For example, after the Legislature approved Mr. Pataki's multibillion-dollar health care plan, which included money for raises for members of a politically powerful union whose support Mr. Pataki wants, Mr. McCall judiciously described the plan as "fiscal gimmickry." By contrast, Mr. Cuomo arranged a telephone conference call with a dozen reporters in which he compared Mr. Pataki's plan to the Enron scandal.
The rationale for Mr. McCall's campaign still seems to be evolving, although he has been running full out for governor for 12 months. Most of all, he is stressing the broad nature of his career, during which he has been a state senator, an executive at Citicorp and head of the New York City Board of Education.
Asked at breakfast to discuss the themes of his candidacy -- the question he deferred in that seminar at Pace University -- Mr. McCall sipped his tea. "That has to do with a commitment to education," he then said. "We have to make clear to everybody that education is in fact critical -- not only in terms of what we have to do for our kids, but also in terms of the relationship between education and the economy.
"If we don't improve the economy, if we don't show that we are really interested in developing a favorable business climate here, then we won't have the resources to do the other social things that we want to do -- including supporting our educational system, support our health care system, protect our environment. All that has to flow from a vibrant economic base. And the Democratic Party hasn't always understood that."
Although Mr. McCall was sitting at a cafe just four blocks from where the World Trade Center had been, with construction workers in yellow hard hats passing by on their way to the site, he made no mention of the disaster of Sept. 11. While Democrats and Republicans believe that Mr. Pataki's political position was significantly enhanced because of his response to the crisis, Mr. McCall argued that the difficult times ahead would increase the likelihood that voters would turn to him.
"They want to see the most experienced, qualified people in government," he said. "I fit the profile of what people are looking for in terms of leadership at the present time."
But Mr. McCall explicitly rejected the assertion by Mr. Rangel that he had earned his right to the party's nomination. "I can't control all of my supporters," Mr. McCall said. "My message is, I'm running on the basis of my qualifications and experience. And I want people to look at that."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 8, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 25 about H. Carl McCall's candidacy for governor of New York referred imprecisely to remarks made in early December by Representative Charles B. Rangel, a McCall supporter, about the other Democratic candidate, Andrew M. Cuomo. Mr. Rangel said that if a vote were held right then, he would favor Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican, over Mr. Cuomo; he did not say he would probably vote for Mr. Pataki if Mr. Cuomo won the primary in September.

GRAPHIC: Photos: H. Carl McCall, above, and talking at left with Lee Saunders of District Council 37 and Borough President C. Virginia Fields of Manhattan. The state comptroller, who has been running for governor for about a year, says, "I'm hungry for this job." (James Estrin/The New York Times); (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); RANKINGS (69%) ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); PRIMARIES; FINANCES; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (89%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER); CUOMO, ANDREW M; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



752 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1691 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE: THE OVERVIEW; 
Enron Hearings Open, Focusing on Destroyed Papers

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Lawmakers investigating the Enron Corporation said today that new evidence showed that the company's auditors, Arthur Andersen, destroyed documents knowing that they might be relevant to criminal and civil investigations.
 At a hearing this morning before a House subcommittee examining the collapse of Enron, lawmakers heard evidence that two weeks before Andersen executives in Houston began destroying documents the accounting firm retained a law firm to prepare to defend itself in cases that could arise from Enron's problems. 
 A document released by lawmakers also shows that on the same day the law firm was hired, Oct. 9, some Andersen officials were worried that there was a "heightened risk of financial statement fraud" with Enron's books.
In addition, the subcommittee released copies of an e-mail message received by Andersen employees a day after government regulators announced their investigation of Enron. Lawmakers said employees construed the message as a directive to begin destroying records. 
David B. Duncan, an Andersen partner until he was fired after acknowledging that he took part in destruction of records, declined to respond to questions from House lawmakers, invoking his Fifth Amendment right against forced self-incrimination. Excerpts from Congressional hearings, Pages C8-9. 
The hearings brought together many elements of American political and economic life: the partisan battle over the proper role of government regulation, the bursting of the financial bubble of the 1990's and the quarrel over the influence of money in politics.
And the sessions were yet another indication of the mounting impact on Washington of Enron's collapse, the largest corporate bankruptcy in history. Even as the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, argued that the company's collapse was a corporate scandal, not a political one, its political effects were visible in Congress and at the White House. 
Controversy over large political contributions from Enron helped House members fighting to overhaul the nation's campaign finance laws to move their legislation closer to a floor vote, with Mr. Fleischer saying a Bush veto was unlikely. All the attention focused on the millions donated by Enron to members of the two parties has intensified the pressure on Mr. Bush and other political leaders to back change.
There were other signs of how Enron's fortunes had intersected with politics. Associates of Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's top political adviser, said he had recommended a lucrative consulting contract with Enron for Ralph Reed, the Republican strategist, as Mr. Bush was weighing whether to run for president. The associates said the arrangement helped keep Mr. Reed's allegiance to the Bush campaign without putting him on any payroll.
A new computer analysis of campaign finance records showed that of the 248 senators and House members on the 11 Congressional committees that are investigating the Enron affair, 212 had received contributions from Enron or Arthur Andersen. The donations from the two companies have been so pervasive that all the Senate's top 20 recipients of Enron donations are serving on at least one panel investigating Enron. Because many lawmakers who accepted Enron donations were Democrats, the burgeoning scandal has created bipartisan discomfort.
Among those testifying today was Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, who had tried with limited success to impose tough conflict-of-interest restraints on the accounting industry. 
"Too many elements of the system are not trustworthy today," Mr. Levitt told the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. "They have failed us because of self-dealing and self-interest."
The House and Senate committees conducting today's hearings include members who had beaten back earlier proposals for tougher conflict-of-interest rules for auditors and who had supported legislation in the 1990's that made it harder for investors to sue unethical accountants and easier for corporations to put out misleading financial projections.
Mr. Levitt proposed a number of changes to eliminate the possible conflicts of interests of Wall Street analysts and accountants and make corporate boards more independent-minded. He also suggested the adoption of a new rule that required companies to change auditors every five to seven years "to ensure that fresh and skeptical eyes are always looking at the numbers."
He also suggested that the recent proposals by his successor at the agency, Harvey L. Pitt, were weak. Mr. Pitt, whose proposals have come under heavy criticism since they were announced last week, has proposed that a group dominated by outside experts should discipline the accounting industry.
Some lawmakers, including members who had received donations from Enron and the accounting industry, said the collapse demonstrated the need for changing campaign finance laws.
"Because Enron has made substantial political contributions to members of Congress and the executive branch, some will question the independence in launching such an investigation," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat who heads the Governmental Affairs Committee. "There are two things we in Congress can do to overcome that skepticism and rebuild public trust: conduct completely independent investigations of Enron and pass campaign finance reform."
The committee's ranking Republican, Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee, agreed.
"We have an opportunity to do some good here on a bipartisan basis," Mr. Thompson said as he outlined issues raised by the scandal. "In the process, we may even finally decide that allowing huge amounts of soft money contributions to public officials is not such a good idea.""
In the House hearing, Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who heads the the Energy and Commerce Committee, which will hold a hearing on Feb. 6 focusing on Enron, said "scores and scores" of Andersen employees were engaged in document destruction. 
"It's clear to us that our investigation, and other investigations, have been impeded by this policy," he said.
The ranking Democrat on the committee, Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, said Andersen's actions were "either criminally stupid, or stupidly criminal or both." 
Lawmakers said it appeared plain that senior Andersen officials were aware by early October, when the firm hired the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell, that lawsuits were possible, yet they did nothing to ensure that crucial documents were preserved, waiting until receiving a subpoena on Nov. 8 to instruct employees to "stop the shredding."
This was a major mistake, lawmakers said, and it contradicted recent comments by Andersen's chief executive, Joseph F. Berardino, who said Sunday on "Meet the Press" on NBC that Andersen's policy was "not to shred documents, not to eliminate documents if you have a reasonable basis to anticipate an investigation."
This morning, the first witness, Mr. Duncan, strode to the hearing table flanked by his two lawyers, Robert Giuffra and Vince DiBlasi. Wearing a dark blue suit, Mr. Duncan, 42, rose and was sworn under oath, but he invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination, and he was dismissed by the subcommittee chairman, Representative James C. Greenwood, Republican of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Greenwood said he was frustrated by Mr. Duncan's refusal to testify and told him: "Enron robbed the bank. Arthur Andersen provided the getaway car, and they say you were at the wheel." But speaking with reporters later, Mr. Greenwood said he remained concerned that "Mr. Duncan and others were the fall guys" for a firm that sanctioned document destruction when they knew litigation was likely.
Andersen officials at the hearing said Mr. Duncan orchestrated the shredding without direction from superiors, and a firm spokesman, Patrick Dorton, played down the timing of the hiring of the outside law firm. "It would not be unusual for this firm or any company to seek the advice of outside counsel in a situation like this," Mr. Dorton said.
An Andersen spokesman dismissed the document that discussed the risk of "financial statement fraud," saying it stemmed from an experimental computer model Andersen was using that often registered false results.
In a statement after the hearing, Andersen said that it had "deep regret for the disturbing actions of several of its employees on the Enron engagement" but that the testimony "further demonstrates the firm's complete resolve to learn the facts, make them known to the government and the public, and take every appropriate action against the individuals involved."
Four Andersen officials testified today, but the committee saved its sharpest questioning for Nancy Temple, a lawyer in the firm's Chicago office who by early October was working closely with Andersen partners in Houston who were reviewing what they viewed as Enron's increasingly troubled accounting.
On Oct. 12, Ms. Temple had sent to auditors in Houston a copy of e-mail showing the firm's document-retention policy, which some lawmakers said amounted to a green light to destroy documents. Mr. Duncan and other Andersen officials interviewed by the committee's investigators have called her e-mail unusual.
Lawmakers also were critical that notes she took during an Oct. 23 conference call with Mr. Duncan and other partners involved with the Enron account did not indicate that preserving documents was mentioned. Her notes read, in part: "AA trying to gather all docs re transaction from around the world."
"And those notes don't say anything about preservation, do they?" Representative Diana DeGette, Democrat of Colorado, asked. 
Ms. Temple also drew the ire of the subcommittee when she characterized as "positive" an October report by Enron's outside law firm, Vinson & Elkins, on Enron's accounting.
Mr. Tauzin told her: "We're trying to get the facts here. But if you will characterize a report that indicates a decline in the value of Enron's stock and a serious risk of adverse publicity and litigation as a positive report from the attorneys, we are going to have trouble with your testimony today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David B. Duncan, center, declined to testify at a hearing on Enron. His lawyer, Robert Giuffra, was at left. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EVIDENCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (87%); VETO (79%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); CONSULTING SERVICES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); LAWYERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ETHICS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); SCANDALS (72%); DISMISSALS (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%) CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; SELF-INCRIMINATION; BANKRUPTCIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ELECTRONIC MAIL 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: KARL ROVE (50%) OPPEL, RICHARD A JR; LABATON, STEPHEN; DUNCAN, DAVID B 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



753 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Official Says Bush Renewed Pledge of $20 Billion in Aid 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
John C. Whitehead, the chairman of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, said yesterday that President Bush had renewed his pledge to send the city $20 billion in federal aid to help it rebuild after the attack on the World Trade Center.
 Mr. Whitehead said that he met with the president for 20 minutes in the Oval Office earlier this month, and reported that President Bush had reconfirmed the pledge he made after the Sept. 11 attack "that we will receive $20 billion of funds from the federal government in due course." 
 "We didn't get into the timing," Mr. Whitehead said, "but he said, 'As you need it, we will provide it.' " 
He said that he had been in Washington to meet with Treasury and budget officials to learn about how federal aid was given when President Bush invited him to visit the White House.
The fate of the president's $20 billion pledge, which he made to New York officials in the days after the attack, has been somewhat uncertain. By the end of last year, agreements had been reached to provide $11.1 billion to the city. Some Washington officials criticized New York's elected officials for failing to present a unified front in requesting the aid. New York's new mayor, Michael R. Bloomberg, traveled to Washington shortly after the election to make his own pitch for aid to the city.
Mr. Whitehead spoke about the president's renewed pledge yesterday at a news conference to announce the opening of two business recovery centers in Lower Manhattan that began distributing $700 million in federal grants to downtown businesses that have suffered in the wake of the attack. The program is unusual in that it offers businesses up to $300,000 in grants, not loans, to make up for lost business.
Gov. George E. Pataki, who came to the opening of the new office at 2 Rector Street, said the grants would be available to four categories of businesses: those south of 14th Street that have stayed put; those south of 14th Street that have temporarily relocated but plan to return; those elsewhere in the city that serve customers downtown; and those that will create new jobs downtown. 
"We're going to continue to make sure that we do not rest until Lower Manhattan has been redeveloped in a way that puts us beyond where we were Sept. 11," Mr. Pataki said.
The size of the grant will depend on the location of the business and the amount it earns on an average day. 
Businesses from 14th Street to Houston Street will be eligible to get grants in the amount of money they would normally take in in two average business days, up to $50,000. The grant amounts increase for businesses further south. Businesses in the zone around the World Trade Center that was frozen after the attack will be eligible for grants covering 10 days of economic loss, up to $300,000.
Some businesses, of course, lost much more than 10 days of business. Some are still closed.
The grants, which come from the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, will be administered by the Empire State Development Corporation and the New York City Economic Development Corporation.
Besides the new office at 2 Rector Street, the state has opened a World Trade Center Business Recovery Centers at 110 Maiden Lane. People can apply for the grants at the offices weekdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., except for Wednesday, when they will be open from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. Applicants are required to bring tax returns, leases, canceled rent checks and old utility bills, among other things.
Information about the process can be found on the Internet at www.nylovessmallbiz.com.
Mr. Whitehead, the head of the redevelopment corporation, said that the grants program "represents, I believe, the turning point in Lower Manhattan, the beginning of the comeback." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); BUDGETS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS CONTINUITY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (72%); RELOCATIONS (71%); MAYORS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); JOB CREATION (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: LOWER MANHATTAN DEVELOPMENT CORP 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%) COOPER, MICHAEL; WHITEHEAD, JOHN C; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



754 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Hints at End Of Rate Cuts 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, signaled today that the Fed was ready to declare its campaign of interest rate cuts over, telling a Congressional committee that the economy appears to be on the brink of recovery.
 Less than two weeks after giving a speech that investors took to mean that the Fed would cut rates once more when it meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, Mr. Greenspan delivered a more optimistic analysis on the economy to the Senate Budget Committee that Wall Street interpreted as a signal the Fed was finished reducing rates for now. 
 Propelled in part by Mr. Greenspan's comments, stock prices rose today. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 9,796.07, up 65.11 points, or 0.7 percent. Treasury prices were mostly lower. Page C10. 
In his assessment today, Mr. Greenspan cited "signs recently that some of the forces that have been restraining the economy over the past year are starting to diminish and that activity is beginning to firm."
Saying that the economy appeared to be poised between a contraction and a resumption of economic growth, the Fed chairman said the economy was "just at this particular point turning, as best as I can judge."
He said there were still uncertainties about the strength of consumer spending and business investment, and he indicated he was concerned that the recovery might be tepid. 
But he did not repeat a statement made in his previous speech, on Jan. 11 in San Francisco, that "we continue to face significant risks in the near term." And he made no attempt to conceal that he was trying to alter the market's perceptions about the chances of a rate cut next week.
His attempt to draw a distinction in the Jan. 11 speech between the strength of the recovery and the likelihood that the worst of the current downturn is over led him to use "phraseology which, in retrospect, I should have done differently," Mr. Greenspan said. He said his wording then "implied that I didn't think that the economy was in the process of turning, and I tried to rectify that in today's remarks."
Fed officials had previously signaled that Mr. Greenspan would use today's appearance on Capitol Hill to clarify his stance, notably in an article last Saturday in The Washington Post.
But it is unclear whether Mr. Greenspan's turnabout is inspired just by a communications problem or whether he and his colleagues on the central bank's interest rate policy committee have determined that recent positive data on new claims for unemployment benefits, consumer confidence and other indicators require him to pull back from his hint of another rate cut.
The Fed has reduced rates 11 times in a little more than a year in an effort to bolster the weakened economy, bringing its federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks to 1.75 percent, the lowest level in four decades. It now seems likely to keep interest rate policy on hold for months, if not throughout the year, analysts said, as it gauges how strong the recovery will be.
Mr. Greenspan "offered a less-negative assessment of U.S. growth prospects" in his testimony today, said Maury Harris, chief United States economist for the investment firm UBS Warburg. "Coupled with sharply lower jobless claims and widening signs of economic improvement," Mr. Harris said, "we now believe that the Fed will hold the Fed funds rate steady next week at 1.75 percent rather than ease another notch."
Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch, said Merrill was setting aside its forecast for a rate cut next week. The Fed will probably retain language in its policy statement signaling a willingness to consider further rate reductions, he said, but "the easing cycle that began in January 2001 is now probably over."
Mr. Steinberg said he did not expect the Fed to begin raising rates until late summer at the earliest.
Mr. Greenspan suggested that the Fed did not see any inflation in the pipeline, noting that "a striking feature of the current cyclical episode relative to many earlier ones has been the virtual absence of pricing power across much of American business."
He also said that this recovery could be much weaker than many Wall Street economists expect, and weaker than those that followed previous recessions. After a bounce from the efforts by businesses to whittle down excess inventories, the economy, he suggested, might not get much help from either of the two sources that typically propel a recovery: consumer spending and capital spending by companies.
Consumers, he said, never scaled back much in this recession, and might be inhibited from spending freely now by the rise in unemployment. And the recovery from a boom-and-bust cycle in capital spending could take some time, he said.
The financial markets, Mr. Greenspan said, "have been assuming a far more rapid snap back than I frankly think is likely to happen."
He said investors should "not assume that everything going forward is going to become a type of economic expansion which has occurred out of previous recessionary periods." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (76%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CAPITAL INVESTMENT 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



755 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 724 words

HEADLINE: Spreading It Around 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A bizarre thing happened to me over the past week: Conservative newspapers and columnists made a concerted effort to portray me as a guilty party in the Enron scandal. Why? Because in 1999, before coming to The New York Times, I was briefly paid to serve on an Enron advisory board.
 Never mind that, scrupulously following the Times conflict of interest rules, I resigned from that board as soon as I agreed to write for this newspaper -- making me much more fastidious than, say, William Kristol, who served on that same board while editing The Weekly Standard. Never mind that I disclosed that past connection a year ago, the first time I wrote about Enron in this column -- and also disclosed it the one time I mentioned Enron before, in a Fortune column. Never mind that the compensation I received per day was actually somewhat less than other companies were paying me at the time for speeches on world economic issues. 
 And never mind that when I started writing in this column about issues of concern to Enron -- in particular, criticizing the role that market manipulation by energy companies played in the California power crisis -- my position was not at all what the company wanted to hear. (Compare this with the board member Lawrence Kudlow, a commentator for National Review and CNBC. He wrote vehemently in favor of the Cheney energy plan -- and has called this the "Clinton-Levitt recession," blaming Arthur Levitt, the former Securities and Exchange Commission chairman, who tried to fight the accounting laxity that made Enron possible.) 
 Yet reading those attacks, you would think that I was a major-league white-collar criminal.
 It's tempting to take this vendetta as a personal compliment: Some people are so worried about the effect of my writing that they will try anything to get me off this page. But actually it was part of a broader effort by conservatives to sling Enron muck toward their left, hoping that some of it would stick. 
 A few days ago Tim Noah published a very funny piece in Slate about this effort, titled "Blaming liberalism for Enron." (Full disclosure: I used to write a column for Slate -- and Slate is owned by Microsoft. So I guess that makes me a Bill Gates crony. I even shook his hand once.) It describes the strategies conservative pundits have used to shift the blame for the Enron scandal onto the other side of the political spectrum. 
Among the ploys: Enron was in favor of the Kyoto treaty, because it thought it could make money trading emission permits; see, environmentalism is the villain. Or how about this: Enron made money by exploiting the quirks of electricity markets that had been only partly deregulated; see, regulation is the villain. 
 And, of course -- you knew this was coming -- it's all a reflection of Clinton-era moral decline. Traditionally, as we all know, Texas businessmen and politicians were models of probity; they never cooked their books or engaged in mutual back-scratching.
 One doubts that the people putting out this stuff really expect to convince anyone. But they do hope to muddy the waters. If they can get a little bit of Enron dirt on everyone -- the Clinton administration, environmentalists, liberal columnists -- the stain on people and ideas they support will be less noticeable.
 Why is Enron a problem for conservatives? Even if the Bush administration turns out to be squeaky clean, which we'll never know unless it starts to be more forthcoming, the scandal threatens perceptions that the right has spent decades creating. After all that effort to discredit concerns about the gap between haves and have-nots as obsolete "class warfare," along comes a real-life story that reads like a leftist morality play: wealthy executives make off with millions while ordinary workers lose their jobs and their life savings. After all that effort to convince people that the private sector can police itself, the most admired company in America turns out to have been a giant Ponzi scheme -- and the most respected accounting firm turns out to have been an accomplice. 
 You might think that the shock of the Enron scandal -- and it is shocking, even to us hardened cynics -- would make some conservatives reconsider their beliefs. But the die-hards prefer to sling muck at liberals, hoping it will stick.
 Sorry, guys; I'm clean. The muck stops here. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 26, 2002

 CORRECTION:
In his column yesterday, Paul Krugman misattributed the source of the phrase "Clinton-Levitt recession," describing the current economic situation. Its author was Don Devine of the American Conservative Union, not Lawrence Kudlow. Mr. Krugman apologizes.
Transcription excerpts yesterday from remarks at a House committee hearing about the Enron Corporation's collapse used a mispelled given name in some copies for an executive who had questioned the company's accounting practices. She is Sherron Watkins, not Sharon.

GRAPHIC: Photos: JAMES C. GREENWOOD -- Republican of Pennsylvania (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); NANCY TEMPLE -- Arthur Andersen (Bloomberg News)(pg. C8); BILLY TAUZIN -- Republican of Louisiana (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-EdText 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); ACCOUNTING (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (89%); WRITERS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ETHICS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); EMISSIONS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (71%); DEREGULATION (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (66%) ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (75%); PAUL KRUGMAN (57%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; CLINTON, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 %MS. TEMPLE -- Before Oct. 12 I was aware that Vinson & Elkins had been engaged and completed and reported orally to the board that the results of their investigation were positive.And the engagement team also assured the practice directors who were being consulted at that time and myself that they had reviewed the information about the allegations, and that the allegations were, to the extent that they had any information in them in reference to transactions, involved transactions that the audit team had carefully reviewed in its prior work. MS. DEGETTE -- O.K. So you thought that, because Vinson & Elkins had said there's no problem, that that did not trigger any kind of requirement. Is that correct? Yes or no, please. MS. TEMPLE -- No, that's not ---- MS. DEGETTE -- O.K, thank you. MS. TEMPLE -- ---- what I was thinking at the time. MS. DEGETTE -- Now, what caused you to send that memo on Oct. 12? Did you do that on a regular basis? MS. TEMPLE -- There were several factors that caused me to send the memo on Oct. 12. MS. DEGETTE -- O.K, let me back up for a minute. How many times in your two years, roughly, at Andersen did you send memos like this, reminding people of the document retention and destruction policy? MS. TEMPLE -- I don't recall the number of times. I have referred ---- MS. DEGETTE -- Had you done it before? MS. TEMPLE -- I believe I had referred people to the firm's policies on document retention and destruction, as well as ---- MS. DEGETTE -- How many times before? MS. TEMPLE -- I don't recall the number of times. MS. DEGETTE -- One time? Five times? Ten times? MS. TEMPLE -- To the best of my recollection, at least one other occasion, and I ---- MS. DEGETTE -- And was that in relation to Enron, or was that in relation to another client? MS. TEMPLE -- No, that was not in relation to Enron. . . . MR. TAUZIN -- I just want to clarify your testimony to the gentlelady's questions. You indicated that Vinson & Elkins issued a positive report. I want a quote from that report."There is a serious risk of adverse publicity and litigation. It also appears, because of the inquiries and issues raised by Ms. Watkins, Arthur Andersen will want additional assurances that Enron had no agreement with LJM that LJM would not lose money," et cetera.Is that a positive report? MS. TEMPLE -- As I recall, the outcome of the report, as reported to me, the ---- MR. TAUZIN -- You have a copy of this, I believe we've submitted, you have a copy of this letter, don't you, from Vinson & Elkins? You saw it yourself, didn't you? MS. TEMPLE -- After the week of Oct. 12, I did receive a copy ---- MR. TAUZIN -- But here's the point, Ms. Temple. I mean, we're trying to get the facts here. But if you will characterize a report that indicates a decline in the value of Enron's stock and the serious risk of adverse publicity and litigation as a positive report from the attorneys, we're going to have trouble with your testimony today. MS. TEMPLE -- Later on, when I did receive a copy of the report and sent a copy to outside counsel, I did note the comments that you referenced. But I also noted that the law firm reported that there was nothing further to follow up on at that point in time.And the law firm was representing Enron Corporation, not Arthur Andersen. And I understood and recall at the time thinking that there might be a challenge to the business judgment decisions of Enron to enter into certain transactions. MR. TAUZIN -- Did you know at the time that Vinson & Elkins had signed off on these agreements as a counsel for the firm? There may have been a conflict of interest in them commenting on them now? MS. TEMPLE -- I don't recall the circumstances ---- MR. TAUZIN -- You're not aware of that? MS. TEMPLE -- I don't recall at this time. MR. TAUZIN -- Thank you, gentlelady. MS. DEGETTE -- Do you recall a conversation with Mr. Duncan in which he assured you he was gathering the documents to preserve them? Do you recall specifically having that conversation? MS. TEMPLE -- I don't recall ---- MS. DEGETTE -- According to your notes? MS. TEMPLE -- ---- his specific words, but I do recall that we had a group conference call on Oct. 23. And I have these notes from that call. MS. DEGETTE -- And the notes don't say anything about preservation, do they? MS. TEMPLE -- The notes. . . . MS. DEGETTE -- Yes or no? MS. TEMPLE -- The notes do not have the word "preservation" in them. MS. DEGETTE -- And on Oct. 12, you had just sent a memo to Mr. Duncan and his group, advising them of the Arthur Andersen document retention and destruction policy, which involved destroying of all of the notes and backup documents and so on. Correct? MS. TEMPLE -- No. Actually, I sent a reference to the policy to the practice director in Houston. MS. DEGETTE -- So you never sent that to Mr. Duncan? MS. TEMPLE -- I did not send it personally to Mr. Duncan. MS. DEGETTE -- Mr. Odom had that, correct? Mr. Odom, did you have that? MS. TEMPLE -- Yes, I sent it to the Houston practice director, based on several factors ---- MS. DEGETTE -- Just cutting through, in this Oct. 23 phone call, you don't recall specifically -- and your notes do not reflect -- you telling Mr. Duncan to retain records, do they? Yes or no. MS. TEMPLE -- I don't see that in my ---- MS. DEGETTE -- Yes or no, ma'am? MS. TEMPLE -- No, it's not. . . . MS. DEGETTE -- Thank you. I yield back. MR. TAUZIN -- Ms. Temple, if you received this e-mail from Mr. Duncan indicating he wascollecting all these documents, and assumed that he was preserving them, why did you feel it necessary on November the 9th to leave a voice mail with Mr. Duncan, directing him to preserve those documents because of the receipt of the S.E.C. subpoena? If he was preserving them already, why on earth did you feel it necessary to advise him to preserve them on Nov. 9? MS. TEMPLE -- It is our firm's practice to notify the engagement team when the legal group receives a subpoena. I believe it had been received in the general counsel's office, and I promptly notified the engagement partner and reminded about the need to, at this point in time, we'll have to collect the documents for production. MR. TAUZIN -- Well -- but you understand why common sense gets a little lost here. If you're in a position where you know that the retention policy also means destruction -- you know that, didn't you? MS. TEMPLE -- There are aspects of instruction guidelines ---- MR. TAUZIN: -- Yes. MS. TEMPLE -- ---- in that policy. Yes. MR. TAUZIN -- So you know that the retention policy, as long as it's operating, permits Mr. Duncan and however many people he has working for him to destroy documents.You hear, you get a memo from him saying, "I'm gathering them all up." And you tell us today that you assumed that meant he was gathering up to preserve them for litigation, not to destroy them.Why would you even bother to say, "By the way," on Nov. 9, "quit destroying documents. We've just got an S.E.C. subpoena?" Why would you do that? MS. TEMPLE -- The legal group notifies the engagement partner and engagement team when subpoenas are served. It was received by the legal group, and I felt it was appropriate to follow the firm protocol to notify the engagement partner. MR. TAUZIN -- Yes. But, you see, we also have your memo on November the 10th, and I'm going to read you from it. It says, "One of the first things we must do in preparing to respond to these subpoenas and lawsuits is to take all necessary steps to preserve all of the documents and other materials that we may have relating to claims that are being filed."Now, if that was already being done, if you had received a notice from Mr. Duncan that he's gathering them all up to preserve them, if that was your conclusion, why would you say, "the first thing we have to do now, now that the subpoena has arrived is start preserving these things?"You see, common sense, Ms. Temple, common sense tells me that destruction was going on up until this time when the subpoena arrived and that until you said, "preserve them" they may well have been gathered up for destruction, and that somebody should have known that. And was that somebody you? MS. TEMPLE -- I never counseled any destruction or shredding of documents. And I only wish that someone had raised the question so that we could have consulted and addressed the situation.January 25, 2002



756 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Our Man in Beijing 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
One of the silver linings to 9/11 is the historic opportunity it has created to make the world safe for the world's most critical rivalry: that between the 21st century's two most important countries, China and the United States.
 So far this opportunity has been largely squandered. President Bush's visit to China next month creates another chance. The stars are aligned to permit a major drive to put Chinese-American relations on a better footing, and Mr. Bush should show the same enthusiasm to build relations that he did on his last visit to Beijing. 
 That was in 1975, when he had just graduated from business school. His fellow graduates were going off to begin sparkling careers, but Mr. Bush spent the whole summer loafing around Beijing, where his father was then the American envoy. 
What was he up to? Did he have some secret intelligence mission? Was he trying to use his connections to launch a business? 
Nope. Mr. Bush, it turns out, took the summer off because he wanted to date Chinese women. 
Seriously.
China was in the last fanatical throes of its Cultural Revolution and Mr. Bush was a stinking imperialist capitalist running dog, but even then (as a single man) he was trying hard to build bridges. Predictably, he spent the summer striking out.
(Actually, he was lucky he did, for State Security agents sometimes use gorgeous young women as "honey traps" for well-connected American men and then burst in with cameras. If that had happened, President Jiang Zemin would be able to show Mr. Bush some amazing photos in the course of a most interesting negotiation).
Anyway, let's hope that Mr. Bush tries as hard this time to warm Chinese hearts. Long after Afghanistan is a faded memory, the world's prosperity and security will depend on the globe's two dominant players getting along (Remember: China will very likely surpass the United States as the world's largest economy by 2020). 
The attacks of 9/11 changed the dynamic of Chinese-American relations. Already China is sharing its intelligence on Al Qaeda and Afghanistan (pretty good stuff, I hear). Beijing was also very helpful in twisting arms in Pakistan to crack down on Islamic fundamentalists.
What few Americans realize is that Mr. Jiang is, in Chinese terms, deeply pro-American. Everybody sees that but the Americans. As one Chinese friend put it: "The general feeling here is that Jiang and the entire leadership are very pro-American. They're willing to do anything to fix up the relationship with the U.S."
I spent a couple of days at Beijing University talking to students, and almost every time Mr. Jiang's name came up he was dismissed as qin mei, an expression that means sweet on America (qin means beloved, dear or kiss, and mei stands for America). 
If Mr. Jiang is mocked as qin mei, that is partly his own fault. He has cultivated nationalism as the new ideological "glue" to hold China together, replacing Communism, in ways that breed anti-Americanism. Mr. Bush needs to object to this, and the bottom line is that Mr. Jiang will be responsive because he wants to be respected by the United States.
One reassuring sign: Mr. Jiang has tried to quell the fallout from the American bugging of his luxurious new Chinese Air Force One. Of course, let's not kid ourselves: The reason he hushed it up is that he is already criticized for self-aggrandizement, and for many Chinese the insult is that Mr. Jiang spent $120 million on a lavish plane with a huge bed to bug. 
I lived in China too many years to have any sweet illusions about this regime. I was on Tiananmen Square when the troops opened fire, I've had friends imprisoned and tortured by the authorities, and I've been denounced by the Communist Party for writing "science fiction" (judging from my e-mail, this may be one point on which people in many countries can agree).
But China is also becoming more open, tolerant and important. The aftermath of the terror attacks underscores precisely the useful role China can play if our two countries cooperate, and it creates an opportunity to put our relationship on a more solid footing.
Mr. Jiang is a lame duck, retiring from his key posts this fall, and for his legacy he wants to cement an improved Chinese-American relationship. It's in our own interest to help him do that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); MEN (73%); POLITICS (71%); FUNDAMENTALISM (66%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); HIJACKING (66%); AL-QAEDA (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); RELIGION (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: ;BEIJING UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; JIANG ZEMIN (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); PAKISTAN (79%) CHINA; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



757 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chairman Says Tax Cuts Should Follow Debt Reduction 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
A year after giving his blessing to President Bush's tax cut, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, urged Congress today to link any further tax reductions or spending increases to progress in paying down the national debt.
 Appearing before the Senate Budget Committee, Mr. Greenspan provided few specifics about how such a plan would work, and he stopped short of saying his idea should be applied to the $1.3 trillion tax cut that Mr. Bush signed into law last June. 
 But the Fed chairman, who has exerted considerable influence on budget and tax policy in recent years, suggested that allowing the government's fiscal condition to continue deteriorating could undermine the economic recovery that appears to be getting under way, and in the long run could leave the nation ill-prepared to pay Social Security and Medicare benefits to an aging population.
Democrats seized on the idea as a possible way to slow the implementation of the tax cut, which takes effect gradually over the next eight years, without subjecting themselves to Republican attacks that they would be raising taxes.
The basic idea as laid out by Mr. Greenspan -- who made a similar proposal that went nowhere last year -- would be to allow tax cuts and spending increases to take place only if the government hit predetermined targets for reducing the national debt held by the public, which stands at $3.3 trillion. The two parties vowed as recently as last year to pay off nearly all the debt within this decade, but the disappearance of the budget surplus in recent months appears to have put that goal out of reach.
"As you craft a budget strategy for coming years, you might again want to consider provisions that, in some way, would limit tax and spending initiatives if specified targets for the budget surplus and federal debt were not satisfied," Mr. Greenspan said.
Some Republicans dismissed the idea. Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said it smacked of "Hooverism" -- raising taxes whenever the economy got weak just to balance the budget, deepening any downturn by taking money out of the economy rather than putting more in.
But a few moderate Republicans, including Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, support the idea. And while some Democrats are wary of any measure that would block spending increases along with tax cuts, the budget committee's Democratic chairman, Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, concluded the hearing by embracing Mr. Greenspan's approach and saying he would "try to find a way to get it enacted into law."
The sparring over the issue suggested that the effects of the tax cut on the budget would continue to be a political issue throughout this year, and perhaps for years to come. Along with the recession and added spending related to the war on terrorism, it has substantially reduced the pot of money available for nearly every other issue, including paying off the national debt, shoring up Social Security and providing more federal aid to schools.
Democrats continue to make the case that the tax cut's benefits will go overwhelmingly to relatively few affluent people, especially through the provision that repeals the estate tax. But although a few liberals, most notably Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, have called for repealing parts of the tax cut, most Democrats say such a goal is unrealistic if not economically unwise and politically suicidal this year.
"Today's political environment does not allow at this time for repeal or delay of the tax cuts we enacted last year," said Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia.
In a speech to the centrist Democratic Leadership Council, the House minority leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, also said repeal of the tax cuts was not politically realistic.
In what he had billed as a major economic policy address, Mr. Gephardt called for a push to develop technology that would allow the nation to supply all its own energy; a tax credit for college tuition and a program to encourage new teachers; a new system to make pensions safer and more easily moved from employer to employer, while allowing people as young as 55 to buy into the Medicare system; and greater government investment in new technologies.
Mr. Greenspan appeared on Capitol Hill as the Senate continued to debate a proposed economic recovery package without making any progress in resolving deep partisan differences over what the package should contain. 
Asked whether the economy still needed a quick jolt from increased spending or tax cuts, Mr. Greenspan said he was conflicted about the pros and cons. He said that the economy would recover without a stimulus bill, but that it might need help later in the year if the recovery proves to be lackluster.
Asked today whether the tax cut had helped the economy last year, Mr. Greenspan said it had. But he also said the deterioration of the budget surplus -- in part because of the tax cut -- had put upward pressure on long-term interest rates, putting a brake on economic growth.
Mr. Greenspan continued to walk a fine line between defending his endorsement of a big tax cut last year and sticking by his long-held position that fiscal responsibility and debt reduction are essential to the nation's long-term economic health.
But he acknowledged that what he thought last year was a major threat -- that the debt would be paid down too rapidly -- had evaporated, and that his focus now had returned to paying off the debt.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Who Benefits From the Tax Cut"With the budget battles heating up in Congress, debate is again focusing on the 10-year, $1.3 trillion tax cut which President Bush signed into law on June 7. Here is how the tax changes are distributed among different income levels. TAX BRACKET: Top 1%INCOME RANGE: More than $373,000AVERAGE INCOME: $1,117,000AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: $53,123PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 37.6% TAX BRACKET: Next 4%INCOME RANGE: $147,000 to $373,000AVERAGE INCOME: 210,000AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: 3,345PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 9.5 TAX BRACKET: Next 15%INCOME RANGE: $72,000 to $147,000AVERAGE INCOME: 97,400AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: 2,234PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 23.7 TAX BRACKET: Next 20%INCOME RANGE: $44,000 to $72,000AVERAGE INCOME: 56,400AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: 1,026PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 14.5 TAX BRACKET: Middle 20%INCOME RANGE: $27,000 to $44,000AVERAGE INCOME: 34,400AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: 600PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 8.5 TAX BRACKET: Fourth 20%INCOME RANGE: $15,000 to $27,000AVERAGE INCOME: 20,600AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: 375PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 5.3 TAX BRACKET: Bottom 20%INCOME RANGE: Less than $15,000AVERAGE INCOME: 9,300AVERAGE TOTAL TAX CUT: 66PERCENT OF TOTAL TAX CUT: 0.9 Note: Figures are given at 2001 income levels, with the tax plan fully in place. Totals include both the income tax reductions and the repeal of the estate tax.(Source: Citizens for Tax Justice) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); MEDICARE (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); AGING (68%); TERRORISM (67%) TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US); SOCIAL SECURITY (US) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); KENT CONRAD (58%); KIT BOND (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



758 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Reprieve for the Pentagon Budget 

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 

 BODY:
As a candidate for president, George W. Bush promised to force the Pentagon to make "hard choices" in its weapons programs, to replace the lumbering ships, tanks and helicopters of today with the lighter, faster, higher-tech equipment of tomorrow.
 But in asking Congress for a $48 billion increase in military spending next year -- the largest since President Ronald Reagan's first term -- the president this week signaled that he was prepared to postpone those tough decisions for years to come. 
 Despite a lingering recession and a looming federal deficit, Mr. Bush's plan would provide enough money for the Pentagon to keep building big-ticket items that once seemed in danger, like the V-22 Osprey of the Marine Corps, the F-22 fighter jet of the Air Force and the Crusader howitzer of the Army. 
At the same time, Mr. Bush wants the Pentagon to continue research and development on the more futuristic systems that he says will "transform" the armed services, including missile defense, precision-guided munitions, unpiloted ships and planes and space surveillance systems.
The result, Congressional and budget analysts say, is that new will not replace old; they will coexist. The Pentagon will need ever larger budgets to pay for it all, since the cost of virtually every major weapons program is projected to grow significantly through the rest of the decade.
But Mr. Bush cannot postpone the day of reckoning indefinitely, Democrats and budget analysts asserted. Growing Pentagon budgets, combined with the president's $1.3 trillion tax cut, could fuel widening budget deficits like those last seen in the 1980's, when the politics of deficit reduction led to painful belt tightening. 
"We've been to this movie before," said Gordon Adams, director of security policy studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University and a budget official in the Clinton administration. "There is a significant risk of a rerun of the Reagan years here."
In a speech before a reserve officers group on Wednesday, Mr. Bush proposed increasing the current $328 billion Pentagon budget by $38 billion for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1, an increase of 11.6 percent, the largest since 1981. The administration also wants Congress to authorize a $10 billion reserve fund for costs relating to the war on terrorism next year. 
On top of all this, the Pentagon is planning to ask Congress within the next two months for an emergency budget supplement to pay for the current costs of the war in Afghanistan. Congress appropriated $17.5 billion for that purpose late last year.
At the Pentagon today, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld argued that a "procurement holiday" in the 1990's had left the armed services with crumbling buildings, underpaid soldiers, malfunctioning equipment and thinning stockpiles of spare parts. 
"You end up trying to take a 1934 Oldsmobile and prop it up for another five, six years, and there's a point beyond which that doesn't make good sense," Mr. Rumsfeld said. "We don't get rewards for having antiques in the military."
But senior Pentagon officials acknowledged that just a few months ago, Mr. Rumsfeld had expected to cut weapons programs, close bases or eliminate divisions to finance Mr. Bush's priorities: higher salaries, missile defense, new housing and more advanced surveillance equipment. The terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 changed all that.
"Had there not been a war, we couldn't have expected to get this," one senior military official said. Now, the official said, Mr. Bush's budget will call for "healthy" increases in military spending over the next six years.
With public support for the war on terrorism still running high, Congressional officials said it would be difficult for Democrats and fiscal conservatives to oppose Mr. Bush's Pentagon spending plan. Still, the size of the request clearly stunned many members of Congress. 
"I'm one of the hawks, who's been around here 50 years this year, when it comes to defense," said Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia. "But I'm becoming a little nervous as I hear that we're going to spend more and more and more on the military. It's going to have to come out of somewhere, out of somebody else's hide."
Congressional Democrats seemed particularly concerned about Mr. Bush's proposal for a contingency fund for future conflicts in the war on terrorism. Some lawmakers say such a fund, which would allow the Pentagon to spend money on military operations without seeking approval from Capitol Hill, would weaken Congress's power over the federal purse. 
"Congress will provide the president with absolutely everything that is needed to prosecute the war," said David Sirota, a spokesman for Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee. "But that does not necessitate that it must abdicate its constitutional responsibilities."
While the Pentagon has released few details about its 2003 budget, senior administration officials said the increase will mainly go into three major accounts: health care and salaries, procurement and research and development. Missile defense spending will be kept level at about $8 billion.
The plan will call for a few, previously announced program cuts, including to the Navy Area Missile Defense program and the DD-21 destroyer. But there will be no cuts in the number of troops, known in military parlance as force structure, and a host of major programs that had once been on the chopping block will continue more or less on schedule.
"The original concept was get rid of force structure, Army divisions and Navy carriers, so we could channel that money into futuristic systems," said Ivan Eland, a military analyst at the Cato Institute, a libertarian group. "This does the opposite. Defense reform is dead." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE SPENDING (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); ARMIES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (72%); HELICOPTERS (72%); TAX LAW (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); TAX RELIEF (64%); TERRORISM (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DAO, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



759 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1814 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S COLLAPSE; 
Statements by Senator and Ex-S.E.C. Head at Senate Hearing on Enron

 BODY:
Following are statements at the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee hearing yesterday in Washington on Enron by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, and Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Durbin's statement was provided by his office. Mr. Levitt's is from the committee's Web site.

Senator Durbin
 With biblical certainty, the United States preaches the gospel of free markets and capitalism to the unconverted around the world. Third-world nations, former command-and-control economies and socialist governments alike are all exhorted to let the laws of supply and demand run their course. 
 As proof of the truth of our message, we can point to our own experience, a frontier nation which joined democratic government to a market economy and created the free-est, most stable and prosperous nation in history.
But the American story also includes a chapter where we came to realize that the rule of law and the guiding hand of government were critical to a just result in the world of business. Theodore Roosevelt was the first president to acknowledge that the genius of capitalism could also be a triumph of greed without rule and regulation to save us from our baser instincts.
Today, this committee joins a chorus of Congressional critics pecking at the carrion of Enron. When the mightiest fall, the politically curious scramble over the ruins.
What we know is this: A flawed and fraudulent business concept failed. But there are other things we also know.
When the corporate insiders at Enron realized the ship was sinking, they grabbed the lifeboats and left the women and children -- their workers and investors -- to drown.
When the accountants and auditors responsible for policing Enron were on the beat, they were also on the take, a badge in one hand and an open palm in the other.
When workers and investors were captivated by too-good-to-be-true profits and fraudulent claims by the corporate bigwigs in Houston, they made decisions they could not escape. 
When high-flying corporate executives became political high rollers, they left a lot of embarrassed people in their wake. 
After all of the sound and fury of these investigations, the bottom-line questions are: Is Congress willing to amend the law to rein in the greed of the next Enron? Are we willing to concede that the genius of capitalism can result in ruthless behavior without our oversight and the protection of law? Can we save pensioners and investors -- who were outsiders believing in the fairness of the market -- from the corporate insiders who walk away from these colossal business train wrecks with their pockets full and without a scratch?
Over 100 million Americans who own stock and 42 million who own 401(k)'s will be watching to see if these hearings and many others on Capitol Hill are about more than face time on the nightly news.
To me, this national debate is about more than a failed corporate giant. It is about the values of our nation. Enron is a big story not just because of its bankruptcy. Sadly, bankruptcies occur everyday. Enron is a big story because it reminds us of our vulnerability. It reminds us that without the enforcement of fair and just laws, the average American doesn't have a fighting chance.

Mr. Levitt
Thank you for the invitation to share my thoughts on the failure of Enron and its implications for our financial markets. Today, there is an emerging crisis of systemic confidence in our markets. What has failed is nothing less than the system for overseeing our capital markets. We have an opportunity to repair trust in those on whom investors depend and, in the process, trust in the numbers that are the backbone of our capital markets. 
But our response must be comprehensive. Healthy and resilient financial markets depend on the accountability of every one of its key actors -- managers, auditors, directors, analysts, lawyers, ratings agencies, standards setters and regulators.
Enron's collapse did not occur in a vacuum. Its backdrop is an obsessive zeal by too many American companies to project greater earnings from year to year. When I was at the S.E.C., I referred to this as a "culture of gamesmanship." A gamesmanship that says it's O.K. to bend the rules, tweak the numbers and let obvious and important discrepancies slide. A gamesmanship where companies bend to the desires and pressures of Wall Street analysts rather than to the reality of numbers. Where analysts more often overlook dubious accounting practices and too often are selling potential investment banking deals. Where auditors are more occupied with selling other services and making clients happy than detecting potential problems, and where directors are more concerned about not offending management than with protecting shareholders. 
Any reforms must recognize the importance of gatekeepers in safeguarding the interests of investors and the fundamental need to preserve and enhance these gatekeepers' independence. These steps are certainly not a panacea, but we must begin to reinvigorate the financial checks and balances.
First, we must better expose Wall Street analysts' conflicts of interest. For years, we've known that analysts' compensation is tied to their ability to bring in or support investment banking deals. In early December, with Enron trading at 75 cents a share, 12 of the 17 analysts who covered Enron rated the stock either a hold or buy. 
Two years ago, I asked the New York Stock Exchange and the National Association of Securities Dealers to require investment banks and their analysts to disclose clearly all financial relationships with the companies they rate. That rule making, still not finalized, should go further and mandate that analysts disclose how their compensation is affected by their firm's investment banking relationships.
And Wall Street's major firms, not its trade group, need to take immediate steps to reform how analysts are compensated. As long as analysts are paid based on banking deals they generate or work on, there will always be a cloud over what they say. Analysts also should not be allowed to trade the stock of any company for which they have issued a recommendation in the last 30 days.
Second, company boards often fail to confront management with tough questions. 
Stock exchanges, as a listing condition, should require at least a majority of the directors on company boards to meet a strict definition of independence. That means no consulting fees, use of corporate aircraft without reimbursement, support of director-connected philanthropies or other seductions. In Enron's case, at least three so-called independent board members would have been disqualified under this test of independence.
Third, many accounting rules need to be updated to better reflect changing business practices to give investors a better understanding of the underlying health of companies. Because the Financial Accounting Standards Board is funded and overseen by accounting firms and their clients, its decisions are agonizingly slow. This well-meaning group must defend itself, as well, from Congressional pressure, which is often applied when powerful constituents hope to undermine a rule that might hurt their earnings. 
F.A.S.B.'s funding should be secured not just through the accounting firms and corporations, but also a number of market participants, from the stock exchanges to banks to mutual funds. And the Financial Accounting Foundation, which chooses F.A.S.B.'s members, should be composed entirely of the best qualified members, not merely those representing constituent interests. The F.A.S.B. should then be able to focus more on getting the standards right and avoiding delays and compromises that ill serve investors. 
Let me turn briefly to probably the most urgent area of reform. Like no other, the accounting profession has been handed an invaluable, but fragile, franchise. From this Federal mandate to certify financial statements, the profession has prospered greatly. But as an edict for the public good, this franchise is only as valuable as the public service it provides and as fragile as the public confidence that gives it life.
It's well past time to recognize that the accounting profession's independence has been compromised. Two years ago, the S.E.C. proposed significant limits on the types of consulting work an accounting firm could perform for an audit client. An extraordinary amount of political pressure was brought to bear on the commission. We ended up with the best possible solution given the realities of the time. 
I would now urge, at a minimum, that we go back and reconsider some of the limits originally proposed, namely a prohibition on the auditor designing or installing information technology systems and performing the internal audit. Auditors should also be barred from consulting on how to structure transactions such as the kinds of special purpose entities that Enron engaged in. This type of work only serves to help management get around the rules.
I also believe that the audit committee, not company management, should pre-approve all other consulting contracts with the audit firm. Such approval should be granted rarely, and only when the audit committee decides that a consulting contract is in the shareholders' best interests. Lastly, I propose that serious consideration be given to requiring companies to change their audit firm -- not just the partners -- every five to seven years to ensure that fresh and skeptical eyes are always looking at the numbers.
More than three decades ago, Leonard Spacek, a visionary accounting-industry leader, stated that the profession couldn't "survive as a group, obtaining the confidence of the public . . . unless as a profession we have a workable plan of self-regulation." Yet all along, the profession has resisted meaningful oversight. We need a truly independent oversight body that has the power not only to set the standards by which audits are performed, but also to conduct timely investigations that cannot be deferred for any reason and to discipline accountants. 
And all of this needs to be done with public accountability -- not behind closed doors. To preserve its integrity, this organization cannot be funded in any way by the accounting profession.
The rise of the baby boom generation, changing retirement patterns and markets that sometimes defied the laws of gravity brought more and more first-time investors into the markets. These are our friends and neighbors, whose hopes and aspirations became inextricably linked to the health and resiliency of our markets. 
We assault those dreams if company executives sell out shareholder faith and if those purporting to be independent are anything but. Enron, like every other financial failure before it, proves that investors bear the ultimate cost. It's time to repair what has been lost.
Thank you very much.

GRAPHIC: Photo: ARTHUR LEVITT -- Former Chairman of the S.E.C. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (79%); ETHICS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RELIGION (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); US 401K PLANS (63%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%) ENRON CORP; SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (91%) DURBIN, RICHARD J (SEN); LEVITT, ARTHUR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



760 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Congressional Hearings Focus on Andersen's Role
Two committees opened Congressional inquiries into the collapse of Enron with new details that lawmakers said showed that the company's auditors, Arthur Andersen, destroyed documents knowing they might be relevant to pending criminal and civil investigations.
 The hearings were another indication of the mounting impact of Enron's collapse, the largest corporate bankruptcy in history, on Washington. Page A1. 

Promises and Profits From Enron
Enron executives enticed wealthy individuals and institutions to invest in a partnership by dangling the prospect that inside knowledge could help them double their money in as little as eight months, according to records and investors. A major Enron division, meanwhile, overstated its profits by hundreds of millions of dollars over the last three years, former employees say. A1.

Datek Settles S.E.C. Charges
Datek Online Holdings agreed to pay $6.3 million to settle Securities and Exchange Commission accusations that its former day trading unit, run by Jeffrey A. Citron, left, and Sheldon Maschler, engaged in securities fraud in the 1990's. The S.E.C. did not take any action against Mr. Citron or Mr. Maschler, officials said, but an inquiry is continuing. C2.

Greenspan Urges Paying Down Debt
A year after giving his blessing to President Bush's tax cut, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, urged Congress to link any further tax reductions or spending increases to progress in paying down national debt. A18.

Little Sympathy for Mariah Carey
"Poor Mariah" is not the sentiment that is sweeping the music industry over the news that EMI Records paid $28 million to buy out its $80 million contract with the pop diva Mariah Carey. News Analysis. C15.

Shares Rise on Strong Earnings
Solid corporate results and upbeat comments from the Federal Reserve chairman lifted stocks. The Nasdaq composite index rose 20.20 points, or 1.05 percent, to 1,942.58. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 65.11 points, or 0.67 percent, to 9,796.07. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 3.97 points, or 0.35 percent, to 1,132.15. C10.

Jobless Claims Fell Last Week
The number of workers filing new claims for state unemployment benefits fell last week to the lowest level in almost six months. C10.

EMC Loss Narrows Unexpectedly
EMC, the data storage company that became a widely held technology bellwether during the 1990's, reported a narrower loss than expected in the last quarter of 2001 and projected a return to profitability as early as this spring. It lost $70.2 million, or 3 cents a share. Analysts had expected EMC to lose 7 cents a share, or $1.31 billion. It shares rose $2.27, or 16 percent, to $16.83. C2.

Sale of Clairol Lifts Bristol-Myers
Bristol-Myers Squibb said its quarterly profit rose as gains from the sale of its Clairol beauty care business helped offset charges taken on deals with ImClone Systems and DuPont. Bristol-Myers reported a profit of $1.46 billion, or 75 cents a share, compared with $1.16 billion, or 59 cents a share, a year earlier. C10.

Mining Giant to Abandon Zambia
Anglo American, the global mining giant, said that it was pulling out of Zambia. The company has been struggling to turn around the crumbling mines it acquired from the state 22 months ago. The news is a staggering blow to Zambia. World Business, Section W.

Two Japanese Insurers to Merge
Meiji Life and Yasuda Mutual Life have agreed to merge, creating Japan's No. 3 life insurance company, in a move to cut costs and bolster returns at a time when the Japanese economy is sour and interest rates are near zero. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,796.07 up 65.11Nasdaq composite -- 1,942.58 up 20.2010-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.01% down 0.01The euro -- $0.8771 down 0.0007The dollar -- 134.79 yen up 0.52 Graph tracks the daily closing price of EMC shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (85%); NATIONAL DEBT (79%); TAX LAW (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); RECORD REVENUES (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); EURO (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%); TAX RELIEF (65%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); EMC CORP (81%); DATEK ONLINE HOLDINGS CORP (56%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (81%); BMY (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (74%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



761 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 25, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Police in Chechnya Say Russians Kill Civilians
Russian troops are killing civilians amid military operations aimed at destroying rebel forces nearly two years after major hostilities ended, Chechen police officials say. A1

Beirut Car Bomb Kills Chieftain
Elie Hobeika, a former Christian militia leader whose pro-Israeli gunmen carried out the massacre of Palestinians in the Sabra and Shatila camps in 1982, was killed near his home. A3

U.S. Pressure on Arafat
The Bush administration expressed tacit support for Israel's confinement of Yasir Arafat to his West Bank compound and said the next step in ending regional violence was up to him. A4

India Fires Missile in Test
India successfully tested one of its nuclear-capable Agni ballistic missiles, despite international appeals to ease military tensions with Pakistan. A6

World Briefing A8

NATION CHALLENGED A10-11

American With Taliban Hears Charges Against Him
John Walker Lindh, a 20-year-old Californian, had his first federal court appearance on charges arising from his capture with Taliban forces in Afghanistan. His lawyer hinted that the defense would be built on the idea of an innocent abroad being inadvertently drawn into a terror network. A1

Bush Hews to Wartime Budget
President Bush said he wanted to double spending on domestic security next year to nearly $38 billion, saying country was "still under attack." A11

Bioterror Germs Available
Scientists and international organizations that monitor disease outbreaks say new American laws and time-consuming and expensive measures to reassure the public may ultimately do little to keep deadly agents out of terrorists' hands. A11

U.S. Raid on Taliban
American troops killed as many as 15 Taliban fighters and captured 27 in a night fight 60 miles north of Kandahar, officials said. One American was wounded. A10

More Foreign Forces Urged
A senior United Nations official in Afghanistan, Francesc Vendrell, said the international security force in Kabul should be expanded across the country and increased to as many as 35,000 soldiers. A10

Muslim Cleric Interrogated
The authorities in Singapore questioned Abu Bakar Baasyir, 64, who is accused of leading a regionwide terror network with ties to Al Qaeda. A10

NATIONAL A12-19

Bipartisan Drive Succeeds In Gaining Soft-Money Vote
Advocates of overhauling the system of campaign financing gained enough support -- 218 members' signatures on a petition -- to force a full House vote on their legislation, saying their efforts had gained momentum from the Enron situation. A1

Greenspan's Advice on Taxes
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, gave his blessing to President Bush's tax cut but urged Congress to link any further tax cuts or spending increases to progress in paying down the national debt. A18

Mr. Greenspan said the economy appeared on the verge of recovery, and he signaled that the Fed was ready to end the string of interest rate cuts. C1

Wayward School Bus
An armed driver took 13 children on an unexplained 150-mile ride from a small Pennsylvania farm community to suburban Maryland, the F.B.I. said. No children were harmed. A12

Ruling Limits DNA Retesting
A federal appeals court in Virginia refused to let James Harvey, who was convicted of sex crimes 12 years ago, have DNA evidence in his case retested to take advantage of improved techniques that he said would lead to his exoneration. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Giuliani Archives Will Go To Private Group, Not City
A week before leaving office, Rudolph W. Giuliani's mayoral staff reached an unusual agreement with the Department of Records that gave custody of all of his mayoral papers and artifacts to a private nonprofit group that he will control. B1

A Spymaster Joins the N.Y.P.D.
The police filled the new position of deputy commissioner for intelligence with David Cohen, who spent 35 years in the C.I.A., including two years as director of operations, a post in which he oversaw espionage efforts. B3

Neediest Cases B8

EDUCATION

Journalism School Dean Leaving
Tom Goldstein will step down in June as dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University after five years in the post. B2

First Lady on Capitol Hill
Laura Bush testified before a Senate panel about the importance of early childhood education. A19

WEEKEND E1-38; E39-48

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Type of Stem Cell
Researchers in Minnesota say they have discovered a new and highly versatile class of adult stem cell, a finding that figures in the debate over the use of embryonic cells. A14

SPORTS D1-8

Hingis to Face Capriati
Martina Hingis beat Monica Seles, 4-6, 6-1, 6-4, and Jennifer Capriati beat Kim Clijsters, 7-5, 3-6, 6-1, to reach the Australia Open final. Thomas Johansson made it to the men's final. D2

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Enron Document Destruction
Lawmakers investigating Enron said its auditors, Arthur Andersen, destroyed files knowing they might be relevant to investigations. David B. Duncan, a fired Andersen partner, invoked his right against self-incrimination at a House hearing. A1

Enron executives led wealthy individuals and institutions to invest in one of Enron's trademark partnerships by dangling the prospect that inside knowledge could help them quickly double their money, according to partnership records and prospective investors. A1

Medicare H.M.O. Cutbacks
Large health insurers, which recruited elderly people to Medicare H.M.O.'s with offers of free prescriptions, are eliminating drug coverage or demanding more money. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES A20-21

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: Certified public scapegoat; comeback for campaign reform; birth-control politics.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E30
TV Listings E36
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TAX LAW (87%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); BOMBINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (78%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); AL-QAEDA (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); LAWYERS (70%); PETITIONS (67%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); KANDAHAR, AFGHANISTAN (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); ISRAEL (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2002 



762 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Kipling Knew What the U.S. May Now Learn 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
"Take up the White Man's burden," was Rudyard Kipling's notorious prescription for the United States as it began to rule the Philippine Islands. That refrain, from an 1899 poem, eventually became a key exhibit in the case against the racism and exploitation of 19th-century imperialism. Kipling's attitudes toward "new-caught, sullen peoples,/Half devil and half child" permanently sullied his reputation.
 The notion of "White Man's burden" once again seems peculiarly relevant in thinking about the war in Afghanistan. What are the goals of the Western powers as the region is transformed? What good can be expected and how can it be achieved? 
 For Kipling these issues were also personal. He was born in India, and though educated in England, he returned to India as a journalist. He hoped that his writing would reveal "the whole sweep and meaning of things throughout the empire." And in fact, from 1886 to 1901 his tales (including "The Man Who Would Be King"), his poems (including "Barrack-Room Ballads") and his 1901 novel, "Kim," began to do just that. 
In fact, assessments of Kipling's reputation and early works cannot be easily separated from evaluations of the British Empire. During his lifetime he was one of Britain's most renowned writers. He won the Nobel Prize, was praised by T. S. Eliot and became friends with King George V. For decades, films ranging from early silents to "Gunga Din" with Douglas Fairbanks Jr. celebrated Kipling's heroic vision.
But as the critic Edmund Wilson wrote, in literary circles the "eclipse of the reputation of Kipling" began as early as 1910. By 1941, when Wilson was writing, Kipling had "dropped out of modern literature." In 1942 George Orwell wrote: "During five literary generations every enlightened person has despised him" as "morally insensitive and aesthetically disgusting." And Lionel Trilling added to qualified literary praise a dismissal of Kipling's "bullying, ruthlessness and self-righteousness."
During the early 1960's more analytic treatment came into play in important essays and biographical studies by Noel Annan, Andrew Rutherford and other scholars. But Kipling became a specialized taste, alien to both the popular and political imaginations. Irving Howe's 1982 anthology, "The Portable Kipling," tried to provide some resuscitation with a surprisingly sympathetic introduction. "History has come to Kipling's rescue," Howe wrote, "What has replaced imperialism has often been something much worse."
But the academy seemed unimpressed until Kipling's injured literary corpse was used for postcolonial examinations of Western imperialism. More subtly, Edward Said wrote a perceptive analysis of "Kim" in his 1993 book, "Culture and Imperialism," calling the novel "rich and absolutely fascinating" but "profoundly embarrassing."
It will be interesting to see how Kipling fares in a new biography, "The Long Recessional" by David Gilmour, to be published this spring by Farrar, Straus & Giroux. But the war in Afghanistan should spur yet another examination, particularly as the West becomes involved in nation building. In a region long scarred by tribal and religious massacres, invasions, poverty and corruption, the hope is that over $4 billion in aid will lead to a Western-style democracy, a Western-style justice system and a relatively free economy.
But don't these ambitious humanitarian goals themselves require a form of imperialism not all that different from Britain's at its best? Don't these intentions unavoidably assert superiority? And may not these ambitions -- however fantastical -- possibly lead to varieties of exploitation and unexpected massacres now associated with the phrase "White Man's burden"? How are burdens of imperial power to be borne as they arise in new incarnations?
Kipling's work helps shed more light on these knotty problems than it might seem, given his reputation. In much of the early fiction an empathetic imagination displaces jingoistic doctrine. The imperial enterprise, Kipling suggests, is not so easy to evaluate. It is tinged by generosity as well as venality, tragedy as well as evil.
In "Kim," for example, the street urchin son of a low-life Irish soldier and a low-caste Indian mother learns to negotiate the teeming bazaar of Indian life, impersonating and conversing with sahibs (the ruling white men) along with Tibetans, Sikhs, Afghans and Muslims. But for Kim, social boundaries and hierarchies become porous.
These natives are not sullen half-men and half-children. They are rivalrous, brutish, generous, xenophobic, kind and corrupt -- very much like sahibs themselves. One central character says of the white rulers: "It is with them as with all men." Another character says that sahibs who don't understand the land or its peoples are "worse than the pestilence." The students in the elite sahib school where Kim is sent against his will are abusive, snobby, racist, part of a restrictive society that pales before Kim's experiences of India.
So the novel, far from celebrating imperial authority, dismantles it, as does Kipling's 1888 tale of perverse imperial designs, "The Man Who Would Be King." Among the craggy peaks and isolated plains of a land beyond Afghanistan, two scruffy white con men conquer a series of primitive tribes. In the new kingdom, the tribes prosper; the rulers are seen as gods. But then one "king" violates the rules of a culture he does not understand. He is revealed as "not a God nor a Devil" but a fallible and deceptive man. The natives crucify him in expiation of no one's sins but his own.
The imperial project then, is fraught with dangers that claims of superiority cannot fend off. Kipling must have also recognized that one could never eliminate enmity or create loyalty by tempering the imperial project with good deeds and some prosperity. How is a sense of superiority, then, to be combined with the cultural respect latent in many of Kipling's tales?
Kipling, of course, was sure of Britain's cultural superiority -- as indeed, America is of its own when confronted with the Taliban. But Kipling suggests that the superiority also entails sacrifice. All "profit and gain," he asserts in his poem, must be sought not for oneself but for the other. Famine and sickness must be eliminated. Battles for peace must be waged. But nothing should be expected in return. Even if the project succeeds -- something Kipling believed would never happen in India -- imperial power should expect only "the blame of those ye better/The hate of those ye guard." In the poem's imagery, the end of naive childhood for the conquered is also the weary end of naive childhood for the conqueror.
This makes the burden seem impossibly heavy and the conflicts irresolvable. But Kipling may have come closest to an ideal resolution in "Kim." Kim, a master of cultural masquerade, is gradually recruited into what was then known as the Great Game: he becomes a British agent, joining a multicultural espionage network intent on preventing a Russian invasion. Kim's support for the Game is taken for granted. Kim never even ponders why he plays the Game.
Many critics have pointed to this as the novel's failure. But the point is that for Kim, the Great Game is an abstract commitment, an enterprise so encompassing it has little to do with any particular identity, not even that of the sahibs. Kim is not all that different from the Tibetan lama he travels with, who seeks enlightenment by shedding all forms of identity. This may be the closest Kipling came to a utopian vision in which the tensions of imperialism are resolved.
Kipling himself could never live up to such an ideal; neither, perhaps, could Kim. Britain certainly didn't. Some modified version of the hope lies behind the establishment of the new Afghan government and the humanitarian ambitions of the West: a hope that somehow old identities will dissolve, that the conqueror will spur no resentment and that internal peace will reign. But as this Great Game becomes deadly serious, as a region resembling Kim's becomes better understood, and as new forms of imperialism take shape, Kipling's notorious and tragic burden begins to seem unavoidable. So does the likelihood that there will be no utopian resolution of its latent contradictions.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article in Arts & Ideas on Saturday about the relevance of Rudyard Kipling today referred incorrectly to the mother of the title character in the novel "Kim." He was the son of an English nursemaid and an Irish soldier, reared by an Indian woman who said she was Kim's aunt; he was not the son of a low-caste Indian woman.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kipling wrote of the Great Game in Asia. Here British troops enter the Bolan Pass in 1839. Britain feared Russians would use it and the Khyber Pass to invade India. (From "The Great Game" Kodansha by Peter Hopkirk)(pg. B7); Rudyard Kipling, left, and King George V visiting the graves of British soldiers in Belgium on June 3, 1922. (National Portrait Gallery, London)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BRITISH MONARCHS (88%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (87%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (59%)

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; KIPLING, RUDYARD (1865-1936) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); PHILIPPINES (91%); AFGHANISTAN (90%); INDIA (90%); ASIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); BELGIUM (59%) GREAT BRITAIN; INDIA; AFGHANISTAN

TITLE: KIM (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



763 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 43 words

HEADLINE: Corrections 

 BODY:
 In his column yesterday, Paul Krugman misattributed the source of the phrase "Clinton-Levitt recession," describing the current economic situation. Its author was Don Devine of the American Conservative Union, not Lawrence Kudlow. Mr. Krugman apologizes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); WRITERS (86%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORRECTION STORIES; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CONSERVATIVE UNION (83%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (90%) KRUGMAN, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



764 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: AMR Rejects Pilot Request on Regional Jets 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: FORT WORTH, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
The AMR Corporation rejected a proposal today from its American Airlines pilots to shift the flying of regional jets from its commuter unit, American Eagle, to American Airlines. AMR said the plan was not financially sound. 
 The proposal from the Allied Pilots Association came after American, the largest carrier, asked pilots to waive a contract provision limiting growth at the American Eagle unit. 
 AMR wants to expand its use of regional jets, aircraft that are less expensive to operate than larger jetliners and can fly farther than turboprops, to feed passengers to American Airlines. The pilots want to keep the growth restrictions on American Eagle as long as some American pilots remain laid off as a result of the steepened decline in travel since the Sept. 11 hijackings. 
"We told them it wasn't economically feasible," an American spokeswoman, Karen Watson, said. "The cost structures of the two are very different." 
The pilots union criticized the company for dismissing its three-phase proposal instead of negotiating specific terms or trying to reach a compromise on a short-term solution. 
"The specific cost structure under which these aircraft would be flown by our pilots would have been a negotiable item had management wished to pursue discussions," a union spokesman, Gregg Overman, said in a recorded message to pilots. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (92%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (90%); HIJACKING (73%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PILOTS; LABOR 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (98%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ALLIED PILOTS ASSOCIATION (58%) AMERICAN EAGLE AIRLINES; AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (98%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



765 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Fell in December, but the Yearly Total Set a Record 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan 25 

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes fell 0.8 percent in December, although total sales in 2001 were a record 5.251 million units, a trade association said today.
 Previously owned homes, the largest category of home sales, sold at a seasonally adjusted annualized pace of 5.19 million units last month, down from a revised rate of 5.23 million in November, the trade group, the National Association of Realtors, said. 
 The total for the year eclipses the previous record of 5.205 million homes sold in 1999. 
In December, the pace of house sales fell short of the expectations of analysts, who forecast a rate of 5.2 million home sales. A slight increase in mortgage rates in December was a factor, said David Lereah, chief economist of the association.
"The reason for the record, as we've been saying all along, is great fundamentals in the housing market," Mr. Lereah said. Those factors include low long-term mortgage interest rates and a lean inventory of homes for sale, he said. Mr. Lereah expects 2002 will be the third-best year on record.
Previously owned homes account for 85 percent of all houses sold and are considered an important gauge of consumer demand.
Housing is "being driven by historically low mortgage rates and, despite what people say about unemployment, 95 percent of the people are still employed," Daryl Jesperson, president of RE/MAX International, told Bloomberg News. 
By region, existing-home sales fell 1.6 percent in the Northeast, to a 630,000-unit pace, and dropped 2.4 percent in the South, to a 2 million-unit rate. Sales increased 0.9 percent in the Midwest, to a rate of 1.18 million units, and rose 0.7 percent in the West, to a 1.38 million-unit rate. 
Low mortgage rates have "provided considerable support" to home- building and sales in recent months, Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, told the Senate Budget Committee this week. While they have started to rise again, "mortgage rates remain at low levels and should continue to provide support to activity in this sector," he said.
The national median home price rose to $151,400 in December from $147,100 in November, and was $147,500 for the year as a whole. Inventories fell to a 4.2 months' supply of homes available at the current sales pace, down from a 4.8 months' supply in November. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (91%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (79%); INVENTORIES (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (61%) HOUSING; SALES 

COMPANY: RE/MAX INTERNATIONAL INC (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (67%); NAICS531320 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS (67%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (67%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (67%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: DAVID LEREAH (77%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (52%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



766 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: GROUND ZERO: FEDERAL AID; 
Pataki Asks To Oversee 9/11 Aid

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki has asked the State Legislature to give him the authority to oversee about $10 billion worth of federal aid that he expects to flow to the state to repair the damage done by terrorists, but legislative leaders are balking at the governor's request.
 The request is part of an $11.2 billion supplementary budget bill intended to fill holes and gaps in the state's spending plan for the fiscal year ending on April 1. The bill also contains $200 million to bolster security, $125 million for environmental programs and $287 million to cover a shortfall in the state's Medicaid program. But a fight is brewing over the governor's proposal that he be given the blanket authority to distribute up to $10 billion in federal aid for Lower Manhattan. 
 Congress has already approved more than $10 billion to help the state recover from Sept. 11, but very little of that money has been delivered to Albany yet. Once it arrives, the governor may not spend it without legislative approval. In essence, he is asking the Legislature for that approval in advance. 
Even though much of the aid expected to flow from Washington has been earmarked for specific purposes, legislative leaders in the State Assembly and Senate are reluctant to give Mr. Pataki complete control over such a large amount of aid, in advance, without seeing the details.
"I want to see, before we sign off on a blank check, what the purposes are for this money, how we are using it," said Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, a Democrat who by coincidence represents the neighborhood hardest hit by the attacks.
A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Joseph L. Bruno said the Republicans who control the Senate are also unlikely to support giving Mr. Pataki, who is also a Republican, the final word on the use of federal aid. "We would want to have a say in how those funds are directed," said the spokesman, John McArdle. "For any appropriation along these lines, it's appropriate for the Legislature to review and have some input."
Mr. Pataki's budget officers, however, maintain that most of the $10.4 billion in aid for Manhattan that Congress has approved so far is strictly regulated. The governor holds little sway over how the money is spent, they argue.
Legislative leaders, however, say that not all of the money Congress has approved is restricted to paying for the cleanup and rebuilding of the infrastructure around the blocks destroyed when hijacked jets rammed the twin towers, causing their collapse. Some of the money comes in the form of housing block grants, for instance, which the governor and his economic development corporation would control.
The relief package that Congress approved included about $6.4 billion that was provided to the Federal Emergency Management Agency to reimburse the city for debris removal and rebuilding at the disaster site. That money passes through state coffers but Albany lawmakers cannot touch it.
But the federal package also contains about $2.7 billion in block grants to help businesses and residents in the area. Here, the governor has much more influence, legislative aides said. The rescue plan also contains $400 million for transportation projects, $140 million to help New York hospitals, $175 million for workers' compensation, and $120 million in loans from the Small Business Administration.
Kevin Quinn, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki's budget office, said Congress has already put guidelines on the use of most of these funds. 
"The vast majority of these funds are simply passed on to New York City to meet their rebuilding and recovery needs," he said.
But legislative leaders point out that they already gave Mr. Pataki the authority to distribute $5 billion in federal aid back in September, and only about $375 million in disaster aid has passed through the state to the city. Some lawmakers wonder why the governor needs the blanket authority to spend another $10 billion without legislative approval.
But Mr. Pataki's aides said having a lump-sum appropriation means the state can get the federal aid to New York faster. "This will allow us to get those funds to New York City in the most expedited way possible," Mr. Quinn said. "We don't want to do anything that would delay getting the money to New York City." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HIJACKING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); MEDICAID (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); GRANTS & GIFTS (61%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); AIRLINES (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



767 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: New President of Trinity To Keep Hartford Focus 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
Trinity College in Hartford has named Richard H. Hersh, the former president of Hobart and William Smith Colleges in upstate New York and a fervent advocate of liberal arts education, as its next president.
 Dr. Hersh, 59, who will take his new helm in April, succeeds Evan S. Dobelle, who won national attention for using the college's resources to spur urban renewal in the city. Mr. Dobelle left last July to become president of the University of Hawaii, and Ronald R. Thomas has been the acting president since then. 
 With Dr. Hersh's appointment, the trustees are signaling their desire not only to continue Mr. Dobelle's work but also to pay greater attention to the college itself and the education it offers. Under Mr. Dobelle, the goal was to try to improve the college's setting and turn it into a plus.
Trinity put more than $5 million of its own money into an urban renewal project called the Learning Corridor, which resulted in the opening of several new public schools for the city's children. The school also worked with government officials and private industry to make the streets safer, to make mortgages more available and to expand job training.
"We've worked real hard on improving the physical plant at Trinity and on the community surrounding it," said Thomas S. Johnson, chairman of the board at Trinity and the leader of the presidential search committee. "And we have worked real hard on Trinity's finances. It isn't a question of deviating from any of that, but of making sure that the richness of that experience gets built into the curriculum in a more cohesive way."
Dr. Hersh yesterday applauded Mr. Dobelle's leadership and reaffirmed the need for the college to continue its work with the community.
"We'll be involved every bit as much," he said. 
But he added that he would "do it in my own way," and suggested it would center more explicitly on the educational value of such involvement.
Most of Dr. Hersh's career has been spent in education: he earned a doctorate in education at Boston University, and then climbed the administrative ranks at a variety of colleges, including Harvard, Clark, Drake, the University of Toledo, the University of Oregon, and Hobart and William Smith.
But he pointed out that community involvement has been an important part of his life as well. He said he has worked on an urban teacher corps, with community groups fighting for fair housing and civil rights, and as a town selectman.
His primary passion is for liberal arts education, which he called the best and most practical education for the 21st century.
"We know that powerful feedback from caring adults is the most powerful form of teaching there is," he said.
The campus Dr. Hersh is joining is similar in many ways to the one he left. They are both small, co-ed, liberal arts colleges with fewer than 2,000 students, founded in the early 1820's. Trinity, however, sits in a more urban setting and has a more diverse and somewhat academically stronger student body. Its endowment is also bigger -- about $350 million. Under Dr. Hersh, Hobart's endowment grew from $26 million to $105 million and the campus revamped its curriculum, raised its admissions standards and retention rates and began to send more than half of its students overseas.
For Dr. Hersh, the new job is a lucky coincidence. He left Hobart and William Smith in 1999 after eight years as president because his wife, Judith Meyers, took a job in Connecticut and they did not want to have a commuting marriage. Since then he has worked on educational grants with the Christian A. Johnson Endeavor Foundation in New York City, and with the Council for Aid to Education on a project to measure how well students learn.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 30, 2002

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the appointment of Richard H. Hersh as president of Trinity College in Hartford listed a university erroneously among his past employers. He has not worked at Clark University.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard H. Hersh, Trinity College's next head, now has a job in the state where his wife, Dr. Judith Meyers, a psychologist, works. (George Rohe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (57%) TRINITY COLLEGE (HARTFORD) 

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (58%) ARENSON, KAREN W; HERSH, RICHARD H 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



768 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: He Plays Boswell In Storied Stadium; 
Yankees' Tour Guide Knows All And Worries About New Park

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER 

 BODY:
Tony Morante is a middle-aged man of average height and average weight with a graying mustache, wire-rimmed glasses and thinning light-brown hair. He is 59, has lived in the Bronx his entire life and his most extraordinary trait is knowing more about Yankee Stadium than any other person currently alive on Earth does.
 Mr. Morante is the stadium's tour guide -- a position created just for him in 1979. He is the official storyteller for what may be the most storied sports arena in the country. He has led, by his own account, more than 10,000 tours of the famous ballpark and can provide, without the slightest hint of effort, an exhaustive 15-minute lecture on the locker room alone. 
 He is quick to inform tour-takers that the 11.6-acre plot beneath the stadium was bought by the Yankees from the Astor estate in 1921 for $675,000. An hour in his company will send a listener home with the knowledge that no player has ever hit a ball completely out of the park, though two have come fairly close -- Negro Leagues slugger Josh Gibson in 1934 and Mickey Mantle in both 1956 and 1963. 
"It's part of my life, this place, a part of me," he said the other day inside the Babe Ruth Hall of Fame Suite, a luxury loge one level up behind home plate. "I have a lot of feelings here that go way beyond fandom, way beyond making this the place I go to work."
Mr. Morante has worked at the stadium since 1958 -- first as an usher in the upper deck -- but his job as tour guide has become a bit uncertain in recent weeks. Just before leaving office, the departing mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, announced a $1.6 billion plan for new stadiums for the Yankees and their crosstown rivals, the New York Mets.
With the city's finances shaken by recession and terrorist attacks, even the Boston Red Sox may have a World Series ring or two before Yankee Stadium is replaced and demolished, although the talk of tearing it down has Mr. Morante thinking. He has been gathering arcana on the ballpark for more than 40 years, and all that knowledge could, with the stroke of a pen, be rendered obsolete.
"I'd hate to see it go, I really would, but you can't be mired in the past," he said. "Mr. Steinbrenner" -- that is, George Steinbrenner, the Yankee's principal owner -- "is looking toward the future. It's up to the boss, and I'm sure the boss will do whatever is best for the team."
If this sounds like the company line, it is, but the look in Mr. Morante's eye -- like that of a boy who expected a chemistry set for Christmas but got a pair of socks instead -- betrays far more than his words do.
He was 6 when he first set foot in Yankee Stadium. He knows which locker Joe DiMaggio used.
His father was an usher, too, and man and boy worked side-by-side in the now-vanished mezzanine loges that were known as Millionaire's Row. His father would tell him things like, "Yo, let's go! Six hot dogs for the gentlemen from Howard Johnson's!" And Tony Jr. would fetch those hot dogs fast for 10-cent tips.
His father, Tony Sr., ("Use the name Tony in the Bronx," he says, "and you've got it right at least 50 percent of the time") was the first civilian on the field to congratulate Don Larsen on his perfect game in the 1956 World Series. The Yankees have a film clip of the moment, and Mr. Morante employs it as part of his tour. It always chokes him up to see his father storming the mound, arms up in a swarm of players, ecstatic and bouncing in his pageboy cap. 
Mr. Morante gives his tours each day at noon at the price of $12 for adults and $6 for kids, and they are filled with personal memories. His style is that of an old pal leading you through the creaky rooms and hallways of his house. For every scripted line about scalloped facades and triumphant Yankee dynasties, there are off-the-cuff remembrances. He walks backward, facing his group, and recalls working on the three-man suicide squad that protected Mantle from the fans by meeting him at second base at the end of a game and escorting him off the field. 
When he tells people that the center-field fence used to be much farther away from home plate than it is now, it is embedded in a story about his favorite Yankee moment -- Chris Chambliss' pennant-winning homer in 1976. When he reminds his listeners that the New York Giants football team played there for several years, it comes with the tale of watching his father knock out a rowdy fan who tried to pull the goal posts down.
Tony Morante was raised in Bathgate, a neighborhood in the central Bronx, and except for a brief tour in the Navy and a four-year stint on Wall Street has never held a job outside the stadium walls. He wears a 2000 World Series ring on his left middle finger and sometimes greets people with a hearty "Top of the morning!" He is of Bronx-Italian extraction, pronouncing mozzarella cheese the way it should be: "mutz-a-rel."
In January, the right-field line is buried in snow and the infield a mound of fresh-turned dirt. As Mr. Morante begins his tour in the press box, he mentions that a 19th-century reporter by the name of Henry Chadwick created the art of sportswriting. His group, however, seems far more captivated by the wintry diamond below, was reminiscent of a Hollywood starlet caught on the street without her makeup on.
He takes his group down to the clubhouse for a 10-minute lesson on the uniforms the Yankees have worn for nearly 100 years. The interlocking NY, he says, was designed by Louis Comfort Tiffany in 1877 to commemorate the first police officer shot in the line of duty in New York. The design was eventually adopted by the team.
Mr. Morante is just a tour guide, but he has ambitions and is rapidly branching out. He contributes the occasional column to The Bronx Times Reporter, a local newspaper, and is hard at work on a book entitled, "Baseball: The New York Game."
The History Channel has tapped him to do a segment on the famous deal that brought Babe Ruth from the Red Sox to New York, and Fordham University has asked him to submit a proposal for teaching a college course on baseball history. There is even some loose talk floating around his office that he will be named the official curator of the new Yankee Stadium, if one is ever built.
Still, Tony Morante will miss the old place, should it vanish. He will miss telling wide-eyed tourists that Derek Jeter has an extra locker in the clubhouse for his fan mail. He will miss telling them that the Yankees have worn their pinstriped jerseys since April 11, 1912.
He sits in the Babe Ruth Suite when his tour is done and, once more, watches the old clip of his father rushing the pitcher's mound in 1956. The film jumps to last year's World Series, when the Yankees, their backs to the wall, won the next two games at home. The narrator says, "Two nights! Two dreams!" and Tony Morante repeats it under his breath. "I still get goose bumps," he says.
By now, he is staring out the window of the loge, at the mezzanine boxes where Millionaire's Row once stood.
"I used to run up and down those stairs," he says. "I had a chance to meet all those wonderful people. They touch you in so many different ways and give you memories that you're able to take with you.
'It's gonna be tough, it's gonna be tough. You can't be mired in the past, you have to embrace the future. And there's at least another four or five years, right? And I'll be able to say it's been a good run."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Morante, Yankee Stadium's tour guide, knows more about the ballpark than anyone else. He is so much a part of the Yankee family that he has a 2000 World Series ring. (Photographs by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Tony Morante, the Yankee Stadium tour guide, takes a group through the home team's locker room. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (78%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) BASEBALL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; YANKEE STADIUM (NYC); WORLD SERIES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%) NEW YORK YANKEES 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (50%) FEUER, ALAN; MORANTE, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



769 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs; 
A revival of religious traditions sweeps Vietnam. A rejection of modernization? Seemingly not.

BYLINE:  By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
Dong Ho is a Vietnamese village near Hanoi where for centuries families have created bold, colorful woodblock prints portraying village scenes, folk tales and national legends. This ancient art form is now supported there by Unesco. 
 But when Mary Cross and Frances FitzGerald visited Dong Ho in the spring of 2000, they found only two families pursuing that endeavor. Most of the villagers devoted themselves to fashioning the paper objects that Vietnamese burn so that their ancestors may enjoy in the afterlife the material things that those objects represent. Alongside paper likenesses of age-old items like shoes, shirts and money were ingeniously constructed paper versions of distinctly modern things like motorbikes and cellphones. 
 That image encapsulates the story that Ms. FitzGerald tells in "Vietnam: Spirits of the Earth" (Bulfinch Press/Little, Brown), a large new volume joining her text with Ms. Cross's striking, often poignant photographs.
Author of "Fire in the Lake: The Vietnamese and the Americans in Vietnam," which won a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award in 1973, Ms. FitzGerald reported from Vietnam at various times from 1966 to 1974 and began revisiting in 1993. 
Now, half a century after a nationalist Communist government took power in the north and a quarter-century after it extended its sway to the whole country, what she has found is an astonishing revival of traditional religious rituals and institutions.
It is a revival that, as Ms. FitzGerald sees it, and as those paper motorbikes and cellphones suggest, is far more of a piece with modernization than in conflict with it. 
At the heart of many a Vietnamese village, especially in the north, the dinh -- the communal house that serves not only as a meeting place for the elders but also as a sanctuary for the village's guardian spirit -- has been restored or refurbished. The annual festivals for the guardian spirits have been revived, complete with offerings, banquets and entertainment. (They make one think of Latin Roman Catholicism's feasts and processions for local patron saints.)
The Vietnamese cult of ancestors, Ms. FitzGerald reports, is no less resurgent, reflected in the care for ancestral altars, the resumption of family rituals and the construction or repair of lineage halls, which are shrines that contain ancestral tablets and clan genealogical charts.
Meanwhile, Buddhism, which in Vietnam coexists more or less harmoniously with Confucianism, Taoism and the cults of villages and ancestors, draws increasing numbers of pilgrims and supplicants to restored pagodas in search of divine favors or spiritual enlightenment.
Several weeks in Vietnam, sticking to major cities, well-known cultural sites and the better roads, provided this visitor at least superficial confirmation of Ms. FitzGerald's observations: ubiquitous family altars and renovated village temples and pagodas. (To be sure, some of the fresh paint was preparation for next month's celebration of Tet, the Lunar New Year, Vietnam's biggest holiday.)
Vietnamese who know the countryside also confirmed her thesis of religious revival. There was less agreement, however, on why it was occurring. 
Among the explanations were the idea that a revival of tradition was filling a void created by the collapse of Marxism, and the cynical view that government authorities were encouraging the colorful trappings of religion as bait for tourists.
Unquestionably, the government, after decades of discouraging religious practices as wasteful and superstitious, has reversed course and blessed some of them as culturally significant. In a still-poor nation that has been almost frantically trying to build a market economy for the last decade, officials are discovering, Ms. FitzGerald believes, that religious traditions may help maintain social ties and even spur productivity in a way that collectivization failed abysmally to do.
Not that Vietnam's Communist government has been converted to genuine freedom of religion. Conditions for believers are clearly improving, but the United States State Department and the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom have amply documented the many restrictions that continue to hamper even officially recognized religious institutions, like Roman Catholicism and the Buddhist umbrella group organized by the government itself in 1981.
The government regulates their choice of leaders, limits their recruitment of clergy and keeps a tight rein on their few publications and charitable activities. Groups that are not recognized -- like the Protestant "house churches" of ethnic minorities in the mountain areas or the dissident United Buddhist Church of Vietnam -- face harsher forms of suppression, though often more by arbitrary local officials than by the central government.
What the Vietnamese Communist Party fears is obviously not personal or familial piety but anything that could become a rival political base or a nucleus of ethnic separatism.
Those possibilities seem distant, however, from the hopes that bring women to offer fruit and to light joss sticks at the Quan Su Pagoda in Hanoi or the devotion that packs people into Sunday Mass at nearby St. Joseph's Cathedral. 
Ms. FitzGerald does not rush to judgment about any of this -- how much reflects a popular religious "equivalent of insurance policies" in an unfamiliar, high-risk economy; how much reflects a need for social ballast in a turbulent time; how much reflects a profound search for spiritual meaning and transcendence.
But she does challenge the often-assumed simple opposition between religious revival and modernization.
"In Vietnam," she writes in the January issue of Smithsonian magazine, in a condensation of her text, "the revival of the rites does not mean a return to the past. People reconstruct their lineage halls and their dinh ceremonies, but they do not therefore reject public schools, agricultural machinery or the considerable improvements in the status of women."
"What we are witnessing is the traditional order reasserting itself in order to deal with what Westerners blithely call modernization," she concludes. "The Vietnamese are going back to tradition and forward at the same time. More precisely, they are reclaiming and refashioning their traditions in order to move on." 
Which in fact sums up a great deal of religious history. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); FOLKLORE (90%); FAMILY (89%); CULTS & SECTS (86%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (74%); WRITERS (74%); LITERATURE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (69%); BUILDING RENOVATION (68%); FESTIVALS (67%); TAOISTS & TAOISM (64%) RELIGION AND CHURCHES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS EDUCATIONAL SCIENTIFIC & CULTURAL ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: FITZGERALD, FRANCES; CROSS, MARY; STEINFELS, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (90%) VIET NAM (97%); VIETNAM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%) VIETNAM

TITLE: VIETNAM: SPIRITS OF THE EARTH (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



770 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: GROUND ZERO: UNEMPLOYMENT; 
Jobless Funds Running Low in New York

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
New York State is about to run out of money to pay unemployment insurance benefits, prompting state officials yesterday to ask the federal government for up to $740 million in loans. 
 The state has also asked the federal Department of Labor for a grant of $266 million to cover the unemployment benefits of the 103,641 people that it says have been displaced so far by the World Trade Center disaster. While the loans are automatically authorized, such a grant would require Congressional approval. 
 As of the middle of January, the unemployment insurance fund had about $200 million, down from $1.2 billion a year ago, said Betsy McCormack, director of communications for the State Department of Labor, which administers the insurance fund. The state is asking for $90 million in February, $350 million in March, and $300 million in April.
Statewide, initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits shot up in late September and early October, when more than 30,000 people a week applied for benefits, more than half of them in New York City. While applications for benefits subsequently dropped off, they remain about 30 percent higher than at this point last year (and 40 percent higher in New York City).
Labor advocates have been complaining for months that the fund's reserves have been too low, but Ms. McCormack said that the state has a policy of trying to keep payroll taxes low.
The insurance fund is paid for by taxes on employers. Those taxes will rise this year, by $35 to $42 an employee a year, or by 12 percent to 16 percent, Ms. McCormack said. The amount companies pay per worker varies widely and depends, in part, on how often they lay off employees. 
New York should have been building up reserves in the fund in anticipation of having to cover more laid-off workers during a recession, said Maurice Emsellem, director of public policy for the National Employment Law Project. 
Having to borrow the money "is not good planning and in the end it hurts workers," Mr. Emsellem said. "There will be more pressure to deny benefits because the funds are low, and it will be much more difficult to expand benefits." 
Currently, laid-off workers can receive as much as $405 a week for half a year, though they can be required to take a job after 13 weeks. The state forecasts that workers laid off because of the events of Sept. 11 will get an average of $283 a week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); HIJACKING (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); APPROVALS (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); DISPLACED PERSONS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (65%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (64%); TERRORISM (60%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (84%)

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



771 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Still Shortchanging the City's Schools 

BYLINE:  By Michael A. Rebell; Michael A. Rebell is director of the Campaign for Fiscal Equity.

 BODY:
Governor George Pataki said, in this year's State of the State address, that we need to "throw out the existing school aid formula and to achieve equity." Last year he delivered a similar message, calling the current system for financing our public schools a "dinosaur" that should be "on the ash heap of history." At about the same time, State Supreme Court Justice Leland DeGrasse issued a landmark ruling in Campaign for Fiscal Equity v. State of New York, declaring the state's school funding system inequitable and unconstitutional. 
 The governor's decision in March of last year to appeal the decision has put on hold the reforms ordered by the judge, and in the absence of legal compulsion, the governor and the Legislature have done almost nothing to make education financing serve all of New York's residents. The budget they enacted last year caused widespread cutbacks in education and created even greater inequities. 
 This week, Governor Pataki issued a budget proposal that provided a veneer of reform but essentially maintained the status quo. And by keeping the state's total spending on schools at last year's dollar levels, with no inflation adjustment, the budget will almost certainly cause educational services to be reduced.
New York's political leaders will not, however, be able to ignore the movement for education finance reform for long. The plaintiffs' victory in the lawsuit last year was not an isolated event. It was the latest in a series of legal challenges to inadequate state education spending that have been filed in over 40 states. In the past 12 years, plaintiffs have prevailed in the overwhelming majority of those cases.
The astounding success of these plaintiffs is rooted in an egalitarian imperative that is part of America's political culture. The desire to have public schooling that could equally serve all Americans inspired the 19th century "common school" movement. This movement culminated in the incorporation into many state constitutions of provisions guaranteeing,as New York's constitution puts it, a "a system of free common schools, wherein all the children of this state may be educated."
Justice DeGrasse's decision held that it is the state's constitutional duty to provide students with the skills they need for sustained employment in a competitive market and to be capable voters and jurors. There is no debate that a significant number of public schools in this state are unable to carry out this duty. The lack of adequate resources to meet educational needs, particularly in urban schools, is also indisputable.
Governor Pataki now has an opportunity to redeem his political pledges -- and get beyond legal delay tactics. He should convene an education summit to bring legislative leaders, parents, teachers and community leaders together. They would be charged with developing a fair financing plan that would calculate the amount needed to provide basic services to all students, adjust appropriately for differences in costs of living in various parts of the state and ensure stable funding from year to year. This would provide students with the resources they need to meet the state's challenging new high-school graduation standards. Even if not all needs can be fully financed in this difficult time, agreement on a fair process, an appropriate down payment and a definitive schedule would further New York's constitutional commitment to providing equal educational opportunity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION FUNDING (92%); GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); APPEALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); JURY TRIALS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); LITIGATION (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (68%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); REBELL, MICHAEL A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



772 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: A Harvard Star In Black Studies Joins Princeton 

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG 

 BODY:
One of the stars of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard University resigned his professorship yesterday and accepted an offer to join the faculty of rival Princeton University, raising questions about whether other professors from the department would follow.
 The professor, K. Anthony Appiah, resigned only weeks after another member of his department, Cornel West, said that he and other professors were considering offers from Princeton because of concerns that Harvard's new president was not fully committed to a strong department and to affirmative action. 
 After Dr. West's complaints became public, the Harvard president, Lawrence H. Summers, appeared to quell the dispute -- and to head off an immediate departure by Dr. West or other members of the department -- by professing support for diversity at Harvard. 
But Professor Appiah's appointment to the Princeton faculty, which is to be formally voted on Saturday by the university's board of trustees, poses a fresh threat to Mr. Summers's efforts to hold Harvard's nationally known department together.
Professor Appiah, an expert on African philosophy, said in an interview yesterday that he was not leaving Harvard because he shared Dr. West's complaints about Mr. Summers. Instead, Professor Appiah said he had grown tired of commuting weekly to Cambridge, Mass., from New York City, where he has lived for seven years.
But Professor Appiah's departure raised immediate questions about whether Harvard could retain the department's chairman, Henry Louis Gates Jr., who has collaborated with Professor Appiah for two decades and who, along with Dr. West, was contacted by Princeton last year. Professors Gates and Appiah were graduate students together at Cambridge, and later worked alongside each other at Yale, Cornell and Duke before joining the Harvard faculty in 1991.
"Obviously, Anthony Appiah and I are very close," Professor Gates said. "His departure would be one of several factors that I would have to consider in arriving at a decision. But for the past decade I have been a devoted citizen of Harvard. My colleagues and I have worked diligently to create a great center of African-American studies, and it would be difficult for me to decide to leave."
Professor Gates was responsible for luring academic all-stars like William Julius Wilson and Lani Guinier to Harvard in recent years.
It was impossible to determine last night whether Professor Gates would seriously consider an offer from Princeton, or was merely seeking to gain additional leverage for his department with Mr. Summers. But by his departure, Professor Appiah has strengthened Professor Gates's hand.
At the same time, the hiring of Professor Appiah, 47, is a major lift to those at Princeton who have been seeking to transform its African-American studies program, which does not award undergraduate degrees, into a full-fledged department on par with Harvard's. In a world in which the comings and goings of top scholars are often tracked as if they were trades between Major League Baseball teams, Professor Appiah's move to Princeton represents a bit of payback for Dr. West's defection to Harvard from Princeton in 1994.
A native of Ghana, Professor Appiah has written several well-received books, including "In My Father's House: Africa in the Philosophy of Culture" (Oxford Press, 1992), which The Independent of London described as "an erudite and demanding work, engaging with debates in moral philosophy, anthropology and the politics of racial and national identity." With Professor Gates, Professor Appiah created a sprawling encyclopedia on CD-ROM that sought to document the breadth of the African experience from its earliest tracings to the present day.
But it was another collaborator, Amy Gutmann, now the provost of Princeton, who ultimately won Professor Appiah over. The two wrote "Color Conscious: The Political Morality of Race" (Princeton University Press, 1998).
"I have no dissatisfaction with Larry Summers or anyone in the department at Harvard," Professor Appiah said yesterday. "I'm leaving because of the personal and intellectual opportunities at Princeton."
A Princeton spokeswoman, Marilyn Marks, said she would have no comment on Professor Appiah before Saturday. "The trustees are meeting tomorrow and faculty appointments are always on the agenda," she said yesterday. "When it happens, if it happens, when any appointment is made, at that point we would announce it. We haven't announced anything yet."
President Summers, who was traveling to Japan, said in a statement released through a Harvard spokesman that Professor Appiah had "made important contributions" at Harvard and "will be missed."
The Boston Globe first reported the rift between Mr. Summers and the Afro-American studies department in late December. The dispute was touched off during a meeting earlier in the year in which Mr. Summers urged Dr. West, among others, to serve as a leader in tamping down grade inflation and encouraged Dr. West to embark on a new work of scholarship befitting his elite designation as University Professor at Harvard. While he has written several books in recent years, Dr. West also served as an adviser on the presidential campaign of Bill Bradley and recorded a rap album.
In early January, Mr. Summers met again with Dr. West, this time to make amends, and said afterward that any perception that he had insulted the professor was a "misunderstanding."

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2002

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Saturday about a decision by Prof. K. Anthony Appiah to leave Harvard for Princeton misstated his birthplace. It was England; he moved to Ghana at age 1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: K. Anthony Appiah resigned his post at Harvard yesterday. (Harvard University)(pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS 

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY; PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (90%) STEINBERG, JACQUES; APPIAH, K ANTHONY (PROF); SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; WEST, CORNEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



773 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Orders Review Of Contracts in Enron Case
The White House ordered federal agencies to consider dropping contracts worth more than $60 million a year with Enron and Arthur Andersen, saying the accusations swirling around the companies raised doubts about whether they should be receiving taxpayer money.
 The order continued a pattern by the Bush administration of trying to distance itself from a corporate meltdown whose aftershocks have been felt in both the political and business worlds. Page A1. 

The body of a former Enron vice chairman was discovered in a Houston suburb after he apparently killed himself. The executive, J. Clifford Baxter, quit last May after voicing concerns about the company's direction. A1.

Questions About Loans at ImClone
ImClone Systems, already facing an inquiry into whether it misled investors about the status of its cancer drug, disclosed that its chief executive, Samuel D. Waksal, has lost 80 percent of his shares because they had been pledged as collateral for loans. The fact that Dr. Waksal had borrowed against his stock could raise questions about whether he had an incentive to keep the stock price high. C3.

At least six drug makers have received approval to market metformin, a generic version of the diabetes drug Glucophage. C3

Sales of Homes Fell in December
Sales of existing homes fell 0.8 percent in December, although total sales in 2001 were a record 5.251 million units, the National Association of Realtors reported. The total for the year eclipsed the previous record of 5.205 million homes in 1999. C3.

Canadian Companies Talk Merger
Two oil and gas producers in Canada, Alberta Energy and PanCanadian Energy, said they were discussing a possible merger. The combined company would have a market value of about $12.5 billion. C2.

Ericsson Posts a Loss for 2001
Ericsson, the maker of telephone equipment, has reported its first unprofitable year in half a century and warned that losses in the first quarter would be greater than expected. Ericsson's sagging fortunes are emblematic of wider problems facing the industry. C2.

Amazon Looks for an Encore
Talk to Jeffrey P. Bezos, the co-founder and chief executive of Amazon, and he will speak of myriad ways that Amazon has refined its strategy and tactics over the last year. But what is most striking is how, unlike nearly every other Internet company, Amazon is not pulling back from the audacious combination of ambition and idealism that drove his initial vision. News Analysis. C2.

Conflicting Signals for the Market
Investors gave blue chip shares a lift but pushed technology shares slightly lower as they tried to deal with conflicting economic signals. The Dow Jones industrial average finished up 44.01, closing the week with three sessions on the upside. C7.

Alaska Air Reports a Loss
The Alaska Air Group, the parent for Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air, said that it had a net loss of $36.4 million, despite receiving more than $50 million from the government. C7

The AMR Corporation has rejected a proposal from its American Airlines pilots to shift the flying of regional jets to American Airlines from its commuter unit, American Eagle. C7

A Move to Join Asbestos Claims
The Big Three automakers have asked a federal judge to consolidate most asbestos claims pending against them in an effort to thwart the kind of crippling liabilities the lawsuits have spawned in other industries. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,840.08 UP 44.01Nasdaq composite -- 1,937.70 DOWN 4.8810-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.07% UP 0.06The euro -- $0.8652 DOWN 0.0119The dollar -- 134.27 yen DOWN 0.52 Graph tracking the stock price of Amazon.com since January 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MERGERS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); EXISTING HOME SALES (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); RETAIL SALES (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%); CANCER (68%); CANCER DRUGS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (65%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (62%); AIRLINES (60%); DIABETES (51%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (54%)

TICKER: ALK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%) SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (91%); ALBERTA, CANADA (54%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



774 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: GOLF; 
Waldorf Moves Up; Tryon Set to Move On

BYLINE:  By CLIFTON BROWN 

DATELINE: SCOTTSDALE, Ariz., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
Duffy Waldorf did enough to take the lead. Ty Tryon did enough to make himself proud.
 When today's second-round play was suspended because of darkness, Waldorf was the clubhouse leader at 12 under par. His second straight 65 gave him a 130 total, one stroke better than Vijay Singh and Rory Sabbatini. Tryon was six over par through 15 holes, with virtually no chance to make the projected even-par cut when second-round play resumes Saturday morning. 
 Tryon, however, insisted he would remember this week fondly. After his awful opening-round 77, which included five bogeys over his first seven holes, Tryon, 17, showed his resiliency, playing his last six holes today at two under par, including consecutive birdies at No. 13 and No. 14. Tryon also soaked up the atmosphere, inspired by the fans who cheered him late this afternoon, while looking forward to his next event, the Genuity Classic, in Miami (Feb. 28 to March 3).
Tryon, the youngest player to earn his PGA Tour card, also showed his sense of humor when reminded that he was one of 25 players who would complete their second rounds Saturday morning.
"I made it to the weekend," Tryon said, smiling. "I knew I'd make it to the weekend somehow.
"I learned a lot this week. There was so much buildup coming into this tournament. I had a great time. I learned how to deal with all the pressure, and what happens when you don't deal with it the right way. I could've given up. I was seven over through my first nine holes, which isn't very good in professional golf. But nine holes isn't going to ruin my whole year. I just have to keep my head up and keep going."
Waldorf, meanwhile, will try to keep it going this weekend. A four-time winner on the Tour, Waldorf is coming off a subpar 2001, when he finished 120th on the money list and managed just one top-10 finish. Knowing that his chipping and putting slipped last year, Waldorf spent the off-season working on his short game, and it paid off quickly.
"I've been trying to be a little more aggressive around the greens," said Waldorf, who made a 25-foot chip-in for birdie during a round that included seven birdies, an eagle and three bogeys. "My short game has been better this year. That has really been the difference."
After missing the cut at the Sony Open in Hawaii, Waldorf bounced back with a tie for 31st last week at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. Building on that momentum, Waldorf has been solid off the tee this week, enabling him to capitalize on the three par-5's at the T.P.C. of Scottsdale. Through two rounds, Waldorf had made five birdies in the six par-5's. The only exception was No. 15 today, where he made eagle.
"That's a good exception," Waldorf said.
Known for his colorful shirts and the unorthodox markings he puts on his golf balls, Waldorf wore a relatively subdued outfit today, including a light-blue hat that read "The Duffy." In a sign of the economic times, Waldorf does not yet have an endorsement contract for the front of his hat. Waldorf has gotten some offers but none that he has found acceptable.
"I'm not going to give it away, it's business," Waldorf said. "Instead of taking a low offer, you'd rather just wait for a better deal to come along. Either a better deal will come, or times will change and there will be more deals available."
If Waldorf wins this weekend, it will only help his business leverage. And if he continues to putt as well as he did today, he will not fall out of contention. Waldorf made three putts from 25 feet or more for birdie, keeping the momentum in his round headed in a positive direction.
"I haven't putted that well for quite some time," Waldorf said. "I feel good on the greens. It's interesting. I was almost better off putting long ones for birdie than short ones for par."
So, while the tournament was far from decided, Waldorf liked his position heading into the weekend, after missing the cut at Phoenix last year.
"I kind of found my game early last week and it carried through for a good tournament," Waldorf said. "I'm playing well."

CHIP SHOTS
MIKE SPOSA made a hole in one at the par-3 No. 16, using a 7-iron from 170 yards. The huge crowd surrounding No. 16 went wild as the ball disappeared into the cup. . . . STEVE FLESCH, who began the second round with a one-stroke lead, shot a 72 and fell to six under. . . . KIRK TRIPLETT (sprained ankle) withdrew after an opening-round 69 and shooting 36 on the front nine Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Duffy Waldorf was the clubhouse leader after the second round was suspended because of darkness. (Jeff Gross/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%) GOLF; PHOENIX OPEN (GOLF) 

PERSON: BROWN, CLIFTON; WALDORF, DUFFY 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



775 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Letter to Kmart Starts an Accounting Inquiry 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN with GREG WINTER

 BODY:
The Kmart Corporation said yesterday that it had hired outside accountants to investigate charges made in an anonymous letter "expressing concern regarding unspecified accounting matters."
 Kmart, the third-largest retail chain, which filed for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, said that it had informed the Securities and Exchange Commission about the letter and that the commission had "subsequently authorized a private investigation." The commission declined to comment. 
 A Kmart spokesman, Jack Ferry, said the discount retailer received the letter "about a week ago."
"It was unsigned and very vague," Mr. Ferry said, "but it did raise questions about accounting, and we take that very seriously."
Despite the vagueness of the charges, Kmart has little choice but to take them seriously, financial analysts say, in the context of heightened sensitivity to corporate wrongdoing as a result of the collapse of the Enron Corporation and questions surrounding the work of Enron's auditors at Arthur Andersen.
The letter was addressed to the S.E.C.; Kmart's auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers; and the Kmart directors. "The letter has been referred to the audit committee of the board of directors," Kmart said in a release, "which promptly engaged outside counsel and accounting consultants to conduct an independent investigation."
The contents of the letter were also disclosed to the bankers who were discussing debtor-in-possession financing for the company last week, a person close to the negotiations said. The bankers are not concerned that accounting irregularities played a part in Kmart's bankruptcy filing, that person said.
Although the banks that lent money to Kmart may say they are contented with its financial practices, many of the company's suppliers, which together face losses of hundreds of millions of dollars, are angry and asking questions. 
In particular, some suppliers have questioned the timing of Kmart's decision to file for bankruptcy protection, as the company still had $300 million on its bank loan and ample inventory.
"They could have gotten the money from the banks," said an executive with a factoring company that had significant exposure to Kmart. 
At a hearing on Tuesday before Chief Judge Susan Pierson Sonderby at United States Bankruptcy Court in Chicago, Kmart's lawyer, John W. Butler Jr. of the firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, said the events that led to the bankruptcy filing could be described as a perfect storm.
He cited several factors including a rapid decline in liquidity, losses in the surety bond market, erosion of supplier confidence, the recession and "unprecedented difficulty in the holiday season."
This will not be the first time that Charles C. Conaway, who is Kmart's chief executive, is at the helm of a company facing an investigation into its accounting. 
In 1999, while Mr. Conaway was the chief financial officer of the drugstore chain CVS, the S.E.C. conducted a review of that retailer's accounting practices. In the end, the commission simply required CVS to shift $11.9 million in merger costs to 1997 from 1998, a resolution that many people on Wall Street took as a clean bill of health.
Kmart has also been through three chief financial officers in less than two years.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kmart's chief, Charles C. Conaway, at a meeting at headquarters in Troy, Mich., on Nov. 2. (Jeff Kowalsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (92%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (73%); ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); AUDITS (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (71%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); JUDGES (60%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; BANKRUPTCIES; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: KMART CORP (93%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (83%); SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%) KMART CORP (KM) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (93%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (93%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (90%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (83%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%) SIC5331 VARIETY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



776 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: CLOSE TIES IN TEXAS; 
Questions Arise on Law School Dean's Enron Duties

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
When the Enron Corporation made the last payment on a $250,000 pledge to the University of Texas Law School last February, the school's dean, William C. Powers Jr., added a handwritten note to his official response: "Thank you for all you do for us!"
 Nearly a year later, Mr. Powers sits on Enron's board and heads an internal investigation of the partnerships that hid the company's losses. Mr. Powers was made a director in late October and was asked to lead the internal investigation. His committee is cooperating with the Securities and Exchange Commission on its investigation. 
 Critics, who have long complained that Enron's money has brought it influence and a cozy relationship with government officials in Texas, Washington and beyond, are complaining that the appointment of Mr. Powers is more of the same. The Enron executive Mr. Powers wrote to, James V. Derrick Jr., was the company's general counsel, a major fund-raiser for the law school, and until recently, a trustee of the Law School Foundation, which supplements Mr. Powers's salary.
Mr. Powers argues that none of the relationships have affected his impartiality. Others say the relationships raise inevitable conflicts of interest that make it impossible for him to do the job properly.
"The exchange between Dean Powers and Derrick exemplifies the close relationship between Enron and U.T. law school," said Cristen D. Feldman, a lawyer with Texans for Public Justice, a group that monitors the ties between money and power in the state. "He's being paid by the very interests he's investigating."
"Despite various justifications and purported safeguards," Mr. Feldman said, "a reasonable analysis suggests Powers should consider resigning from one position or the other."
Mr. Powers noted that his appointment occurred at the end of October, after disclosures about questionable partnerships had forced Enron to write off about $1.2 billion in stockholder equity but before the company's collapse. Enron's board, he said, "wanted to get to the bottom of it, and they wanted to bring in somebody from the outside."
Mr. Powers said he was "happy and willing" to take on the board position and committee work because of the importance of Enron to the Texas economy and to Texans.
"It was, I think, a service to the company at the time, and a service, ultimately, to the public to find out what happened with these transactions," he said. "I do think that we are fulfilling that goal." 
The company, he said, has "cooperated fully" with the S.E.C. inquiry and has given his committee "full access to what we've needed."
Mr. Powers declined to comment on the accusations of illegal shredding by employees of Enron and of the company's auditors at Arthur Andersen. But he said, "We have reviewed many, many documents and feel we will be able to give a report on the nature of the transactions."
As to whether people would trust a report that was produced under these circumstances, Mr. Powers said, "Of course, the report will speak for itself, and people will have to evaluate it." He declined to say when the report would be released.
"We're working as fast as we can," he said. "We can't put a date on it."
A graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and Harvard Law School, Mr. Powers, 55, first came to the University of Texas in 1977. His students recall him as an uncommonly gifted teacher who breathes life into the arcane. He is a nationally recognized expert in the law of torts and product liability, and in the pitched conflict between trial lawyers and defense lawyers, is often identified with the defenders.
Mr. Powers said the contention that he was trapped in a web of conflicts was overblown. Mr. Derrick, he said, left the Law School Foundation board when Mr. Powers joined the Enron board specifically to avoid any conflict. He added that his salary supplement does not present a conflict because the amount that he receives is not controlled by the Law School Foundation. "It's a salary structure locked in place," he said. "The changes are raises that the university gives me."
Those who know Mr. Powers say that, whatever the appearances raised by the Enron appointment, he is a man with an unswerving moral compass. "He is one of the most honest people -- personally, morally and in public life -- of anyone I've met," said Mark G. Yudof, the president of the University of Minnesota and a former dean of the University of Texas Law School. "I just don't worry that he would be influenced by matters or interests external to doing the job that he's taken on. He won't be. I know that to a dead certainty."
But an expert in corporate governance suggested that even the most honest person should avoid the appearance of a conflict of interest when dealing with such an explosive issue. 
"The optics are not good," said Charles Elson, director of the Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. "The better part of wisdom would have been to say, 'No thanks.' " 
Had the Enron board needed an impartial outsider, Mr. Elson said, it should have approached someone from another state. "There are a lot of good law school deans out there," he said. 
As for Mr. Powers, Mr. Elson said: "He's got a great rep. Why open himself up to this?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: William C. Powers Jr., the dean of the University of Texas Law School, working at his desk in Austin. He denies that his relationships with Enron have affected his impartiality in leading an internal investigation. (Frank Curry for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); LAWYERS (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ETHICS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ACCOUNTING (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (69%) FINANCES; ETHICS; BOARDS OF DIRECTORS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (93%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%) ENRON CORP; UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (94%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: POWERS, WILLIAM C JR (DEAN); SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



777 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1537 words

HEADLINE: Enron for Dummies 

BYLINE:  By Bill Keller; E-mail: billkeller@nytimes.com

 BODY:
"I saw this week that President Bush is 'outraged' by the Enron scandal, and I know I should be too, but there's a lot I still don't get. For starters, what kind of company is Enron, exactly?
 Enron is a new-economy company, a thinking-outside-the-box, paradigm-shifting, market-making company. In fact, it ranked as the most innovative company in America four years in a row, as judged by envious corporate peers in the annual Fortune magazine poll. It is also, at this point in time, a bankrupt company. 
 I meant, what does Enron do? 
"Do?" Ah, a quaint old-economy question. You're probably one of those people who like the new no-cell-phone cars on Amtrak. Enron does a lot of things, but mainly it buys and sells energy.
What's so innovative about that?
When Enron got started, natural gas and electricity were produced, transmitted and sold by state-regulated monopolies. They were often plodding and inefficient. Enron used Wall Street magic to transform energy supplies into financial instruments that could be traded online like stocks and bonds. These contracts guaranteed customers a steady supply at a predictable price. This may be a good place to pause for an Enron Lesson. The company did stupid and venal things, but introducing the laws of supply and demand into the energy system was smart business and is, by and large, good for customers. One sad side effect of this scandal is that some good ideas may be discredited by association with Enron. 
So where did Enron go wrong?
As often happens with buccaneering entrepreneurs, it got a case of hubris. It figured if it could trade energy, it could trade anything, anywhere, in the new virtual marketplace. Newsprint. Television advertising time. Insurance risk. High-speed data transmission. All of these were converted into contracts -- called derivatives -- that were sold to investors. Enron poured billions into these trading ventures, and some failed. It turned out Enron was good at inventing businesses, but terrible at the tedious work of running them, judging by some appalling internal management audits discovered by The Times's Kurt Eichenwald. For a time, Enron swept its failures into creative hiding places, but ultimately the truth came out, confidence in the company collapsed and you now have a feeding frenzy.
How did it hide its mistakes?
To keep its mystique alive and its stock price growing, it set up partnerships where it could bury its losses, or generate imaginary revenues. Here's one of the more audacious examples, pieced together by The Wall Street Journal: Enron invested a bunch of money in a joint venture with Blockbuster to rent out movies online. The deal flopped eight months later. But in the meantime Enron had secretly set up a partnership with a Canadian bank. The bank essentially lent Enron $115 million in exchange for Enron's profits from the movie venture over its first 10 years. The Blockbuster deal never made a penny, but Enron counted the Canadian loan as a nice, fat profit.
Um, I'm not sure I follow that . . .
Neither did the Canadian bank, which now holds a lot of worthless Enron i.o.u.'s. Enron also seems to have baffled the accountants at Arthur Andersen, the bankers at J. P. Morgan, the Wall Street geniuses who touted Enron stock, and those C.E.O.'s who kept voting Kenneth Lay, now abruptly retired, the mastermind of the year. Also (with some exceptions) the business press. 
Did Enron break the rules?
Whether it broke the law is yet to be determined. Various prosecutors are undoubtedly reviewing the statutes on accounting fraud, insider trading and illegal destruction of documents, among other crimes. But rules were for sissies. These were invincible innovators, who sneered at rules. In that respect, they were the quintessential 90's company.
What's that supposed to mean?
The company embodied the get-obscenely-rich-quick cult that grew up around the intersection of digital technology, deregulation and globalization. It rode the zeitgeist of speed, hype, novelty and swagger. Petroleum was hopelessly uncool; derivatives were hot. Companies were advised to unload the baggage of hard assets, like factories or oilfields, which hold you back in the digital long jump, and concentrate on buzz and brand. Accountants who tried to impose the traditional discipline of the balance sheet were dismissed as "bean-counters," stuck in the old metrics. Wall Street looked to new metrics, new ways of measuring the intangible genius of innovation, and the most important metrics were the daily flickers of your stock price. Above all, everyone was looking for the killer app.
"Killer app?"
You are clueless. The killer application was the world-beating opportunity. (Mr. Lay called that Blockbuster deal "the killer app for the entertainment industry.") As often as not, the killer app was not a new product or service, but a beautiful loophole. In the new-economy best seller "Unleashing the Killer App," the first example is a guy who realizes that gas stations in Germany are exempt from the country's rigid early-closing laws for most stores. Voila! German gas stations become virtual shopping malls. By the way, in the 90's, expressions like "killer app" were widely believed to have an aphrodisiac effect. 
So it was about sex, after all?
Oh, absolutely. Wall Street was the new Hollywood, risk was the new testosterone, Lou Dobbs was Leonardo DiCaprio. Accountants called themselves consultants and bought Miata convertibles. And how cool was Enron? About two years ago a Fortune magazine writer likened utilities and energy companies to "a bunch of old fogies and their wives shuffling around halfheartedly to the not-so-stirring sounds of Guy Lombardo. . . . Suddenly young Elvis comes crashing through the skylight." In this metaphor, the guy in the skin-tight gold-lame suit was Enron. The writer left out the part where Elvis eats himself to death.
That reminds me, is it true what they say about the name "Enron"?
Mr. Lay wanted to call it Enteron, until they realized that was a biology term for the digestive tract. In hindsight, Enteron seems right for a company of such ungoverned appetites. Though I prefer my wife's name for the company: End Run.
Did Enron buy political influence?
Please. That's not the way things work in Washington. Enron bought access. Money just got it in the door to make its case. (The case it made probably went something like this: If the government does things Enron's way a lot of people will get very rich and they will be very, very grateful to the wise leaders who made it all possible.) If you're asking whether the Bush administration did favors for Enron, sure it did -- and so, by the way, did the Clinton administration, and both parties in Congress. Attention has focused on a number of fascinating loopholes lawmakers and regulators secretly customized for Enron. But -- and here's another Enron Lesson -- most of what Washington contributed to the glory of Enron it did in plain sight. Politicians demonized government regulation, and methodically dismantled the safeguards set up in previous downturns to protect little investors. They promoted the cult of stock-market speculation, even calling for Social Security funds to be fed to Wall Street. They cut taxes and all but stopped auditing tax returns. I'd say Enron's campaign donations, about $6 million over the past dozen years, paid off better than most of its other investments. 
Isn't that what free markets are all about -- getting government out of the way?
Yes and no. Free-marketers believe in reducing regulation. Enron believed in reducing regulation of Enron. Enron was perfectly capable of lobbying for the federal government to take over the electric power grid from the states -- hardly a free-market position, but one that would have made life easier for Enron. It lobbied for tighter regulation of air pollution, because it had figured a way to make money trading emission credits. And at the end Enron sure seemed to be fishing for a bailout. More important, a central tenet of capitalism is that people who run companies are subject to the discipline of the marketplace, as meted out by the shareholders. That can't work if the shareholders are lied to about the condition of the company. Another Enron Lesson: The louder someone yells "free markets!" the closer you want to look at his files (assuming they have not been shredded). 
But the administration didn't bail out Enron at the end, right?
No, the administration declined to climb aboard that sinking ship. A final Enron Lesson: When business and politics meet, Kenny Boy, it's not a relationship, it's a transaction.
What happens now?
A witch hunt, of course. In the end, with any luck, Congress will stop some of the money sloshing around the political system, and restore a bit of law and order to the wild frontier. But first, a few burnings at the stake. My wise friend Floyd Norris says there's a basic law of the market: When you get rich, it's because you're smart. When you get poor, it's because somebody cheated you. Just as Enron embodied the stock-market delirium on the way up, it will, now that the euphoria is over, be the scapegoat for all those smooth talkers who convinced us dummies that we could be rich.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); SCANDALS (89%); ACCOUNTING (87%); ETHICS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY MARKETS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BONDS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); ONLINE TRADING (71%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (71%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); MONOPOLIZATION (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (62%); JOINT VENTURES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); DATA TRANSMISSION (50%) BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (56%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (56%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (56%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: KELLER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



778 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: ENRON'S MANY STRANDS: COLLEGE REACTIONS; 
Business Students Fret Over Their Job Prospects

BYLINE:  By JOBERT ABUEVA 

 BODY:
If a visit to Columbia University is any gauge, business school students are less concerned about the damage the unfolding Enron scandal has inflicted on the accounting profession's reputation than the threat it poses to their job prospects.
 Not that those who specialize in accounting aren't a bit defensive these days. Jeannie Craig, a certified public accountant who began her first year in Columbia's M.B.A. program this week, painted the collapse of Enron and the destruction of documents relating to the energy trading company by Arthur Andersen as an aberration. 
 "Accounting is a noble profession," said Ms. Craig, who spent eight years in auditing, finance, and mergers and acquisitions at Ernst & Young in Baltimore. "I know several accountants who are very committed and take pride in the work. I'm glad I am an accountant. You know how a business is run." As for the Enron implosion, she said: "There is no perfect system. Flaws exist in every type of profession." 
The main reaction by students to the financial lapses at Enron and Arthur Andersen, though, was fretfulness at how the disclosures might affect their professional futures.
"It's another jab or punch, a source of frustration," said David Magstadt, a first-year student from Oklahoma who arrived early Tuesday morning to plug in his laptop at the school's Career Resource Center and is hoping to get a summer internship at a bank. Mr. Magstadt, who before enrolling in Columbia had been an information-technology consultant for Accenture, formerly Andersen Consulting, said he and many of his peers were primarily concerned about landing a job, summer or permanent.
At least the scandal has injected a little excitement into the academic routine. Manipulation of earnings was a theme emphasized in his last accounting class, he said, and "I can see how lively all classes are going to be here on out as everyone will have something so real and dynamic to draw from."
Even people with connections to Enron seemed more distressed about the scandal's impact on their job outlook than dismayed about any taint to the accounting profession's image. "My interviews have now deteriorated to, 'So, what happened?' " said Cristobal Perdomo, a second-year entrepreneurship and finance student who worked as Enron's legal counsel in Mexico City last summer. "It's very distracting."
Amanda Magliano, a second-year finance student who just returned to Columbia from a ski trip to Colorado with 150 classmates, said the debate over who was to blame for the Enron debacle was the hottest topic on the slopes.
"The arguments were intense, as we had an ex-Enron employee with us who had lost his entire 401(k)," Ms. Magliano said. Like most other students, though, the aspect of the Enron affair that most gripped her attention was how it might affect her employment future. "Because so much of what was happening was secretive, it doesn't give one any more insight on how to choose which company to work for," she said.
Barak Tulin, who was in the school cafeteria eating soup and thumbing through a recent issue of The Economist with a cover featuring the Enron logo in a bed of black, said he had nothing to worry about personally. He has already landed a job as associate finance manager with the Best Foods unit of the Dutch food and soap conglomerate Unilever, he said, adding, "It's good to be insulated."
Even so, he said, with fewer corporations recruiting on campus these days, the last thing his classmates need is another cloud on their career horizons. "Many fear they'll be out of a job within a year," he said. "A recession, the Sept. 11 disaster and now this. That's a lot of blows."
Mr. Tulin said Enron had interviewed students at Columbia for financial analyst positions as late as November, a visit that some students now joke about. Recently, he said, a friend alerted him to the chance to buy an "Enron/Columbia Business School Recruiting Team" T-shirt on eBay.
At other business schools, too, students are following the Enron-Andersen fiasco closely -- but showing greater worry about the fallout on their futures than about the broader repercussions.
"It certainly casts a dark shadow on the profession," said Ana Gabriela Souza, a junior at San Francisco State University and president of its Accounting Student Association. "Everyone knows a few people within a single company are responsible, but you can't help but think it affects our prospects as well."
Ms. Souza knew she wanted to be an accountant when she first arrived on campus from Rio de Janeiro and for now remains committed to her major. But she says she cannot help but feel uneasy with the barrage of news about Enron and its ripple effects on accountants' careers. Her boyfriend, though, made light of the brouhaha.
"We try to joke about it, even ribbing classmates who just joined Andersen," said the boyfriend, Dominic LaForgia, a recent San Francisco State graduate who began working as an auditor for Grant Thornton this month. "It certainly makes my orientation training lively. Ana and I have lots to talk about, and everyone now knows what I do for a living."
For all Mr. LaForgia's levity, Paul R. Brown, chairman of the accounting department at the Stern Graduate School of Business at New York University, says the Enron scandal has a lot of students there worried.
"I've received several e-mails from students in the throes of recruiting," he said. "Everyone wants to know how endemic the problem is and how they should deal with the issue in their interviews."
For other students, the Enron story is business as usual. Dan Lichtenberger, a senior at the University of Buffalo and president of his school's chapter of Beta Alpha Psi, the accounting honor society, for example, shrugs it off as old news. "It's become more common to have major corporations and their accounting firms under scrutiny by the S.E.C.," he said.
Accountants themselves were a little more worried about their image, Dr. Brown said. Many of the full-time professionals who take part in Stern's executive M.B.A. program, he said, "are incredulous of how basic principles have been violated and at the same time questioning whether what they do for a livelihood is indeed tainted."
Industry analysts say the Enron affair is a blow to the profession because it is likely to discourage young people from entering a career with an age-old reputation for dullness. "It's been historically perceived as a boring job, with traditional firms working new hires as much as 100-plus hours a week and turnover as high as 25 percent," said Arthur W. Bowman, editor of Bowman's Accounting Report in Atlanta. Only in the last three years, he said, have firms begun paying accountants above the rate of inflation.
"Young professionals are feverishly comparing notes and the Enron-Andersen debacle is one more reason why the decline could continue," he said. "It's doubtful you'll hear anyone saying they'd like to start their career with Andersen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeannie Craig, in Columbia's M.B.A. program, says the Enron-Andersen case is an aberration. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Barak Tulin has already landed a job as associate finance manager with a unit of Unilever. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); ACCOUNTING (91%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SCANDALS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); ETHICS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); SKIING (73%); LAWYERS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); US 401K PLANS (68%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (68%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (54%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LABOR; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); ACCENTURE PLC (82%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%) ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO; COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; ENRON CORP 

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (56%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: ABUEVA, JOBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (58%) MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



779 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 138 words

HEADLINE: The Enron Inquiry: Lessons From a Collapse 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Enron Hearings Open, Focusing on Destroyed Papers" (front page, Jan. 25):
 Why, in the midst of war and recession, does Enron so dominate the attention of Capitol Hill and the media? In part, it's old-fashioned politics and scandal. 
 But more than that, the magnitude of the Enron story reflects a realization, by official Washington, that we've become a nation of investors. More than half of all households have money in the stock market. 
Enron's collapse and the issues it raises -- disclosure, reliability of audited financial records, behavior of executives, analysts' independence, pension plan regulations -- are no longer the stuff of Wall Street, the rich or the financial press. They are Main Street concerns.

JOE BORG
President, North American
Securities Administrators Assn.
Washington, Jan. 25, 2002






LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ETHICS (87%); SCANDALS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (86%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); AUDITS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%) ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: BORG, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



780 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 161 words

HEADLINE: The Enron Inquiry: Lessons From a Collapse 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Enron Hearings Open, Focusing on Destroyed Papers" (front page, Jan. 25):
 The causes and consequences of Enron's decline are many, and they are complex. 
Some sort of regulatory response seems called for. However, whatever the benefits of more regulation of our capital markets, there is a cost to increased regulation, and that cost should be kept in mind. 
 We certainly should try to avoid more Enrons, but we must avoid burdening securities markets and capital formation too much in the process. Our economy depends on our robust capital markets.
Enron's fall may have rocked investor confidence and sadly wiped out the life savings of thousands of people, but excessive regulation of our securities markets has its own costs. Overreaction to Enron's collapse may do more harm in the long run than good.

TROY PAREDES
St. Louis, Jan. 25, 2002

The writer is associate professor of law in corporations and securities regulation, Washington University.







LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (87%); DEREGULATION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (87%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (86%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (74%); WRITERS (73%); ETHICS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%) BANKRUPTCIES; ETHICS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; ANDERSEN, ARTHUR, & CO 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: PAREDES, TROY (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (51%) MISSOURI, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



781 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW; 
Castro's Road, a Historical Pageant

BYLINE:  By RON WERTHEIMER 

 BODY:
Cuba is back in the news with the arrival of prisoners from Afghanistan at the Guantanamo Bay naval base. But that hasn't aroused in the American public any renewed interest in Cuba's maximum leader, Fidel Castro. This apathy isn't likely to be disturbed by "Fidel," the lumbering two-part biography on Showtime tomorrow and Monday nights.
 The history lesson is confusing and the drama minimal in this film, which follows Mr. Castro's progress from youthful rabble-rouser in 1949 to successful revolutionary in the 1950's to tired old dictator today. The filmmakers have squandered an opportunity to explain -- or at least speculate about -- a fascinating player on the world stage. Instead they provide a shallow historical pageant in which nothing is more colorful than the protagonist's olive-drab wardrobe. 
 The production rests uneasily on the broad shoulders of Victor Huggo Martin, who has the title role and is on screen nearly every minute. Mr. Martin is a Mexican actor making his English-language debut. He sounds as if he had learned his lines phonetically. He delivers every speech, no matter how intimate, at full oratorical tilt. Of course that could have been a matter of artistic choice by Mr. Martin or the director, David Attwood.
Mr. Martin does resemble Mr. Castro, and great care is expended to give just the right wispy quality to that trademark beard once he grows it, in the second installment. Still, you never feel the magnetism that made men follow him into battle, women follow him into bed and a nation follow him into privation. This Fidel comes across as nothing but a stubborn jerk.
The film, written by Stephen Tolkin with a nod to two Castro biographies, is most interesting in its opening passage, about the young Fidel. He's an idealistic lawyer who's outraged by the disrespectful behavior of United States sailors in Havana.
Fidel stirs up the crowd that marches on the United States embassy. Rocks fly. Cuban police officers use clubs and water hoses on the demonstrators, who include an intriguing young woman named Mirta (Patricia Velasquez). Soon Fidel is grinning at her at a party, where she asks, "Are you a communist?" He replies, "Is that because I don't dance?"
Two years later they're married and have a son. Fidel is active in efforts to supplant Cuba's American-supported government. His party is closing in on an election victory when Fulgencio Batista (Tony Plana) declares military rule. Fidel is soon on the run, dreaming of a revolution. "How else do we change things?" he asks.
Meeting with a handful of other rebels, Fidel declares, "Everyone has to give up his own private dreams and desires." Easier said then done. He's soon making love to a fellow revolutionary, a rich doctor's wife, Naty Revuelta, played by Margarita d'Francisco with the only suggestion of real emotion in this film.
Fidel leads a small band, including his brother, Raul (Maurice Compte), against an army garrison. The raid fails. Many of Fidel's men are killed. He and Raul are jailed. Naty has Fidel's daughter. Mirta divorces him and moves to the United States. Fidel is released and goes to Mexico, where he enlists Che Guevara (Gael Garcia Bernal) to the cause.
Back in Cuba with a ragtag band, Fidel begins to attract more supporters while his new right-hand woman, Celia Sanchez (Cecilia Suarez), tends his image with the press and public. Fidel and Celia are rarely apart, although the film only hints at the depth of their relationship. In fact, the film only hints at any human dimension. 
The rest of the story flies by in a blur: victory for the rebels, the Bay of Pigs, the missile crisis, the stagnation of the Cuban economy. Guevara's death makes Fidel register a little sadness. By the time Celia dies, he's too insulated even for that.
In the end Fidel is left alone. He has lost the attention of the world, the devotion of his people and no doubt his television audience, too.

FIDEL

Showtime, Sunday night at 8

Written by Stephen Tolkin; based on the books "Guerrilla Prince" by Georgie Anne Geyer and "Fidel Castro" by Robert E. Quirk; directed by David Attwood; director of photography, Checco Varese; production designed by Brigitte Broch; edited by Milton Moses Ginsberg; costumes designed by Mayes Rubeo; music by John Altman; production executive, David Anderson; executive producer, David V. Picker; produced by Jose Ludlow and Kevin Cooper; co-producer, Guy Hibbert.

WITH: Victor Huggo Martin (Fidel Castro), Gael Garcia Bernal (Che Guevara), Patricia Velasquez (Mirta), Cecilia Suarez (Celia Sanchez), Maurice Compte (Raul Castro), Margarita d'Francisco (Naty Revuelta), Enrique Arce (Rafael) Jose Maria Yazpik (Camilo Cienfuegos), Manuel Sevilla (Abel Santamaria), Alejandra Gollas (Haydee Santamaria), Ernesto Godoy (Huber Matos), Guillermo Diaz (Universo Sanchez) and Tony Plana (General Batista).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor Huggo Martin as Fidel Castro. (Daniel Daza/Showtime) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NAVIES (89%); MILITARY BASES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); FILM (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); ARMED FORCES (73%); WOMEN (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (50%) TELEVISION; REVIEWS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (91%) WERTHEIMER, RON; MARTIN, VICTOR HUGGO 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

TITLE: FIDEL (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



782 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Blue-Chip Shares Increase, but Technology Issues Fall

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors gave blue-chip stocks another comfortable lift yesterday but pushed technology shares slightly lower as they tried to deal with conflicting signals.
 Working in Wall Street's favor were comments Thursday by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, who said the recession could soon be over. But with many companies still unable to confirm a pickup in business, the market's gains were limited and, in many cases, were more attributable to bargain-hunting than a shift in investor sentiment. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 44.01 points, or 0.5 percent, at 9,840.08. The Dow pulled out a three-session winning streak, advancing 65.11 points Thursday and gaining 17.16 points Wednesday. 
The broader market was narrowly divided. The Nasdaq composite index slipped 4.88 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,937.70, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index inched up 1.13 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,133.28.
"The only way the market can get going is if earnings accelerate, and don't just sit around at the bottom," said Gary Kaltbaum, market technician for Investors' Edge Partners in Orlando, Fla. "If companies say, 'things aren't getting any worse,' all that does is bump up stocks a bit. In order to get things going, you have to have growth again, and we just don't have that yet."
Blue-chip shares enjoyed widespread gains yesterday, which analysts attributed largely to cheaper prices and somewhat to comments from Mr. Greenspan. Procter & Gamble rose $1.36, to $79.14; Honeywell climbed $1.10, to $32.70; and Caterpillar gained $1, to $50.10.
In technology trading, PMC-Sierra rose $2.29, to $24.15, after reporting a fourth-quarter loss of 15 cents a share, beating estimates by a penny.
But disappointing reports and outlooks held back the technology sector. The fiber optic maker JDS Uniphase fell 73 cents, to $7.16, on a wider-than-expected loss.
The computer maker Gateway slid nearly 18 percent, down $1.14 at $5.22, after announcing on Thursday that it would cut 2,250 jobs and close 19 stores and several offices as it deals with sluggish sales and declining market share.
Stocks have largely fallen this month amid a lack of positive news from companies. Analysts said the sell-off was not surprising given how strongly investors snapped up shares late last year based on hopes of a rebound in profits rather than evidence of growth. 
"The fourth-quarter rally was an anticipatory rally that comes as you believe the worst is over; some pullback from that was expected," said Ronald J. Hill, investment strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman & Company. "When earnings start to come through in earnest, there will be a second, more fundamental leg up. We're kind of in a hiatus right now." --------------------

Treasury Prices Fall
 By Bloomberg News
Treasury bond prices fell yesterday, completing their biggest weekly loss since early December, as investors anticipated that the Federal Reserve might start raising interest rates as soon as the second quarter. 
Two economists at firms that trade with the Fed, known as primary dealers, said the central bank would start increasing rates as soon as April after the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said the economy's recovery might quicken. Twenty-two of the 24 primary dealers said the Fed would leave rates unchanged next week, a shift from last week when three forecast no change. 
"We're seeing a natural bottoming of the interest rate cycle," said Vic Thompson, who oversees $260 billion at State Street Global Advisors in Boston and expects that the Fed may raise rates in the second half of the year. "The Treasury market is going to anticipate rate increases by the Fed." 
The benchmark 10-year note fell 14/32 , to a price of 99 15/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, rose to 5.07 percent from 5.01 percent on Thursday. The 30-year bond declined 10/32 , to a price of 98 23/32 . Its yield rose to 5.46 percent from 5.44 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MARKET SHARE (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (68%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES GLOBAL INDEXES; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: BROWN BROTHERS HARRIMAN & CO (60%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (54%); JDS UNIPHASE CORP (52%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (54%); PG (NYSE) (54%); JDU (TSX) (52%); JDSU (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (60%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



783 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: A Profitable AmazonLooks to Do an Encore 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
So Amazon.com Inc. actually turned a profit. Skeptics thought it never would and even fans assumed that the company would take another couple of years before its ink ran black.
 Has Amazon learned enough from its achievement so far to ensure its success? 
 Talk to Jeffrey P. Bezos, the company's founder and chief executive, and he will speak of myriad ways that Amazon has refined its strategy and tactics over the last year as it caught up with its frantic expansion during its first six years. But what is most striking is how, unlike nearly every other Internet company, Amazon is not pulling back from the audacious combination of ambition and idealism that drove his initial vision. 
Amazon still wants to sell most anything to most anyone. And most significantly, it has recommitted itself to doing so at even greater discounts.
"There are two kinds of companies," Mr. Bezos says at nearly every public forum these days, "those that work to raise prices and those that work to lower them." Amazon, he insists, is in the latter category.
If Mr. Bezos is as successful as he hopes, that would put Amazon in a rare category of extremely valuable companies like Wal-Mart and Dell Computer. But the ranks of companies that try and fail at a discounting strategy are far larger.
It should be a shot across Amazon's bow that the day this week it announced its first profit, Kmart filed for bankruptcy protection after failing to keep up with Wal-Mart's discounts.
Moreover, few other mail-order retailers -- and that's essentially what Amazon is -- use a low-price strategy. The inescapable economics of mail order are that a company needs to have enough gross profit dollars -- the price minus the cost of goods -- per order to cover the costs of taking orders, shipping and service. That makes it far more lucrative to offer a small selection of high-margin goods than to offer everything at deep discounts.
Mr. Bezos points to the company's recent financial performance and sees two trends that lend support for his plan.
First, Amazon's biggest business -- selling books, music and videos in the United States -- which had started to decline in the third quarter of 2001, bounced back sharply after steep price cuts. Amazon now discounts nearly all books over $20 by 30 percent. Amazon once offered discounts of as much as 50 percent on best sellers, and 20 percent discounts on other books. Early last year, the company started to raise book prices -- with 5 percent to 10 percent discounts more common -- only to reverse the increases as sales fell.
Second, the company has tried to become more efficient, especially at its five warehouses. Amazon's fulfillment costs -- which include the warehouses, customer service and credit card fees -- fell from 13.5 percent of sales in the fourth quarter of 2000 to 9.8 percent a year later.
Mr. Bezos concludes that the way that Amazon will grow from barely break even to strongly profitable is by further cost-cutting used to finance more discounts, which will drive even more sales.
"We looked at how to spend the money we are saving on expenses," he said. "We know the return we get on a dollar of advertising, and we decided we would get a better return investing in lower prices."
It is certainly true that growth benefits a centralized company like Amazon even more than one with thousands of stores like Wal-Mart. The incremental cost of shipping one more order for Amazon is far less than the average cost of its fixed investments in software and warehouses.
But what has worked well for Amazon so far has mainly been in the book business. Yet, the opportunities Amazon found in books may be hard to repeat in other areas.
For one, in the book business, few other retailers have offered discounts, other than for best sellers. And there is good reason Amazon can afford to cut book prices. The average book may sit on the shelf of a store for six months or a year before it is bought. The cost of this inventory in a chain of hundreds of stores is huge. Amazon can keep just one or two copies in its warehouse -- and still make the title available to the whole country -- and restock as quickly as customers buy books.
There are lots of reasons Amazon will find it difficult to repeat its success in other areas, especially in the electronics business, which Amazon has said will be its next big growth area. Sales growth in electronics has stagnated this year. Sales of electronics, tools and kitchen products were up only 5 percent in the most recent quarter from a year earlier.
Moreover, the electronics business has much lower margins and more price competition, so there is much less room for discounting.
Manufacturers are also much more protective of their selling prices than with books, and Amazon's off-again-on-again propensity to discount has made the market leader, Sony, and others refuse to make Amazon an authorized dealer.
"When you look at what Jeff has done with Amazon, it's a thing of beauty," said Greg Drew, the chief executive of 800.com, an online electronics store. "But I don't think he's going to be successful discounting electronics because the margins are already tight on good days."
Now Amazon puts less emphasis on expanding its own electronics sales and is counting for growth on deals to carry merchandise offered by established companies, as it does for Toys "R" Us, Target and Circuit City.
But the discounting strategy is even more problematic here. These companies have set pricing strategies and have no interest in undercutting their existing stores with cheaper online sales.
It is telling, for example, that neither Target nor Toys "R" Us agreed to participate in Amazon's newest discounting initiative -- offering free shipping for orders over $99.
Toys "R" Us, a spokeswoman says, sees free shipping as a tactical promotion to use sometimes. But it is hardly necessary year round.
And all that has analysts wondering what Amazon can do for an encore. Sure Amazon received a boost yesterday after Moody's Investors Service raised the company's ratings, pushing up its stock and bonds. Moody's raised the Seattle-based Amazon's long-term ratings to B3 from Caa1. That is five grades from the bottom of Moody's 11-level junk ratings scale. Shares of Amazon rose 43 cents yesterday, to $14.44.
But the analysts still ask: If it is only discounts that motivate consumers to buy online, but if discounts are hard to offer in areas other than books, what will provide enough growth to justify the company's $5 billion market value?
"It's hard to be the low-cost retailer," said Lauren Levitan, an analyst with Robertson Stephens. "You have to execute flawlessly on a very consistent basis. Most people who try a low-price strategy lose."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amazon took two specific steps last year as part of its effort to turn a profit. First, it imposed deep cuts on book prices. At the same time, the company moved to become more efficient, especially at its five warehouses. (Marilyn Newton for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (87%); BOOKSTORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TRENDS (76%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (76%); INTERNET & WWW (75%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (74%); PRICE CUTTING (73%); PRODUCT PRICING (72%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); RETAILERS (64%); BOOK SALES (64%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%); EXECUTIVES (57%) COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: AMAZON.COM INC (96%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMAZON.COM INC 

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (96%); WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (96%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (96%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (90%) BEZOS, JEFFREY P; HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



784 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT; 
In Preview of State of the Union Message, Bush Calls for More Money for Border Patrols

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Me., Jan. 25 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he would propose spending $11 billion next year to protect the United States' land, sea and air borders from terrorist attacks.
 The president's proposal, an increase of more than $2 billion from the current budget for border security, is to pay for more customs inspectors, more border patrol agents, technology that will more quickly inspect shipments into the United States and a new system that will track the arrival and departure of people who are not American citizens. 
 "None of us ever dreamt that we'd have a two-front war to fight, one overseas and one at home, but we do," he said in a speech at Southern Maine Technical College here.
Mr. Bush added that every morning he looked at a threat assessment, an overview of the present dangers facing the United States. "The enemy still wants to hit us," he said. "And therefore this nation must do everything in our power to prevent it." 
Although Mr. Bush did not mention it in his remarks, the Portland airport was the departure point for Mohamed Atta and Abdulaziz Alomari, two of the hijackers in the World Trade Center attacks. On the morning of Sept. 11, Mr. Atta and Mr. Alomari flew from Portland to Logan Airport in Boston and then boarded an American Airlines jet that the authorities believe Mr. Atta later flew into the north tower of the trade center.
"The biggest chore I have, my biggest job, is to make sure our homeland is secure," Mr. Bush told the crowd.
He added that his goal was to create seamless borders with Canada and Mexico that would keep out terrorists, drugs and disease but more easily let legitimate goods in. 
Mr. Bush also said the Immigration and Naturalization Service would crack down on visitors who had overstayed their visas. 
"The I.N.S. estimates that 40 percent of the people who are here illegally came because of the generosity of America, were given a period of time in which they could stay, and then they didn't leave," he said. "And one of the things we want to make sure of is we find the 40 percent to make sure they're not part of some Al Qaeda network that wants to hit the United States. And so we're looking, we're listening, we're following every single lead."
Such a crackdown might not have affected the Sept. 11 hijackers, most of whom were in the country legally. 
Mr. Bush's speech was the fourth this week leading up to his State of the Union address next Tuesday night, and like the others it served as both preview and practice session for his themes of reviving the economy, winning the war against terrorism and protecting the United States from attack.
He spoke on Tuesday in West Virginia about creating jobs and on Wednesday and Thursday in Washington about increasing the Pentagon and domestic security budgets. 
The president spent part of his trip here touring the Coast Guard cutter Tahoma, which was the command vessel in New York Harbor on Sept. 11. "They stayed there for 40 days, on alert 24 hours a day, making sure that not only the traffic flowed smoothly, but people were safe," he said of the cutter's crew.
The president also appealed to a hometown crowd throughout his remarks, recalling his summers spent at his parents' vacation home in Kennebunkport, Me.
"It's nice to be back in -- I guess my second home," said Mr. Bush, who calls his real home his Crawford, Tex., ranch. 
Mr. Bush also joked about his father, the 41st president, as "41," and the kind of coastal security he has as president.
"Now, you probably think I've had a sweet spot in my heart for the Coast Guard because when I spend the night at 41's house down the coast, I wake up and see the cutter sitting out there," Mr. Bush said to laughter.
This morning, Mr. Bush left the White House carrying a copy of "Bias," a book by Bernard Goldberg that describes a liberal bias by the news media. Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, said that he did not know who had given the book to Mr. Bush, but that many staff members at the White House were reading it.
Mr. Fleischer said that Mr. Bush had just begun the book and that he did not know his reaction.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush with the crew of the Coast Guard cutter Tahoma yesterday in Portland, Me. He proposed spending $11 billion for border security, an increase of more than $2 billion from the current fiscal year. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BORDER CONTROL (91%); IMMIGRATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AL-QAEDA (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); AIRLINES (71%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ;IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, ME, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MAINE, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



785 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: New Chief Of Parks Is Familiar With Turf 

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg yesterday named Adrian Benepe, a veteran of serving the city's green spaces, to succeed Henry J. Stern as commissioner of the Parks and Recreation Department.
 In making the announcement, Mr. Bloomberg, who said that he had been accosted recently on the subway by a parks employee who demanded "a commissioner now," praised Mr. Stern for improving the city's parks over the past eight years. But, he added, "The bottom line is it's the people that he put in place who actually have done the work in thinking about it." 
 The position proved a difficult one to fill, with some candidates withdrawing from consideration, according to administration officials and members of the transition team, because inevitable cuts to the department's budget will be visible to residents in the condition of their parks.
In addition, Mr. Benepe, 44, is taking over a department that has recently experienced setbacks, including a class action suit charging racial bias in hiring and promotion practices and the impending loss of thousands of former welfare recipients whose work for the department was subsidized by a federal program.
For his part, Mr. Bloomberg said that the program under which the workers were hired was always temporary. "Nobody's being laid off in the sense that they were expected, or had a reason to expect, a permanent job out of it," he said, adding that his administration was 'trying to find other federal programs."
Mr. Benepe said that staffing at the department was currently in "great shape," although it was unclear what trends would develop with workfare or "other alternative work forces."
He added that the parks were in good shape, too, although some advocates have argued that the city's smaller parks, especially those in poor neighborhoods, have not benefited from the same kind of improvements and upkeep as have Central and Bryant Parks.
"There's really one standard for parks, and all parks should be safe and clean and decent, and I think we've pretty well achieved that," Mr. Benepe said, although he later allowed, "That doesn't mean there aren't some parks that aren't terrible, that still need work."
Although Mr. Benepe said that he could not say much about the department's hiring practices because there is a pending lawsuit over them, he added that as a manager he had assembled an ethnically diverse staff. "I believe in promoting and nurturing and trying to get a very diverse group, and that's just been my career and I expect that will continue as Parks Commissioner," he said. He also said that problems with employee misconduct had been corrected.
Mr. Benepe, a registered Democrat who was born and raised in Manhattan, first worked in the department at 15, collecting trash and mopping locker rooms, he said. His career started in earnest after college when he joined the agency's urban park ranger program. After holding a number of different positions at the agency as well as jobs at the Municipal Art Society and the New York Botanical Garden, he became the Manhattan borough commissioner for the department in 1996.
In addition to announcing Mr. Benepe's appointment yesterday, Mr. Bloomberg took a whirlwind tour of the Hilton Hotel in Midtown, making brief remarks at three luncheons to three different groups on the hotel's third floor. He began at a lunch for the United States Conference of Mayors, where he appeared to once again lay the groundwork for asking for further financial aid for the city from the federal government. He thanked cities around the country for their support of New York after Sept. 11, singling out several in particular, including Akron, Ohio, which bought the city a fire truck, and Augusta, Ga., which donated money.
"Traditionally, New York contributes $15 billion more to the federal government than we get back," he said. "The economic fate of New York City and the nation are inextricably linked.
"There cannot be nationwide prosperity if the financial institutions in New York City are allowed to fade in the aftermath of Sept. 11," he added, saying that he appreciated support for New York's receiving "the aid package promised by the federal government."
The mayor also gave brief remarks to alumni from St. John's University School of Law and to the New York State District Attorneys.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Adrian Benepe, 44, named parks commissioner yesterday, started working for the Parks and Recreation Department when he was 15. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); LAYOFFS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (75%); TRENDS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); MISCONDUCT (72%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (72%); CLASS ACTIONS (72%); LITIGATION (67%) PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) CARDWELL, DIANE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); BENEPE, ADRIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



786 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 107 words

HEADLINE: Compaq Chief Optimistic 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Compaq Computer said yesterday that it expected its earnings and revenue this year to exceed Wall Street's forecasts.
 The company's chief executive, Michael D. Capellas, told financial analysts at a meeting in New York that he expected an economic recovery in the second half of the year and that Compaq's personal computer business, which lost the No. 1 slot last year to Dell Computer, was set for a return to profits. 
 Compaq cited expected demand for data storage by corporations, demand for server computers based on Intel's microchips and increased demand for security products and managed services as driving the change in its outlook. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (88%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); EXECUTIVES (88%); COMPUTER CHIPS (86%); NETWORK SERVERS (86%) FINANCES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COMPAQ COMPUTER CORP 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (89%) CAPELLAS, MICHAEL D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



787 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 564 words

HEADLINE: State of the Union, Test of the President 

BYLINE:  By Michael Waldman; Michael Waldman, former chief speechwriter for President Bill Clinton, is a lecturer in public policy at Harvard's Kennedy School and the author of "POTUS Speaks."

 BODY:
Expectations are high for President Bush's State of the Union address Tuesday. In earlier speeches, Mr. Bush was able to leap over ankle-high expectations, but not this time. He will stride to the rostrum a popular president leading a nation united in support of a necessary, just war. But he faces a complex test of presidential leadership: to maintain support for the war while presenting a politically viable plan for combating the recession at home. 
 Other presidents, of course, have given the annual report in times of war and economic turmoil. Franklin Roosevelt's speeches record his turn from Dr. New Deal to Dr. Win-the-War. Lyndon Johnson, in his "guns and butter" address in 1966, insisted, "I believe that we can continue the Great Society while we fight in Vietnam." But his unwillingness to raise taxes to pay for the war helped spur the economic nightmares of the 1970's. 
 No doubt history's most vivid lesson for President Bush comes from his father's presidency. After the American victory in the Persian Gulf war, President George H. W. Bush seemed to ignore a national recession. Nearly a year later, in the 1992 message, he vowed, "We can bring the same courage and sense of common purpose to the economy that we brought to Desert Storm," but it was too late.
George W. Bush can't meet the current challenge with stirring rhetoric alone. Above all, he will have to reach farther, using the momentum of the war against terror to bolster his leadership in other areas.
Thus far, he has been a strong and often inspired wartime president. But simply ladling out more inspiration would be a missed opportunity. The president is not just the commander in chief; he is the information officer in chief. Americans have some basic questions. Where does the war go now? Troops have been sent to the Philippines: why there? What about Iraq? As the antiterror war moves to a new phase, Americans will want a frank discussion of these issues.
Today's domestic challenge is harder. When I was writing Bill Clinton's State of the Union addresses, the fun part was finding ways to announce the year's declining budget deficit -- and later, budget surplus. Now those days of surpluses seem a misty memory. Last year, Mr. Bush pushed for a large tax cut based on projected surpluses; now those surpluses are vanishing. What a difference a year makes.
I can picture Mr. Bush's speech writers searching for a more elegant, eloquent way to say further tax cuts will not be postponed than "over my dead body," the words Mr. Bush recently used. A pugnacious approach might win quick applause from Republicans, but it would endanger the harmony Mr. Bush has summoned for his handling of the war. Better to seek common ground with Democrats on the economy.
He also has an opportunity to address other concerns in a way that unifies, rather than divides. A good candidate for bipartisan action is campaign finance reform, an issue that may become more important to voters given the Enron scandal. The war on terrorism creates new interest in national service; Senators John McCain and Evan Bayh have a proposal to expand it that could take off if Mr. Bush endorsed it.
Much has changed since Sept. 11. It would be a mistake if the president presents a domestic agenda that seems frozen in time. Mr. Bush's speech can widen our horizons, if, by his words, he shows that he has widened his own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ANNUAL REPORTS (75%); MISSING PERSONS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX INCREASES (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); HIJACKING (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TAX RELIEF (68%); ARMED FORCES (62%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); WRITERS (60%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WALDMAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (85%) NEW YORK, USA (85%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); VIET NAM (76%); GULF STATES (55%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



788 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 26, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: The Tax-Cut Wars Continue 

 BODY:
The Democrats' recurring nightmare about President Bush's State of the Union Message next Tuesday is that he will take time out from basking in all the applause to blame Democrats for obstructing legislation to cut taxes and revive the economy. Partly to neutralize this threat, partly to offer a valid alternative, Tom Daschle, the Senate majority leader, tried this week to win approval for a Democratic bill consisting of carefully targeted tax cuts and unemployment benefits that contrast sharply with the huge giveaways in the Republican bill.
 The G.O.P. bill, approved by the House last year, has been blocked for lack of votes in the Senate. It channels most of its tax breaks to the rich and to big corporations, including $250 million worth of tax breaks to Enron. Obstruction is precisely the fate it deserves. 
 Mr. Daschle proposes to break the impasse with a stripped-down version of his own. It consists of four proposals both sides can agree on. These are a tax rebate for lower-income families that did not get a tax cut in the legislation enacted last year; an expanded tax credit for depreciation that would encourage investment, especially by small businesses; an extension of benefits for the unemployed, which are due to expire; and aid to the states to make up for the lost tax revenues they would face because of the depreciation tax changes.
The Republicans have responded with a series of mischievous amendments aimed not so much at improving the bill as making sure that it cannot pass before Mr. Bush gets on his feet Tuesday night. If something did pass, Mr. Bush's speechwriters might have to redraft his State of the Union -- the part where he may turn to Mr. Daschle and, explicitly or implicitly, accuse him of obstructing efforts to help the economy.
It is a shame that all sides have to play such games. But the games would end -- and the economy would benefit -- if Mr. Bush and the Republican leadership accepted the Daschle alternative as a legitimate effort to get needed help to the unemployed and institute some simple, fair stimulus proposals on which everyone already agrees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); DEPRECIATION (72%); FAMILY (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); TOM DASCHLE (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); DASCHLE, TOM (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2002 



789 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: He Needs His Space 

BYLINE:  By Clyde Haberman; Clyde Haberman writes the NYC column for The Times.

 BODY:
 TEPPER ISN'T GOING OUT
By Calvin Trillin.
213 pp. New York:
Random House. $22.95.
 FIRST, you have to understand the depth of the relationship between New Yorkers and their parking spaces. Many years ago, in an act of supreme madness, I bought a car. To own a car in Manhattan, it isn't essential that you be crazy. But it helps. Either that, or you need to be rich enough to afford monthly garage fees greater than Afghanistan's gross domestic product, or else pay the parking fines and towing charges that you will incur as surely as God made alternate-side-of-the-street regulations. After seven years of this self-inflicted torture, I gave up and sold the car. I might have slipped the guy a few bucks to take it off my hands. The details are now a blur, except for the enormous feeling of liberation.
Yet even after 23 years, an available parking spot close to my apartment building is enough to make me want to run out to buy something on four wheels to fill the space. The urge is almost irresistible. A perfect parking space, one where you can sit for days without worrying about being ticketed, is for Manhattanites what the white whale was for Ahab, what the Golden Fleece was for Jason, what the mountaintop was for Sisyphus.
Calvin Trillin understands, or he could not have written "Tepper Isn't Going Out," which is billed as a work of fiction, though sometimes one has to wonder. Perfectly believable as fact is the tale of a man who, in his bachelor days, rated women on the basis of whether it was worth giving up a terrific parking space to drive them around on dates. When he moved his car from a particularly desirable spot, he knew "she was the girl he was going to marry." In New York, a story like that actually makes sense.
This novel's hero, if that's the right word, is Murray Tepper, a not-so-young partner in a small company that supplies mail-order lists to businesses trying to market new products. Compiling these lists gives Tepper clues to what makes people tick. Those with charge accounts at high-end glassware stores, for example, are good targets for someone selling rare wine. There is a link, apparently, between left-wing politics and gourmet cooking, between cosmetics for men and sports car ownership. Tepper is a man of few surprises. But he knows his lists.
And he knows his Manhattan parking spots. He can tell you that the best area to find a parking place good for an entire evening is in the East 70's near Central Park, or that a great Sunday morning spot on the Lower East Side is in front of Russ & Daughters, the appetizing store on Houston Street (pronounced HOWS-ton and not the funny way they say it in Texas). In New York, this knowledge qualifies as a survival skill.
In his time, Tepper grappled with the city's frustrating alternate-side rules, which require residents to move their cars from one side of the street to the other several times a week so that street sweepers can get through. He no longer endures this grueling ritual. He has a spot in a parking garage. Yet something impels him to cruise the streets in the evening looking for a space where he can sit and read The New York Post, which he still thinks of as an afternoon newspaper even though it stopped being that long ago, after the men with Australian accents took over.
These days, Tepper prefers metered parking. He plunks quarters into the meter and sits there reading his paper until the time expires. It seems an innocent pastime. It is certainly legal. When anyone asks what he's doing, Tepper says, simply enough, that he is reading the paper. But the sight of him just sitting there makes other drivers crazy. They demand, often crudely, that he leave and make room for them. But Tepper isn't going out.
His behavior comes to the attention of a writer for an alternative newspaper, and in the hyperthyroidic way of the New York news media, Tepper is turned into a hero, someone who the editorialists believe has found inner truth through parking. New Yorkers line up on the sidewalk to get a few minutes with him in the car to talk about their problems. In fact, Tepper has little to say. Often he does nothing more than nod and tell them innocuous things like, "There's always something." He is about as profound as the enigmatic Chauncey Gardiner in "Being There." Yet people go away feeling they see their lives more clearly. "Maybe we can all learn something from Murray Tepper," one editorial says. "Maybe everything isn't complicated after all."
Then one day the crowd outside his car gets caught up in a melee. That does it for the authoritarian Mayor Frank Ducavelli, who wishes that the tabloid headline writers would shorten his name to "the Duke" instead of "Il Duce," as they usually prefer. The mayor decides that Tepper is an agent of disorder, and Ducavelli will not tolerate anything that smacks of disorder. Which means just about everything.
His own pollster, while convinced the mayor has done a good job, has to admit: "Oh, yes, he's a little paranoid. And a little vindictive. And egotistical. And self-righteous. And stubborn." In short, he is an awful lot like Rudolph W. Giuliani, at least the Giuliani familiar to his fellow citizens before they practically canonized him for his post-Sept. 11 performance. In his endless pursuit of an orderly city, Ducavelli declares a crackdown on people who step into the street to hail a cab instead of staying on the curb. Come to think of it, it's surprising that Giuliani never came up with that idea.
The heart of the story is the collision between Tepper and City Hall, though it would probably be best not to say who prevails, except to note that Tepper proves himself to be, in New York parlance, no schlepper.
Is this a profound novel? Well, that may depend on how indispensable you consider the information that a New Yorker will grip the door handle of a taxi to claim possession even while the previous passenger is paying. But it is surely an entertaining read. And if you manage to find a nice parking space, perhaps on Houston Street, you can sit behind the wheel, enjoy Tepper's odyssey and finish with 10 minutes still left on the meter.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PARKING OFFENSES (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); COSMETICS (70%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (55%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (57%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



790 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: The Real Culture Wars 

BYLINE:  By Paul Kennedy; Paul Kennedy is a professor of history at Yale University and the author or editor of 15 books, including "The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers."

 BODY:
 WHAT WENT WRONG?
Western Impact and Middle Eastern Response.
By Bernard Lewis.
Illustrated. 180 pp. New York:
Oxford University Press. $23.
 In early 1979 the authoritarian and much-disliked regime of the Shah of Iran collapsed, to the rejoicing of left-wing groups everywhere in the West. Quite by chance, I was to dine in those same days in Princeton with the renowned historians Fritz Stern and John Elliott, plus one other scholar. The fourth dining partner arrived late, apologetic and a little rueful. He had given a radio interview earlier in the day, warning that the shah's overthrow by Muslim clerics would lead not to social improvement and democracy but to theocracy, intolerance and clerically controlled mayhem. 
This was not a popular opinion. A fellow professor, distinguished in the field of international law but knowing little of Iran, deplored such conservatism and pessimism. And many Princeton students were outraged, since they were sure that the Iranian people, freed from the shah's yoke, would join the modern, anticapitalist, freethinking world. The gloomy, skeptical scholar was surely mistaken, and should feel ashamed of himself. No wonder he was a little rueful.
The fourth dining partner that evening was the distinguished historian of the Islamic, Arabic and Middle Eastern worlds Bernard Lewis, for many years the Cleveland E. Dodge professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princeton. As it happened, the radical, protesting students were quite wrong, and the individual and maligned scholar was completely right. He actually knew what he was talking about, because he had been studying the Muslim world -- its history, literature, culture -- for over 30 years. He had some claim to offer an opinion that deserved respect. There is a lesson here. 
The same authority is still going strong. A couple of years ago he published a wonderful collection of occasional pieces, named (appropriately enough) "A Middle East Mosaic," which offered numerous vignettes of a region both fascinating and disturbing. Now he has produced what may be his most significant work for a contemporary audience. "What Went Wrong?" is a concise study of the Muslim world's responses to the West and of its own long, sad decline. 
It was completed, one must emphasize, some time before Sept. 11. Scholars of international and Middle Eastern affairs like Lewis did not need Osama bin Laden's attacks, the subsequent war against the Taliban and revelations of our shaky, ambivalent friendships with Pakistan or Saudi Arabia and other Arab states to recognize that things were out of joint between the West and much of the Muslim world. What the events of the past few months did was to call this enormous problem to the attention of a far wider audience. 
On the whole, the varied societies of our planet are marching, however briskly or reluctantly, in lock step with an America of laissez-faire economics, cultural pluralism and political democracy. This was and is a heady stew, and one that took Western Europe and North America four or five generations to absorb. To expect Argentina or Indonesia or China or Ukraine to swallow such changes in a far shorter time is probably asking too much. No wonder we hear the creakings and crashings of the structures of the post-1945 world order all around us. 
But in the Middle East the difficulties present not just another case of traditional societies having to come to terms with the forces of modernization. The unvarnished truth is that the tensions there are of a different order of magnitude. The region extends over a vast, sprawling area, where a badly damaged though powerful and religiously driven order is locked in confrontation with global trends more penetrating and unsettling than could ever have been imagined when Muslim self-confidence was at its peak some centuries ago. What Lewis is writing about in "What Went Wrong?" concerns one of the greatest cultural and political divides in modern history. 
Sometime around 1760, Britain, then France and America took off to another world, one that was increasingly secular, democratic, industrial and tolerant in ways that left many of the other regions gasping at the combined implications of such changes. Certain societies in parts of Latin America or India or Russia felt they had little choice but to follow suit, although hoping to brake the impacts of Western man. The Middle East, powerful a half-millennium earlier, when Europe was a bundle of inchoate, backward states and unworthy of attention, did not. Yet Europe rose while the Muslim world rested on its laurels -- until it was besieged by Western ships, armaments, iron goods and cheap textiles, to all of which it became harder and harder to respond. 
The West's cultural messages, especially about democracy, made things even more difficult. Those with power in Muslim societies found it impossible to contemplate the separation of religion and state, or admit to a changed place in society for women or permit the free exchange of ideas, particularly unpleasant ideas, on the lines argued by John Stuart Mill and others. But there is even more to it than that. As Lewis shrewdly points out, the works of Mozart and Shakespeare and Voltaire have traveled around the globe, as for that matter have Stravinsky, jazz and George Orwell. But they all pretty much stop at the frontiers of the Arab world, which has shown little interest in how others think, write, compose; there are few translations of these writers and few performances of these musicians, nor are there great libraries and museums of Western art to match the impressive collections of Muslim culture in the West. (There is no presumption by Lewis here that Western or Slavic or Japanese culture is inherently superior, only that it is disturbing that this troubled part of our planet has never really cared.) 
It is not that the Muslim world was totally without attempts at reform and renewal in the face of global trends, or that there was no appreciation that its own earlier superiority had vanished. In fact, Lewis is extremely good in detailing Ottoman and Arab and Iranian scholars who, from the 18th century onward, called with growing alarm for change. The sad fact is that for the most part their calls went unheeded. 
Among the many reasons for such a failure discussed in this remarkably succinct account, one especially stands out. It is that the reformers split into two diametrically opposed camps: the Western-oriented movements, which sought adaptation, imitation and accommodation with modernity, though within a moderately Muslim order of things; and the conservatives, who angrily claimed that the reason for the decline was traitorous forces within their own societies, those who had strayed from the true path of the prophet. These forces, the conservatives argued, were even more sinful and deserved more punishment than the infidels themselves. It is not difficult, in reading these earlier denunciations of Arab liberals, to recall bin Laden's recent ferocious speeches against the Saudi leadership and others in the Middle East for defiling the true faith. 
And yet, because "What Went Wrong?" was written before the Sept. 11 attacks, it has no reference to the immediate crisis, nor has it therefore any prescriptions for the United States, or the West in general. This is not a text that will directly help Donald H. Rumsfeld as he waits for his morning briefings. In a way, however, this is the book's great strength, and its claim upon our attention: for it offers a long view in the midst of so much short-term and confusing punditry on television, in the op-ed pages, on campuses and in strategic studies think tanks. My guess is that Lewis feels that should bin Laden be killed, his Qaeda network destroyed and a reasonable truce prevail in Afghanistan, the problem he describes will not have gone away, because it is a far deeper and bigger question for world society than even the awful terrorist attacks on the United States late last summer.
What, then, is to be done? At the end of the day, Lewis argues, the answer lies within the Muslim world itself. Either its societies, especially those in the Middle East, will continue in "a downward spiral of hate and spite, rage and self-pity, poverty and oppression," with all that implies for a horrible and troubled future; or "they can abandon grievance and victimhood, settle their differences and join their talents, energies and resources in a common creative endeavor" to the benefit of themselves and the rest of our planet. Perhaps the outside world can help a bit, though probably not much. "For the time being, the choice is their own." With this final sentence, and all that precedes it, Lewis has done us all -- Muslim and non-Muslim alike -- a remarkable service.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); HISTORY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); AL-QAEDA (75%); TALIBAN (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: OXFORD UNIVERSITY PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



791 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: And Bear In Mind 

 BODY:
 (Editors' choices of other recent books of particular interest)

POLAR, by T. R. Pearson. (Viking, $24.95.) A quietly unsettling, darkly satirical Southern novel, whose hero, an old rural Virginia reprobate, inexplicably acquires oracular familiarity with the Antarctic and knowledge about a little girl's unsolved disappearance three years earlier.

ROSCOE, by William Kennedy. (Viking, $24.95.) In the seventh novel of Kennedy's splendid Albany cycle, Roscoe Conway, heir to the city's three-time mayor, operator and fixer and finder of needful cash, runs out of zeal for the political game and falls in love, of all comic possibilities, with another man's wife.

ANTHONY BLUNT: His Lives, by Miranda Carter. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) The brains, breeding and social connections that made Blunt so esteemed in his daytime work (curator of Britain's royal art collection) served him as well in his night job (Soviet spy), where, in an act of documentation not unlike cataloging paintings, he reproduced hundreds of secret M.I.5 papers.

JOHN MAYNARD KEYNES. Volume Three: Fighting for Freedom, 1937-1946, by Robert Skidelsky. (Viking, $34.95.) The final installment of Skidelsky's life of the most influential economist since Adam Smith, who gave his all in Britain's struggle for survival in World War II, negotiating finances with the United States and trying to save Britain's market economy.

THEM: Adventures With Extremists, by Jon Ronson. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) A British journalist and documentary filmmaker, straining to sound naive, hobnobs with conspiracy theorists who think a few conspirators run the world; at their most extreme, they can become conspirators themselves, as Timothy McVeigh did after leaving the Ku Klux Klan.

PALLADIO, by Jonathan Dee. (Doubleday, $24.95.) Dee, a courageous novelist of ideas, takes on morals, lost love and the art of selling, all of them more or less linked in this story about a beautiful (and passive) woman and two advertising executives who differ about the power of the viewer over the thing viewed.

LATITUDES OF MELT, by Joan Clark. (Soho, $24.) A slowly mesmerizing novel in which a baby found on a cake of ice off Newfoundland grows up to construct an existence seemingly untroubled by the nonexistence of a past, leaving it up to her children and grandchildren to figure out who she might be.

BE MY KNIFE, by David Grossman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A brilliant concoction by an outstanding Israeli novelist whose hero, a 33-year-old married man, persuades a woman to undertake a brutally honest love affair to be carried on, in a political and physical vacuum, entirely by correspondence.

THE CAPRICES, by Sabina Murray. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $13.) A collection of short stories, evocative, dark and intense, set largely in the Pacific of World War II; their characters are obliged to extract the resistance of lone souls from the terror of combat and the hostility of landscape and climate.

GRAPHIC: Photos (T. E. Pearson; Ned Pratt) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); HUMOROUS LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); PAINTING (73%); ART COLLECTING (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); ESPIONAGE (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (56%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: ADAM SMITH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



792 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 7269 words

HEADLINE: An Artist Beyond Isms 

BYLINE:  By Michael Kimmelman; Michael Kimmelman is the chief art critic of The New York Times. He has written recently for the magazine about Ellsworth Kelly, Bridget Riley and Matthew Barney.

 BODY:
You can't miss the painter Gerhard Richter's studio in a suburb outside Cologne. It is a large white brick-and-concrete shoe box he designed several years ago, an industrial-looking building with a blank wall facing the street. This is a distinguished neighborhood of split-level houses occupied by prosperous families. Richter moved here from a former factory building in Cologne, where many artists live, partly because he wanted to get away from other artists. Just recently, he bought some trees and had them planted in a row to screen the front of the building after he discovered that a few of the neighbors were complaining about its severity. Having built a private Berlin Wall with his studio, he has now decorated it with wild apple trees. 
 In the studio, there is an office for a part-time secretary, a guest room, a small kitchen and a workshop for the assistant who stretches Richter's canvases and makes the architectural models by which Richter calculates -- to the millimeter, if possible -- how his pictures should look in prospective galleries or museums. Beyond the workshop and a tidy open storage closet are the rooms where Richter paints: a large studio and a smaller one. 
 Only operating rooms are this immaculate. Not a sheet of paper is on the secretary's black modular desk. Every roll of tape is kept in color-coded order on designated hooks in the workshop. Brushes are stacked in drawers Richter custom-designed on rolling shelves. After leaving a half-full coffee cup in the smaller studio one morning, I returned a short while later to find it gone and the desk wiped clean, although I never saw anybody enter or leave the room. 
When your works sell for millions of dollars, as Richter's do at auction, you can indulge yourself if you are an obsessive-compulsive. Richter's life, like his work, depends upon absolute control, and there is something both elegant and alarming about that condition.
Since the mid-60's, Richter has been celebrated and attacked, pretty much equally, for the extreme physical precision, maddening opacity and daunting intellectual quality of his work, which switch-hits, sometimes almost as if arbitrarily, between realism and abstraction. The realist pictures -- landscapes, flowers, skulls, portraits, candles, among other things -- copy postcards, news photos and his own snapshots in a style that is mechanically exact but calculatedly blurry in parts, daring a viewer to figure out what, if anything, the pictures are about. The abstractions sometimes perversely turn improvisational gestures into deliberate, mechanical-looking, freeze-dried marks. They have the quality of blue ice, pristine and cool. Richter's paintings are disciplined, contradictory, strange, melancholic, even sometimes morbid. 
And they are among the great works of the postwar era. At a time when art is full of doubt, Richter is the most self-critical of artists, putting painting to the most extravagant tests and taking nothing for granted. In the process, he makes disturbing and often utterly beautiful art. Other artists, like Jasper Johns, ask what is the meaning of a brush stroke. Richter asks what is the value of art itself -- what is its use in the world.
In February, the Museum of Modern Art will open a major retrospective of his paintings. Organized by Robert Storr, it is overdue. Richter has never been the subject of a museum retrospective in New York. America's leading modern art museum is only now looking at Europe's most challenging modern painter.
Richter's reputation is as a prolific, tricky virtuoso, a deliberately elusive Conceptualist who, it is often said, paints only to prove that painting is dead. The Modern's show should help to alter that view. "He's not playing hard to get," Storr says. "He's doing something that is hard to get." Spending time with Richter, talking to him, you discover that far from being sterile or evasive, he is at heart a traditionalist: in a completely unsentimental, cold-eyed way, he is a true believer in painting. He can even seem old-fashioned when he muses on the decline of modern art and the need for standards. He is a formal man in an informal time.
His work asks people to think freshly and not romantically about control versus freedom, austerity versus exuberance, faith versus skepticism: about what we can trust in what we see. It raises questions about contemporary politics and German history, which Richter doesn't presume to answer. Having grown up under the Nazis and then in Communist East Germany, he has had his share of dictators and ideologues, in life and in art. He is a solitary man who rarely grants interviews, aware that his solitude also enhances his aura. In private, he comes across as forthcoming, courtly and driven -- a competitive, sometimes thin-skinned artist who, at the end of the day, just wants to be alone in his immaculate studio, painting.
Thirty years ago, Richter painted 48 black-and-white portrait heads copied straight from an old German encyclopedia. The subjects included Thomas Mann, Puccini, William James and Kafka. Dead white males. A pantheon of dour faces. 
Richter has never said much about these pictures, but he has talked about the problem of the father figure for Germans of his era. Who were young Germans supposed to look up to after the war? An old generation had been disgraced. A new generation distrusted tradition and all figures of authority. Richter's portraits weren't depictions of his personal heroes. They were illustrations of a dilemma. Deadpan, unlovable and slightly absurd, the heads solicited neither admiration nor disdain, only a vague sense of loss. Richter was poking at a wound, the cultural, political gulf between prewar and postwar societies.
But the issue of the father figure was also personal to him. He was born in Dresden on Feb. 9, 1932. By the time he was school age, like other ordinary middle-class German children with his background, he was enrolled in the German Young Folk, the Hitler Youth for small boys and girls. Parents enrolled their children if they didn't want to be ostracized by the Nazis -- or, of course, if they were Nazis. His father, Horst, was a schoolteacher who joined the Nazi Party because it was necessary and expected if he wanted to keep his job, Richter says. Horst fought in the army, was taken prisoner by the Americans and then returned home in 1946 without prospects, like so many other German men.
By then, his son regarded him as a hapless interloper. "I thought, What do you want here?" Richter recalls over dinner one evening at the Excelsior Hotel in Cologne. He pauses, before revealing something else: "He was not my father anyway. My mother had let me know this in different ways." He doesn't say if he knows who his real father was. 
The daughter of a concert pianist who went on to manage a family brewery that went bankrupt, his mother, Hildegard Schonfelder, was a strong-willed woman in a mixed-class, mismatched relationship. She had taken another lover by the end of the war. She made Richter feel special -- fostering his interest in culture and his sense of social superiority -- but he has few warm memories of either her or Horst. When, as a young man, he fled in 1961 from East Germany to West Germany, he left them in Dresden without saying a word and never saw them again. "They died several years later, when it was not really possible for me to go back," he says matter-of-factly, then returns to his dinner. 
Among his long-lost juvenilia, there is a portrait of Horst, which Richter keeps in a loose-leaf binder of black-and-white reproductions at his studio. It is an awkward drawing of a bullish man, arms crossed. Horst is blank-faced. In the mid-60's, Richter painted "Horst With Dog," based on a family snapshot. This time, his father mugs at the camera, his frizzy hair sticking out either side of his head. He looks like a buffoon.
There are two other family portraits from this period. Uncle Rudi was his mother's favorite brother, a handsome playboy, the proud Nazi, a familiar German type from that era. Rudi went to war and was killed after just a few days. Richter remembers being impressed by Rudi's bravado as a child. "Although he was very stupid," he adds. The painting of Rudi, in black and white, shows him stiffly posing in his army uniform.
"Aunt Marianne" is the other portrait, based on a different snapshot. Marianne was Rudi's and Hildegard's sister. She was sent to a mental institution when she was 18, where Nazi doctors euthanized her. In the picture, she is a shadowy figure holding Richter when he was a baby. 
If you saw Richter on the street, you might mistake him for a country doctor. Small, bespectacled and trim, with cropped gray hair, he wears jackets, button-down shirts and plain knit ties. 
He speaks softly, not tentatively but carefully, in ways that can be exquisitely contradictory. Richter's detractors say he is a cynic, though he denies that, preferring to think of himself as gloomy, yes, pessimistic, possibly even insecure -- but not cynical. "By nature I am a skeptic," he says. "I don't dare to think my paintings are great. I can't understand the arrogance of someone saying, 'I have created a big, important work.' I want to reject this pathetic behavior, this notion of the heroic artist." His point is directed at what he sees as a culture of excessive self-regard among artists who should know enough to admit the limits of what they do. "Pollock, Barnett Newman, Franz Kline, their heroism derived from the climate of their time, but we do not have this climate.
"On the other hand," he adds, typically flipping the argument around an instant later, "you do need feelings like they had to some extent. So I am afraid there must be a side of me close to those feelings. Those absurd feelings." 
Richter knows he is a great artist.
About to turn 70, he lives with Sabine Moritz, his third wife, and their two children, Moritz, 7, and Ella, 5, in a house behind the studio, which he also designed. Like the studio, his house is a meticulous, perfectly symmetrical concrete-and-glass building, which a friend of his described as a mausoleum. The children's swing set in the garden softens the effect slightly. 
He sticks to a strict routine, waking at 6:15 every morning. He makes breakfast for his family, takes Ella to school at 7:20 and is in the studio by 8. At 1 o'clock, he crosses the garden from the studio back to the house. The grass in the garden is uncut. Richter proudly points this out, to show that even it is a matter of his choosing, not by chance. At 1 o'clock, he eats lunch in the dining room, alone. A housekeeper lays out the same meal for him each day: yogurt, tomatoes, bread, olive oil and chamomile tea. 
After lunch, Richter returns to his studio to work into the evening. "I have always been structured," he explains. "What has changed is the proportions. Now it is eight hours of paperwork and one of painting." He claims to waste time -- on the house, the garden -- although this is hard to believe. "I go to the studio every day, but I don't paint every day. I love playing with my architectural models. I love making plans. I could spend my life arranging things. Weeks go by, and I don't paint until finally I can't stand it any longer. I get fed up. I almost don't want to talk about it, because I don't want to become self-conscious about it, but perhaps I create these little crises as a kind of a secret strategy to push myself. It is a danger to wait around for an idea to occur to you. You have to find the idea." As he talks, I notice a single drop of paint on the floor beneath one of his abstract pictures, the only thing out of place in the studio.
Richter has been married continuously since 1957, just not to the same woman. His first wife, Ema Eufinger, was a textile-design student whom he met in Dresden. They had a daughter, Betty, born in 1966, who now lives in Cologne. Richter met Isa Genzken in the mid-70's when she became a student at the art academy in Dusseldorf, where he was teaching; they married in 1982. That was a rough marriage between two intense artists. "My last wife was very competitive, which was hard for both of us," Richter says. Then, in 1995, he married Sabine, a former student of his. A beautiful, unaffected, soft-spoken woman, she manages Richter's strict regime, raises their two children and paints in the studio in Cologne, which they kept after moving to the suburbs. Her paintings -- landscapes and flowers -- are more atmospheric, less photographic than Richter's. 
The art on the walls of the house is mostly his own, odds and ends he has not sold for whatever reason. He doesn't collect art. There are also small paintings in the living room by Sabine. 
The only other works I notice in the house are two early photographs, from the 1980's, by Thomas Struth. No painter has had a bigger influence than Richter on the current generation of German star photographers that includes Struth, Andreas Gursky and Thomas Ruff. Adopting his clinical style, they have noted the ironic uses he made of photography and in different ways paid tribute. Struth -- who has his own big traveling retrospective opening in Dallas in May -- has produced several portraits of Richter (new ones illustrate this article). Gursky has made a photograph of an all-gray carpet, alluding to Richter's all-gray paintings, and he photographed the Rhine river in 1999 -- a big, digitally manipulated picture that consists of wide, thin bands of grass, water and sky -- in so doing recalling how Richter had evoked German Romantic art via postcard photographs. 
Richter keeps a catalog of everything he has done, or everything he cares about having done. He has also put together an inventory of almost every source he has ever used: this is his immense, obsessive "Atlas," an ever-expanding compendium of thousands of scavenged news photos, snapshots, postcards and drawings. 
When he begins a new landscape or still life, he combs through "Atlas" and through snapshots he keeps in a drawer. Sometimes, he makes slight adjustments to a photograph after he decides to use it: he crops out, adds in or covers over details, so that the painting will not be just a rote copy of the original, although he wants the composition to look as if it comes straight from a snapshot or news photo. He and Sabine take pictures on vacation. Sometimes they are views of a corner of a house, a balcony, anonymous places. 
Today, Richter chooses one of these, a snowy scene of the edge of a building, and carries it to the basement of his studio. He puts a canvas on an easel at the end of the room and slides the photograph into a projector. The photo appears, projected onto the canvas, and Richter begins to trace it with a piece of charcoal and a ruler. Tracing each minute detail of a photograph, as he does, usually takes Richter a couple of hours. Then he is ready to paint. 
"Idiots can do what I do," he says, although of course he doesn't really think so. "When I first started to do this in the 60's, people laughed. I clearly showed that I painted from photographs. It seemed so juvenile. The provocation was purely formal -- that I was making paintings like photographs. Nobody asked about what was in the pictures. Nobody asked who my Aunt Marianne was. That didn't seem to be the point."
The point, among other things, was to distance himself from the cliches of artistic expression -- all the spontaneous, fiery, warm and fuzzy modes of painting -- so as to make people really look and not reflexively swoon. By using deliberately banal photographs, impersonally mimicked, he was doing the exact opposite of what painting was expected to do, not grabbing a viewer by the lapels but methodically copying an everyday image. In time, some of the pictures have come to look expressively painted, perceptions having changed, but making methodical copies was Richter's intent.
"The abstracts are the opposite to work on," he says. "That process is more like walking, step by step, without an intention, until you discover where you are going. When I paint a landscape from a photograph or an image like this one, I can see the end point before I start, although in fact it always turns out slightly different than I imagined. What I have is not facility, because this really doesn't take skill. I have an eye. I couldn't make a drawing of you sitting here right now. I would love to have that ability, in the same way that I would love to play the piano. Virtuosity is a precondition for pianists, but in addition you have to be good. These are not the same thing. This is the big problem for painting today, the terrible side of modern art, because you can now do anything and simply declare it to be art -- with no sense of quality."
In the mid-60's, Richter began painting color charts. They were like the paint charts in hardware stores, only bigger, and the colors were not in any particular order. The charts looked Pop and also Minimalist, but they weren't either, precisely. They weren't even exactly abstract, being adaptations of real objects. But they were catchy and colorful. Richter had found an in-between space -- neither Pop nor Minimalism and not simply Conceptualism -- from which to reconsider abstract art. As a Modern curator, Peter Galassi, puts it, Richter was like the suitor "who expresses the purity of his love by rejecting the tired gestures of romance." He "discovered a way to make big seductive paintings by renouncing what he regarded as the worn-out cliches of abstraction." 
The United States, puffed up about its own art for so many years, has condescended toward European art since World War II, notwithstanding the international vogue for neo-Expressionism during the 1980's. Neo-Expressionism was the epitome of heart on the sleeve, gestural painting, with which Richter's abstractions were confused. Richter got a boost financially from that burst of attention: the American art market, above all, made him a rich man. But the vogue lumped him with German artists like Georg Baselitz and Markus Lupertz, who had more in common with fashionable Americans like Julian Schnabel and David Salle. Richter remembers "all those vile painters and then Tom Krens doing that horrible show," referring to the Guggenheim director's smorgasbord of German art in the late 80's, "Refigured Painting," which introduced some people to Richter's work but left many of them saying that they never wanted to look at another contemporary German painting again, Richter's or anybody else's. 
Neo-Expressionism finally sank from the weight of its mediocrity, and Richter was liberated from that connection, but this left many people still puzzling over his art. It refused to fit into pigeonholes. Picasso, the exception to everything, got away with being a chameleon. But critics, not to mention auction houses and collectors, generally prefer painters to be consistent. Richter flaunted his inconstancy, implying that no mode was better than any other -- that realism and abstraction were interchangeable. 
This attitude may have befuddled the public, but it made him the ideal man for the postmodernists, who came along by the 90's. They repackaged him as a deconstructivist, one of those conceptual artists dismantling the language of art only to leave it in disarray, the Jean Baudrillard of painting. "I know nothing, can do nothing, understand nothing, know nothing, nothing," Richter said, and it became one of his most frequently cited remarks. To postmodernists, nihilism became the essence of his art. He made his so-called in-paintings by pushing different colors of paint around with a meandering brush, like a bored child, until they made gray slush. What could seem more nihilistic than that?
Meanwhile, the pictures he copied from family photos and newspaper illustrations, while they seemed to owe something to Pop and Andy Warhol, exploited the pathos and banality of the ordinary snapshot: "I was surprised by photography, which we all use so massively every day. Suddenly, I saw it in a new way, as a picture that offered me a new view, free of all the conventional criteria I had always associated with art. It had no style, no composition, no judgment. It freed me from personal experience. For the first time, there was nothing to it: it was pure picture. That's why I wanted to have it, to show it -- not use it as a means to painting, but use painting as a means to photography."
Postmodernists, puritanically distrustful of aesthetic pleasure and eager to plunge a stake once and for all into the heart of painting, praised Richter for what one enthusiast called his "thorough demystification of the activity of painting and its pretensions to creativity": Richter "unmasks painting as a dull and nugatory activity." His paintings weren't really paintings; they were rhetorical "statements about ideas for paintings."
To postmodernists, Richter was "the unrivaled anti-master of his craft who could demonstrate once and for all that painting had exhausted its formerly protean possibilities," as Robert Storr writes in his catalog to the Modern's upcoming retrospective. 
But, as Storr adds, this view makes sense only if you don't look at the work or listen to what Richter actually says. To Richter, any dogma, ideology or mass belief is abhorrent. Kasper Konig, the director of the Ludwig Museum in Cologne and an old friend of Richter's, remembers pointing to a big photograph by Andreas Gursky of a crowd at a rock concert. Richter recoiled at the image because it showed mass culture. 
Richter now sees the postmodernists mostly as ideologues who want to pigeonhole him as a purely rhetorical, Conceptual painter. "My works are not just rhetorical, except in the sense that all art is rhetorical," he responds. "I believe in beauty." This is exactly what the postmodernists do not want to hear. 
But Richter's inclination is often to do what people do not want or expect. Received opinion is always suspect, as far as he is concerned. In the early 80's, he painted images of burning candles -- pictures whose subject recalls old masters like La Tour and suggests religiosity. "Nobody bought any of them," he remembers. "And they were very cheap. Now they sell for a fortune. But they were out of time and unexpected. People knew my abstracts and my landscapes. Then came the candles. So maybe they were therefore necessary. But it was also polemics on my part. You are not supposed to do religious symbols. And when people attack religious symbols too much, this motivates me to react." Not that Richter is religious. He was simply reminding people of their own hypocrisy. We may not be religious but religious images of the past "still speak to us. We continue to love them, to use them, to have need of them."
At the moment, Richter's big studio is dominated by more than half a dozen darkly tinted panels of mirrored glass, each seven or eight feet high, differently cantilevered from the walls on adjustable steel supports that Richter continues to tinker with. Over the years, he has made many works that involve mirrors. You can miss the subtle angles of these cantilevered panels at first, so the works can look mute and drab. But they turn out to be surprising and disorienting. 
On the walls of the small studio next door are several unfinished abstract paintings. He always works on a number of these at a time. They feed off one another, he says, and by working on several he doesn't get too uptight about any particular one. "At the beginning, I feel totally free, and it's fun, like being a child. The paintings can look good for a day or an hour. Over time, they change. In the end, you become like a chess player. It takes me longer than some people to recognize their quality, their situation -- to realize when they are finished. Finally, one day I enter the room and say, 'Checkmate.' Then sometimes I need a break, a quiet job, like a landscape. But I always need to paint abstracts again. I need that pleasure."
He starts with splashes of color or some geometric composition -- usually something gaudy and generic. Then he employs homemade wood-and-plexiglass squeegees to wipe and drag the paint. The process entails repeatedly building up and wiping off. The effects change depending on where and how he applies pressure with the squeegee. He has become very adept at this, but there is still an element of chance involved. He also pulls brushes through the wiped surface -- fine boar's hair brushes -- and in the end the pictures always turn out to look excruciatingly subtle and calculated. 
"I can't say what they are about," he says. "I don't think they are expressionistic. I don't know why people say that. Why not say they are like Chinese paintings or like batik? People also talk about the quality of light in the paintings. 'Ah, the light!' Or 'Ah, the space!' It's phony reverence. It's ridiculous." 
To the contrary, perversely, he says he expects people to look for something recognizable in an abstract picture, a chair or a cloud, even in an all-gray painting. It is instinctive to search for something, he says. Abstract art is inherently about the search -- and about not finding anything. "My gray monochromes have the same illusionistic implications as my landscapes," he insists. "I want them to be seen as narratives -- even if they are narratives of nothingness. Nothing is something. You might say they are like photographs of nothing."
He points to a half-finished purple abstraction facing his desk. "This one is too elegant, too shiny, like jewelry. It seeks applause. This is clear to me, but difficult to explain, which is what makes abstraction so fascinating. In one sense, abstract art is absolutely nothing, stupid. In 100 years, maybe people will just think it's garbage. But somehow we see something in it; we have a sense of quality." Searching for an illustration of his point, he leafs through a catalog to find some of the gray monochromes. "I was doing these when I was getting divorced. When you feel totally empty, you do this -- but then I saw that one picture was actually better than another. Both were miserable, but the difference was interesting. I loved this: that there must be something, some higher faculty, some progressive sensibility that we find in abstraction. But it is impossible to describe."
In the 60's, Richter painted several big, blurry, black-and-white aerial cityscapes. Some of them seemed to show bombed-out buildings. Others were pictures of housing developments like those rising across West Germany as part of the so-called economic miracle. Everyone in the new West Germany had been promised an apartment after the war, but what they got were often cheap flats in anonymous housing projects. Richter's paintings, deadpan as usual, conveyed the tediousness and misery, although he says: "I guess I wanted to use that theme, but I didn't want to acknowledge it. At that time, it was kitsch to be a social, political painter. I was thinking I had left that behind in East Germany."
It had taken him a while to leave East Germany and bombed-out Dresden. The war, he recalls, was "very impressive to me. When I first got my uniform as a child, I liked it." He remembers pretending to dig trenches and be a soldier. "Later, we had pistols and cigarettes and there were big guns around, and you know for a boy, society breaking down is a big adventure." 
He started drawing at 15; being introverted and lonely, it was a way to pass the time. "I loved to paint, but Germany was a destroyed country and becoming a painter was regarded as a terrible idea if you were from a bourgeois family as I was. So I thought I might be a stage painter. In the beginning, I didn't trust myself: Could I do it? Did I have the talent? For many years, that was the essence of my doubt. By the time I realized I finally could paint, people were saying painting was dead." 
He entered the art academy in Dresden in 1951, at 19. Art in East Germany meant Socialist Realism, the Soviet style, with nods to modernists like Picasso, Diego Rivera and Renato Guttuso because they were Communists.
"In '46, I had started to awaken to the world," Richter recalls. "At first, the Russians nationalized everything. Rich people had their property taken away, and the people got access to their libraries, which was wonderful for me. I read Hermann Hesse. Thomas Mann was a little too heavy for me. But Lombroso, Nietzsche. Materialists, I would call them -- writers who said there was no god, no spirit, that freedom is an illusion. That affected me deeply.
"Until the early 50's, while the East German system was not yet fully in place, we were in limbo, which was fine. Unlike our fathers, we were not ashamed to be German. I thought it was great to be an art student. The art school was half-destroyed. Dresden was still in ruins, so we were obliged to work twice a week clearing away rubble around the city. We discovered the cellars of churches and a system of tunnels under the city. Fantastic. It all seemed perfectly normal. We were very happy. We made jokes. At school, the training was quite severe, different from schools in the West, and I enjoyed it at first. We had to be in class at 8 a.m. We had to study political science, economics, Russian and aesthetics. For a year, you only drew; you weren't allowed to paint. 
"But somewhere along the way we all began to notice that there was something wrong. We saw a few art magazines from the West and got a sense of another world. We began to talk about a third way between capitalism and Communism in art. I saw the work of graphic designers from Poland, the only ones I came across who seemed to be doing something for society but in a style that was more modern."
In 1957, he married Ema Eufinger. By then, he was a successful muralist in a more or less Social Realist style, which meant he received state privileges, including the right to travel. On a trip to West Germany, he saw Jackson Pollocks and Lucio Fontanas in Kassel. It was his first firsthand encounter with truly modern abstraction. Meanwhile, a BBC report on East German art chose a dimly modern-looking painting he had done of Dresden as proof that formalism, meaning modern art, was not entirely quashed. Having seen Pollocks, he knew his own picture was not daring. It was warmed-over Picasso.
"I was called a formalist, and in East Germany that meant you could be denied a chance to exhibit. So I knew I had to leave, not because I was worried about the controversy but because I knew the controversy was about a bad picture. It wasn't good enough to be controversial." He dredges up a black-and-white reproduction of it from his loose-leaf binder. "I was getting all the wrong reactions. Friends said the work was wonderful, and the attacks made it seem more important than it was. I had started to earn money with the murals. I earned enough to get a car. That was a big deal. So it was not easy to give up. But I knew I had to leave."
In 1961, just before the Berlin Wall went up, he finally made the move. As Richter tells the story, on the way back from a trip to Moscow, his train happened to bypass Dresden and went to West Berlin. "I left my luggage in one of the storage lockers at the rail station. All I had was enough for two weeks, a suitcase of clothes. Then I returned to Dresden, sold the car, found someone to drive me and my wife back to Berlin." They pretended to be making a day trip to the West. "I knew it would be dangerous to carry too much with me, so I took almost nothing. Anyway, I was not leaving anything behind except my work, which I didn't want."
He and Ema settled in Dusseldorf. Rauschenberg and Twombly were exhibiting there with avant-garde Europeans like Piero Manzoni and Yves Klein. The Zero Group (Heinz Mack, Otto Piene and Gunther Uecker) was founded in Dusseldorf, and it was making monochrome paintings and kinetic sculptures, while Fluxus artists staged the first Happenings.
Richter enrolled at the Kunstakademie, transformed from a drowsy outpost with the arrival in the early 1960's of Joseph Beuys as a professor of sculpture. Beuys, a Luftwaffe pilot during the war, issued oracular utterances and talked mystically about abolishing the distinctions between art and life. A shaman, egomaniac and idiosyncratically gifted draftsman, he was a divisive but charismatic teacher until he was finally dismissed in 1972. ("Where I am, academy is," he said.) Beuys was a conspicuous sign that Dusseldorf, with neighboring Cologne and its gallery scene, had become the vital center of a new European avant-garde. 
Richter made friends. Sigmar Polke and Blinky Palermo were students who had also fled East Germany. With Konrad Lueg, they formed a clique. Polke, the wild man among them, for a while acted like Picasso to Richter's Braque, the two egging each other on despite the fact that temperamentally they couldn't have been less alike. 
"Lueg and Palermo saw what was good, what was bad, in what I was painting," Richter remembers. "That became the basis of our relationship, that we shared an idea, a sensibility. With Polke, it was different. Our relationship was based on being outrageous." I ask Richter what he thinks of Polke now. He says: "I have difficulties with his work. He refuses all values and criteria, and for that reason I could never talk to him seriously. He refuses to accept any borders, any limits." They rarely see each other anymore.
In the beginning as a student in Dusseldorf, Richter was just trying to grasp what modern art meant in the West. "I was already almost 30, and by then everyone was talking about the Americans. Picasso was irrelevant. He was history." Clearly, he associates Picasso with what he was leaving behind in East Germany when he came to the West. "I found myself in this deep pool, and there were all these figures swimming around, like Rauschenberg and Warhol and Lichtenstein. I wanted to go where they were. Seeing Pollock and Fontana in Kassel had given me a sense of what it meant to be a modern artist and take risks, but it was a distant admiration because they were a different generation. This was my generation.
"So I started to paint like crazy, from figurative to abstract. Then after a year, I put it all on a bonfire in the courtyard of the academy. I suppose there was some ritual involved, but I didn't tell anyone before I did it, so it wasn't public, and I felt the work had to be burned because people were already taking things and paintings were starting to circulate. I had to prevent that because I realized it was time to start from scratch. Photographs were the way forward. I'm shocked now that the story seems clear, because it didn't seem clear at the time." 
In retrospect, what is clear is that he rejected Beuys. "I'll tell you a story," he says. "In '69, there was a show of 12 Dusseldorf artists in Lucerne -- Polke, Beuys, Palermo, me. We asked a photographer to make a picture of us all for a poster, and we waited for Beuys. It was typical that he made us wait. Then in he comes, poses right in the middle and says, 'Go.' The cult around Beuys can make you ill, to see how successful it is. It was the same with Baader-Meinhof." 
As much as anything by him, it is Richter's Baader-Meinhof paintings that made him internationally known. He had been especially startled when he came to the West to find that "every intelligent person was on the left." He once wrote: "Because Marxist intellectuals refuse to own up to their own disillusionment, it transforms itself into a craving for revenge. And so they turn their own ideological bankruptcy into the utter bankruptcy of the whole world -- mainly the capitalist world, of course, which they vilify and poison in their hatred and despair." 
In 1988, he painted a series of 15 works titled "October 18, 1977." It shocked Germans. The series was based on photographs of the Baader-Meinhof group, which called itself the Red Army Faction. Andreas Baader was a street hustler; Ulrike Meinhof was a radical journalist and former pacifist. With others -- Gudrun Ensslin, Holger Meins, Jan-Carl Raspe and Irmgard Moller, among them -- they staged a string of robberies, shootings and bombings of American Army bases that ended with the arrest of those six in 1972. A five-year struggle ensued during which other group members, allied with various European and Middle East terrorists, kidnapped hostages and occupied the West German Embassy in Stockholm to extort their release. The jailed members staged hunger strikes. Meins died. Meinhof was found hanged in her cell. The police called it suicide.
On Oct. 18, 1977, a botched plan to exchange the remaining members in prison for hostages on a hijacked plane that had been flown to Somalia ended with the deaths of all but one of the hijackers and the release of the passengers. Later that same morning, Baader was found dead with a bullet in his head, Raspe lay dying of a fatal bullet wound, Ensslin was hanging from a grate in her cell and Moller, the only survivor, was stabbed in the chest. Again, the official verdict was suicide.
The Red Army Faction members were some of the most violent terrorists among various young Germans protesting, like many young people elsewhere, during the 60's and 70's. They were protesting generally against materialism, the cold war and Vietnam, but more specifically in West Germany against what they saw as the country's smug, complacent refusal to come to terms with its Nazi past. Peaceful youth protests sometimes provoked violent responses from authorities; then violent protests caused even more violent responses. The Baader-Meinhof group became antiheroes to many young people disaffected from their parents who had acquiesced to Hitler. The novelist Heinrich Boll called it a war of "6 against 60 million." 
Richter's paintings showed different scenes copied from forensic photographs and clipped from magazines: Meins surrendering to police, Ensslin on her way to her cell, Ensslin's corpse, Baader's bookshelves in prison, the phonograph in which Baader was said to have hidden the gun with which he killed himself, two versions of Baader's corpse, three versions of Meinhof's. The final picture in the series represented Red Army Faction coffins passing through a mob of sympathizers and police. The pictures were black and white and blurry, like something you might see on an old television set with poor reception. You have to struggle to bring them into focus.
And they are aloof. "I was like a gravedigger while I painted these corpses. It was just work. If I felt one of them looked too theatrical, I painted over it." Completed a decade after the events, "October 18" reopened a wound that Richter saw hadn't really healed. They were a national provocation. He thought of the Baader-Meinhof group as deluded, not heroic. But as Storr says, "He wanted to give a human face to the victims of ideology who, for ideology's sake, created victims of their own."
There was perhaps a personal motivation, as usual. He was then married to Isa Genzken, like other people around him a leftist, who encouraged him to make the paintings. But, expressing the difficulty of their marriage, he was also distancing himself from her through them. Richter says that the series was a kind of "leave-taking."
"I was afraid more of the reaction on the left than the right," he says. "It was still very dangerous to deal with this subject in Germany. There was fear that the museum where I showed them might be bombed. All my friends were on the left, but I was not. They said: 'Someone with the right mentality could do this, but not Richter -- he is too bourgeois. He steals Baader-Meinhof away from us.' To me, they were part of the problem. I was standing outside watching how people, on both sides, ignored the truth because of their beliefs, beliefs that made them crazy. That was the point of the pictures." 
And for Richter, the subject was also a matter of personal exploration. "I suppose they also had to do with my father, the Nazis, being skeptical of all systems, all manias. In the 70's, political positions were so clearly split in Germany -- the country was so divided over the Baader-Meinhof group -- and I was annoyed by both sides. In terms of what I expressed in the paintings, that seemed my only choice, not because I wanted to be ambiguous but because I myself don't know how to answer these difficult questions. That was what I was conveying."
Since then, the pictures have functioned as a kind of negative Rorschach of public opinion. People who loathe the Red Army Faction find the works too sympathetic, and vice-versa. After Sept. 11, Richter says he looks back on the Baader-Meinhof group as "childish, naive terrorists." The men were macho and the women served them, just as their parents had done. "The new terrorists are professionals. Baader-Meinhof were romantics. But I don't mean the paintings are romantic. They are not."
Richter and Sabine are affectionate and playful together. They treat each other as equals. She is no-nonsense. He is learning to be an outgoing parent. Every night, he puts the children to bed with an ever-developing story he makes up. One morning, after spending several days with him, I stop by Richter's studio a last time just before he leaves with his family for vacation. 
Tacked to the wall behind Richter's desk are several postcards and snapshots: these are paintings by Chardin, a photograph of the World Trade Center in flames and a picture of the Austrian novelist Thomas Bernhard. "I like the way he repeats and repeats the same idea in different ways," Richter explains. "Also that he sees life so negatively. He is radically negative."
Above Richter's desk hangs a portrait of Moritz as a baby. Having painted his father, uncle and aunt nearly 40 years ago, he has lately turned to his wife and children. In a recent series of works, he shows, in a high chair and bib, baby Moritz with food smeared on his face. Richter painted three versions of this picture; the other two are blurrier. By virtue of its straightforward clarity, this one, the only one he has kept, is the most sentimental. "That was his first day feeding himself as a baby," Richter says. "Yes, it is sentimental. But I'm old enough now to show my love. I have finally discovered what it means to be a good father." 
A catalog is open on his desk, to a page reproducing some of his early 60's paintings based on pornographic photographs. "The porno was shameless, a test: how far could I go? I was foolish. I had no girlfriend, so I was maybe too interested in these sort of pictures." He says this half-jokingly, then immediately wants to retract it. "The art was too personal," he explains. "I think I keep a poker face, but I never really do. It's embarrassing.
"Today all artists are expected to be wild, destructive, but this is fashion. In the 60's, I was wild, but then it was not so common. No one even with rubber gloves on would have thought of touching a show of Julian Schnabels back then. Lupertz had no hope of finding an assistant. Today he is director of the art academy. 
"I'm not young anymore," he adds, and at that moment glances at his watch and notices it is nearly time for him to cross the garden to the house for his usual solitary lunch. He says: "I can bear this -- that I am not the young wild guy. I hope that the lust to work doesn't leave me. That would be sad. I am glad to get honors and high prices. But artists are valued today in terms of money, auctions. I wish society would need art more, but it doesn't. So I feel very lonely in this culture." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richter at home with his wife, Sabine, and their two children, Moritz and Ella.; "Townscape Madrid," 1968.; "256 Colors," 1974.; "Two Candles," 1982.; "48 Portraits," 1971-72: Louis Victor de Broglie, Bjornstjerne Bjornson, Rainer Maria Rilke, Albert Einstein, Franz Kafka, Giacomo Puccini, Paul Claudel, Gustav Mahler, Andre Gide, Oscar Wilde.; "Man Shot Down 1," 1988, from the "October 18, 1977" series.; "Abstract Picture (867-1)," 2000.; "Farm," 1999.; "Moritz," 2000.; "Abstract Picture (649-1)," 1987.; "Flowers," 1992.; In Richter's studio, nary a brush bristle is out of place. (artwork copyright $; Gerhard Richter; artwork courtesy of Marian Goodman Gallery, New York. copyright $; Gerhard Richter; photograph by Thomas Struth for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); PAINTING (78%); SUBURBS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%) ART; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC) 

PERSON: KIMMELMAN, MICHAEL; RICHTER, GERHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



793 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Cuba, So Close, Remains Distant for Cruise Lines

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
IN mid-December, the first American ship to dock in Cuba in almost 40 years arrived in Havana with a shipment of food from the United States. A number of cruise lines based in the United States would like to have been sailing right behind that ship, the Express, but for now their executives can only wait and wish.
 Among them is Sven Lindblad, the founder of Lindblad Expeditions. "In 1995, our director of environmental affairs was invited to Cuba to look around," Mr. Lind blad said. "He was excited at what he saw, and we developed some itineraries so that when it was legal to go, we wouldn't be starting from scratch." 
 Much of the United States travel industry has long been eyeing the island, and no segment more covetously than cruise lines. But after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, thoughts of Cuba were pushed to the rear of cruise line concerns, well behind ship security and trying to fill near-empty vessels. 
Yet Sept. 11 has made Cuba even more inviting. After the attacks, "many cruise lines pulled ships from elsewhere and added Caribbean itineraries," Mimi Weisband, a Crystal spokeswoman, said. Cruises calling at Cuba, she said, would appeal to travelers who want something different.
Early this month, a delegation of American business officials, their families and a few members of Congress traveled to Cuba, where some of them called for an end to the trade and travel embargo that the United States has imposed on Cuba since 1962, a stance shared by some in the travel business. "I still think that if Americans began to go to Cuba in large numbers, it would undermine Castro's popularity," said Mark S. Conroy, the president of Radisson Seven Seas Cruises. 
But the maximum sentence -- life without parole -- handed down to the leader of a Cuban spy ring last month in federal court in Miami after he and four others were convicted of conspiracy to commit espionage appears to be a sign that the Bush administration is not prepared to ease its policies against Cuba. 
Several European and Canadian companies already have footholds in Cuba. Offering low-cost package tours, they transport tourists to Cuba on chartered flights or on ships that do not call on American ports; the relative handful of cruise ships that dock in Cuba are prohibited from visiting the United States for the next six months. 
It is anybody's guess when and if Cuba will become fully accessible to American travelers, despite sentiment in Congress to lift or relax the embargo -- not so much for the sake of vacationers as to aid the nation's agriculture sector by lifting trade sanctions.
"Until the ban is lifted, we can't plan anything," said Michael Norton, Crystal Cruise's director of marketing. Even then, he added, "we'll have to undertake due diligence to make sure the infrastructure in terms of land programs, shore excursions and hotel properties is up to Crystal's standards." 
Cruise line officials are not the only ones who think that Americans will want to cruise to Cuba. Almost a decade ago, Jay J. Lewis, president of Market Scope, a marketing research company in Miami, estimated that 500,000 American cruise passengers would visit Havana in each of the first three years after cruises to Cuba resumed, rising to 1.8 million passengers and 600,000 ferry visitors by the 10th year. 
Mr. Lewis has since increased those estimates to at least 750,000 American cruise passengers in each of the first three years, and a minimum of 1.8 million by the 10th year. "A lot will depend on the size of the ships," he said, "and whether the berths are available to them or whether passengers will have to be tendered from the big ships to shore."
Mr. Lewis also forecast a bigger increase in visitors to Cuba by ferry, a theme that Mr. Conroy of Radisson also picked up on. "I'm guessing there is a great potential for substantial ferry operations," Mr. Conroy said, "not unlike those in the Baltic or between the United Kingdom and Europe." 
Mr. Conroy and Mr. Lindblad expressed a similar concern about the ambience of the island if there is a huge influx of tourists.
"Currently, it's hard to do Caribbean or canal itineraries and not end up in the same ports with five other ships," Mr. Conroy said. "But there are two to four Cuban ports that would fit nicely into any Caribbean schedule out of Miami, Fort Lauderdale, Palm Beach or Key West." 
Havana and Santiago de Cuba would be Radisson Seven Seas' primary focus in the beginning, he said.
But such an itinerary is probably some time off. Mr. Conroy said a group that recently tried to charter Radisson's Navigator in hopes of sailing to Cuba couldn't get Government authorization. They wound up flying to Cuba with a humanitarian organization that has a license to go there. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The freighter Express in Havana. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (95%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TOUR PACKAGES (72%); TELEMARKETING (71%); SENTENCING (71%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (71%); CONSPIRACY (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); AIRLINES (64%); ESPIONAGE (62%); AGRICULTURE (50%) SHIPS AND SHIPPING; CRUISES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; DISCOUNT SELLING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: ;MCDOWELL, EDWIN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) CUBA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



794 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Hard Times Prompt an Entrepreneurial Itch

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SANTIAGO 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
LAST August, Scott Allison checked to make sure that his phone was still working. It was, but there were no calls, no new clients. With pink-slip contagion sweeping the Bay Area, it looked as if his days as the No. 2 executive at a long-successful public relations agency might be coming to an untimely end.
 So he did what an increasing number of senior managers uncertain of their job prospects are doing: He set himself up at his own company. 
 Mr. Allison, 38, was hired in 1999 as president of Connors Communications, a New York firm, to run its San Francisco office and to open one in Los Angeles. It was the height of the Internet boom, and he had trouble keeping up with demand from the Bay Area's fledgling dot-coms, all rushing to get out the word about their businesses.
"The idea was that you had to cut through the clutter," he said. "I was getting 15 to 20 calls a day from people who wanted to hire us. Companies didn't even need a proposal from us; they just wanted to come by and drop off a check."
Then came the Internet bust, a disaster for the public relations industry. Clients canceled accounts; some agencies closed. In the last six to eight months alone, about 20 percent of all employees at big public relations firms have lost their jobs, according to Jack O'Dwyer, a publisher in Manhattan whose newsletter and Web site track the profession.
The loss of a single $100,000 annual retainer set off alarms at the Los Angeles office of Connors in December 2000, said Scott Pansky, the general manager. The client's vice president for marketing came in on Christmas Eve to deliver the bad news. "She said she has to fire us and that she's going to lose her job," he recalled.
Business kept slipping, and Mr. Allison and Connie Connors, who founded the firm in 1995, began discussing the fate of the West Coast operations, including the possibility of layoffs, closing the offices or even selling the company. Then, consulting with accountants, lawyers, potential investors and Ms. Connors, he began thinking about starting his own agency.
The risks were weighed against new realities. The previous year, he earned a little over $200,000 in salary and bonuses, and now he was staring at unemployment in a field where midlevel jobs were drying up. Just as unnerving, the staff members who reported to him also faced the prospect of losing their jobs.
He reached a decision, he said, while sitting up one night in bed talking with his wife. "She said, 'Well, if we don't do this, what's going to happen?' " he said. "And I said, 'More than likely, I'll be out there looking for work with thousands of other people.' "
He wasn't exactly a start-from-scratch entrepreneurial type. The thought of starting his own firm in a bedroom office and scraping by for months or years held no attraction.
But this was different. Mr. Allison and five of his managers put up the money to take over the two California offices last Sept. 1; they renamed the business Allison & Partners, with 21 people on the payroll. "I get to start with two offices, an experienced staff and the ability to go after a decent-sized account," he said.
The buyout was structured as an asset purchase of furniture and equipment, for a nominal sum, and included a low six-figure commitment of his own money. There was no debt involved, and Allison & Partners assumed the continuing liabilities of leases and salaries. The company also reached an agreement with Connors not to compete on each other's home turf and to work on some projects together. Ms. Connors says her firm has kept its technology focus and is signing new clients.
Mr. Allison and his managers have all taken pay cuts, but they hope to restore their previous salary levels by next year. All employees are now shareholders in the new company.
MANAGEMENT experts say Mr. Allison's move into a more entrepreneurial role is a common transition for managers in a recession. An ousted chief of a Fortune 500 company may start acquiring troubled firms and turning them around, or a laid-off middle manager may open a Jiffy Lube franchise. 
The percentage of jobless former managers and executives starting their own businesses increased to 9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001 from 6.45 percent in the previous quarter, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas, the outplacement firm.
While Mr. Allison has no regrets about becoming an owner, he concedes that the burdens have multiplied. "Now I have to worry about cash flow, what check came in today, what bills have to be paid today," he said. "Employees used to talk about 'the company.' Now they talk about 'Scott's company.' The responsibility was instant, not a gradual change."
Diversifying its clientele outside the high-tech sector, a modern survival tactic of many public relations firms, Allison & Partners has already added accounts from the likes of Sony Pictures and the Disney Channel. "Our ambitions are, we think, realistic: Be the best in class and the No. 1 boutique agency in California," he said.
Abbott C. Jones, founder of AdMedia Partners in New York, a provider of investment banking and advisory services to the advertising and marketing industries, said Mr. Allison had the good luck to be able to start his business with a minimum of financial risk.
"It's a professional service industry with no fixed assets," Mr. Jones said. "You are largely talking about the talents of a few individuals."
Indeed, Mr. Allison said providing even short-term job security gives his firm a competitive advantage.
"If your agency has gone through three or four rounds of layoffs, I don't even need to go to your office," he said. "I know your people are not focused on their clients. They're focused on finding another job."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott Allison founded his own public relations firm, Allison & Partners, when he saw that he might be laid off. (Dan Krauss for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BONUS PAY (65%); CLOSINGS (65%); CHRISTMAS (63%) PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: ALLISON & PARTNERS 

PERSON: ALLISON, SCOTT; SANTIAGO, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (72%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



795 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1378 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
Amid Recession, Hopeful Signs for Industrial Space

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
GROWN big and burly over the years, New Jersey's industrial real estate market shows signs that it might barrel through the current recession in reasonably good health.
 Manufacturing is declining in the state, with 25,000 jobs lost in 2001 and Ford's Edison assembly plant to close by the end of 2004. The amount of industrial space available for sublease doubled last year to 7 million square feet and continues to pile up. 
 Still, other significant factors point to stability in the country's third-largest industrial real estate market, analysts and brokers say.
"The real estate community remains cautiously optimistic," Cushman & Wakefield said in its year-end report. The company's market experts made a case for positive outlook based on strength displayed throughout 2001 in the warehouse and distribution lease market; they also identified upbeat trends with apparent staying power. 
One healthful shift cited in the report is a move toward bulking up -- bigger companies involved in bigger transactions around the state. Developers with a national presence and solid reputations are on the scene, and three contracts for more than 500,000 square feet were signed in 2001. They involved a 928,000-square-foot distribution center under construction for Volkswagen; Pearson Education's lease of 886,826 square feet at Rockefeller Group Foreign Trade Zone, also under construction; and Keystone Property Trust's purchase of an 812,739-square-foot high-bay building.
The three top deals were all in Cranbury, at Exit 8A off the New Jersey Turnpike. But they involved various types of businesses and facilities, and analysts say this typifies another emerging strength of the market: diversity.
In addition, market experts cite the state's willingness to keep improving on the natural advantage of its geography -- a location between the major markets in New England and the South -- by upgrading roads, rails and waterways. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, for example, is making final plans for dredging port channels to handle increased freight. And because of growth at Exit 8A, a bus route from Trenton was recently established to help get workers to the site.
Labor shortages were a drawback in the New Jersey market in 1999 and 2000. But in 2001, unemployment rose sharply. In that dismal statistic, brokers can see new opportunity to woo companies looking for workers.
The industrial market's patterns are fairly consistent statewide, according to fourth-quarter reports issued recently by real estate service companies. If there is a prime specimen representing general vigor, there is general agreement that it is Exit 8A.
The Middlesex County industrial market, containing both the Edison and Exit 8A submarkets, accounted for almost 45 percent of all leasing activity in the state last year. It also accounted for 8 of the 10 top transactions statewide. 
"Bigger is definitely better for everybody," said Stan Danzig, a member of a Cushman & Wakefield brokerage team that handled three of the state's largest deals, all at Exit 8A. "Bigger deals, bigger players -- as the economy gets tight, this is what you need to keep the engine running steady, and this what we are seeing at 8A."
He and other brokers describe the warehouse and distribution market as maturing.
"For a long time, activity at 8A involved local developers who built smaller buildings, on an individual basis," Mr. Danzig said. "Now, it's developers like Opus East, the Rockefeller Group, Prologis, Cabot Industries and Keystone Property Trust. 
"Those local developers who are still active in the market -- like Klatskin, Heller and Matrix -- are building larger projects and-or aligning themselves strategically with national institutions. This, in turn, is attracting larger, national tenants."
Exit 8A's particular attractions include turnpike access, of course, and the availability of huge tracts of undeveloped land suitable for large users. There are other large sites, some even better situated, but many are brownfields, where previous industrial developments left environmental problems that require cleanup.
In 2001, a third of all new construction in northern and central New Jersey took place at 8A: 3.2 million square feet out of a total of 9.5 million square feet. At the same times, the amount of sublease space available at 8A -- 918,908 square feet -- was more than six times what it was at the end of 2000. Over all, available space increased 50 percent at the exit, reaching 4.7 million square feet.
But Mr. Danzig and others said that many new companies had established a presence in the market and that brokers continued to get daily inquiries about space.
The Tommy Hilfiger Corporation is among companies that signed long-term leases at 8A in 2001. The retailer set up warehouse-distribution operations in South Brunswick six years ago. Now, it has leased 443,421 square feet of build-to-suit space for warehousing, distribution and administrative offices in Cranbury. 
Fleming Foods leased a 526,400-square-foot building at Opus East L.L.C.'s Turnpike Crossing, and several distribution companies, including Ryder Integrated Logistics and Carrier Enterprises, also leased space.
JULES NISSIM, one of the Cushman & Wakefield brokers who specialize in properties at 8A, predicted that the market would remain dynamic through a slump.
"If retailing is hurt in a recession," Mr. Nissim said, "food and consumer products might thrive. One's hurt, and another gets stronger. There are recession-proof businesses, too, and we have a whole lot of them at 8A. We have staples, basic foods, vitamins, shoes and affordable products -- knock-down furniture, for example, which should continue to do well in less-good economic times."
Another potential strength booster is the 155-acre Foreign Trade Zone, established by the Rockefeller Group, Mr. Nissim said. Under the provisions of the zone, companies can assemble and manipulate goods duty-free.
There are 19 companies known to be shopping for more than 200,000 square feet of space in New Jersey. Several are seeking to house assembly plants and could reap the special benefits of locating in a trade zone, according to Mr. Nissim.
Close to 1.7 million square feet of space is currently being built on speculation statewide -- and two new speculative structures built at 8A -- Matrix Development's Centerpoint and Keystone's Cranbury West-Phase II -- are vacant. Still brokers remain eager, saying there are plenty of companies that do not have a presence in New Jersey but logically should. The largest sublease spaces available are Costco's 468,055-square-foot building in Raritan Center and the 445,570-square-foot former Seaman's Furniture warehouse in Carteret.
The vacancy rate for existing space is 5.9 percent statewide. In Los Angeles and Chicago -- the only two larger industrial markets in the country -- vacancy rates are more than 2 percentage points higher.
Rental rates for warehouse-distribution space in New Jersey increased a slight 1.8 percent last year, to $5.56 per square foot. Rent in central New Jersey, where Exit 8A is, remained cheaper than northern New Jersey, where the Meadowlands industrial center is. Rents are about $2 per square foot higher in northern New Jersey, according to Cushman & Wakefield's statistics.
There was more construction in 2001 than at any other time in the last decade, with close to 10 million square feet added to inventory. About half of the projects were built on speculation and half build-to-suit.
Less than half the space in the speculative projects was leased up by year-end. The largest completed speculative projects were Heller Construction's 958,446-square-foot building in Edison and the two that remained empty at 8A: Matrix Development's 528,441-square-foot structure in Monroe, and Keystone's new 475,000-square-foot building in Cranbury.
Build-to-suit projects included Seaman's new million-square-foot distribution center and Lifetime Hoan's 550,000-square-foot center, both at Exit 7A, farther south on the Turnpike. Cosmair built a 623,494-square-foot center in South Brunswick. In the Meadowlands, buildings were completed for Comdisco in Carlstadt and for Corporate Express Office Products and Lantis Eyewear at Harmon Cove Industrial Park in Secaucus. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Julie Nachamkin, Steve Elman, Jules Nissim and Stan Danzig of Cushman & Wakefield at Turnpike Crossing. (Dith Pran/The New York Times) Map of New Jersey highlights surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RECESSION (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (75%); LABOR SHORTAGES (72%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (70%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); HARBORS & PORTS (66%); PORT AUTHORITIES (61%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (50%) REAL ESTATE; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WAREHOUSES; LABOR; FINANCES 

COMPANY: PEARSON PLC (67%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (64%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); PEARSON EDUCATION INC (55%); KEYSTONE PROPERTY TRUST (54%)

ORGANIZATION: VOLKSWAGEN OF AMERICA INC; PEARSON EDUCATION; KEYSTONE PROPERTY TRUST 

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (67%); PSO (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (67%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (67%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (64%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (64%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (54%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



796 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Surviving a Bear Market 

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

DATELINE: PURCHASE 

 BODY:
JUST days after the Westchester Symphony Orchestra announced that it was shutting down immediately, the county's other symphonic orchestra, the Westchester Philharmonic, played to a nearly sold-out house in the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, in the midst of a snowstorm.
 And while the Westchester Symphony did not come up with half of its final $100,000 operating budget and had just 350 season ticket subscribers, the Westchester Philharmonic has an annual operating budget of $1.4 million, 1,700 season ticket subscribers and an endowment of $450,000. 
 The 78-year-old Westchester Symphony was not alone in its troubles.
"Every orchestra is a nonprofit," said Paul Meecham, general manager of the New York Philharmonic, "and they are all always skirting the line between adventurous but not too adventurous programming." 
That balancing act, combined with a slow economy and the hesitancy of younger generations to embrace symphonic music, creates what might be described as a bear market for Brahms. 
In recent months, the Toronto and St. Louis Symphonies have had serious financial troubles. And while the New York Philharmonic is not making cuts, Mr. Meecham said: "We are being very careful, and it's not just about Sept. 11. We knew we were entering a recession before that." 
Mr. Meecham, who lives in Hastings, said "developing a niche" was essential in a small market like Westchester. The Westchester Philharmonic, he said, "was just doing it that little bit better." He added, "They are well-tuned to what the county needs."
Mr. Meecham particularly praised the Philharmonic's mix of offerings for both adults and children. 
"Paul Lustig Dunkel is also a very good conductor," he said, "and he's attracted a good level of solo artists. They have good public relations and are getting coverage. They're on the way up and are being noticed." 
In recent years, the Westchester Philharmonic has commissioned Melinda Wagner's Pulitzer Prize winning concerto for flute and orchestra and won the Leonard Bernstein Award for Educational Programming. 
Mr. Dunkel, who is also the orchestra's music director, said his basic strategy was "to mix it up, like crop rotation."
"People say they love the tried and true," he said, "but you must mix it with something they haven't heard. Beware the conductor who specializes in Beethoven and nothing else." 
He added that a big reason the Westchester Philharmonic survives, while the Westchester Symphony did not, was that the Philharmonic was founded 18 years ago as a professional orchestra, while the Symphony made a shift over the two last decades from an amateur operation to a professional one. Such midstream shifts, he said, confuse musicians as well as sponsors.
Thomas Casten, a founder of the Philharmonic and its first board chairman, said he did not hesitate to start the symphony as a professional one, mostly because he did not know how much work that would entail. 
"Mercifully," he said, while at a reception before last weekend's performance, "I was clueless as to what it would take. We all thought we would give 50 to a 100 bucks and get the thing going." 
Mr. Casten, who would go on to become C.E.O. and president of Trigen Energy Corporation in White Plains and then the chairman and C.E.O. of Private Power LLC in Oak Brook, Ill., came from an entrepreneurial background and was willing to lead the charge. 
"I told them I would be the chairman and take all the credit and they would do all the work," he said. 
In the early years, much of that work involved money. It still does.
Dick Dannenberg, the current treasurer, explained that two-thirds of the operating budget must come from fund raising, a process that gets no easier over time.
"It is difficult, just difficult," he said. "For some reason classical music appeals to the elderly and -- for some reason -- the elderly die off." 
Elaine Carroll, the Philharmonic's executive director, described the Philharmonic's financial footing as "overall healthy" while taking note of the fund-raising challenges ahead.
"Texaco, Ceiba-Geigy, Nestle, Phillip Morris and Nynex were all our sponsors and they all moved from Westchester," she said. "And for every Texaco, you need 15 to 20 smaller companies."
But worry was not in attendance last weekend, when the Westchester Philharmonic put on Music America, its 10th annual concert in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. This year's was the first full program of American jazz, with proceeds benefiting Westchester-based organizations, like the Creative Response to Conflict and the Westchester Holocaust Commission, that are dedicated to the principles of Dr. King. Soon after the program began, Mr. Dunkel spoke from the stage.
"When you leave here,"' he promised, alluding to the snow outside, "you're going to melt everything in your path." 
The nearly full house laughed, clapping for more. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Westchester Philharmonic, with Paul Lustig Dunkel, music director and conductor of the orchestra, in concert at the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College last weekend. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



797 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: COUNTY LINES; 
A Horseman's Hunch

BYLINE:  By MAREK FUCHS

 BODY:
FRANK McCAHEY, a horseman with a pacemaker, can feel luck's turn. Mr. McCahey, a 44-year-old Irvington resident, trains harness horses, though he's quick to point out that he's never handled a Dan Patch. 
 "I train cheap horses," Mr. McCahey said. 
 His favorite ever was one he bought for $700 in Ohio.
"He came to me looking so bad, like he was about to die," he said the other day at the barn at Yonkers Raceway. "But I got him to win a race." 
Through the more than 10 years of the fainting spells and dizziness that came with his heart condition, Mr. McCahey, who grew up in the Inwood section of Manhattan, has raced horses all over, but he loves Yonkers Raceway the best. It's a place that has lured him all his life and one that has a fabled place in the county's history.
Westchester, after all, is a land of ample money, not lost glory. Since the 1970's, when Mr. McCahey's father began to take him to Yonkers Raceway, almost every community in the county has seen a steady march of bigger homes, spruced-up stores and snappier cars. But in those same years, Yonkers Raceway has done nothing but steadily fade into an economic Palookaville. 
Yonkers Raceway used to draw 40,000 people on weekends, 25,000 during the week, and when Mr. McCahey's father would place bets for him, he'd have to get on line well before post time. 
"And all around you, people would be wearing big fur coats and big jewelry," remembered Mr. McCahey. "Mickey Rivers would come, Thurman Munson, Jack Klugman. You'd always be saying, hey, there goes so and so." 
Today, of course, business is tepid at best. On a recent Friday night, the crowd numbered in the hundreds and there were no lines at the betting windows, even a minute before post time. Not one person was preening in jewelry and furs, but several were scouring the floor for dropped tickets. 
It was on the heels of the heady days that Mr. McCahey graduated from Lehman College and then, realizing what he missed, went on to get an advanced degree -- from the Lou Miller School of Harness Racing at Roosevelt Racetrack on Long Island, which has since closed. (Mr. McCahey still sees his favorite professor, Radar, a trainer who now works at Yonkers Raceway.) 
After starting out as a certified groomer, Mr. McCahey eventually became a trainer. But by then, crowds and purses had started to dwindle, felled by competition from the Meadowlands, Atlantic City, Indian Casinos and the Off Track Betting Corporation. 
Out of a need for income, Mr. McCahey became a postal police officer and jogged his horses in off hours. Then came the worst faint ever. "My blood pressure was 50 over 30 and my pulse was 40. My chart basically said I was dead." 
After endless tests, he was given a diagnosis of vasovagal syncope, the same reflex that caused President Bush to faint when the pretzel was lodged in his throat. In Mr. McCahey's case, however, there is no defined cause. It can happen at any time. 
Today, though, Mr. McCahey looks to the future with excitement, thanks to both his pacemaker and video slot machines. 
In September, to raise money in this economic downturn, the New York State Legislature approved a law allowing video slot machines in racetracks, including Yonkers. 
Carolyn Hapeman, a spokeswoman for the New York Lottery, which is overseeing the installation and management of the slot machines, said that pending appeals of the law and assuming no other hiccups, the slot machines should be in use at the end of this year or the beginning of next year. 
Such slot machines have been a huge boon to long dormant tracks in other states, such as Dover Downs in Delaware. In fact, many of the horsemen at Yonkers feel that there is just one wild card left. 
"Trump," said the trainer and jockey Ian Kaufman as he rubbed down a horse in the cold of a recent Saturday morning. "The man is raising a big stink." Donald J. Trump, who owns casinos in Atlantic City, is fighting the expansion of gambling here. Commenting on the appeals process, which is ongoing, Jay Goldberg, counsel to Mr. Trump, said the chance of video slot machines ending up in the state was "Zero." 
But Mr. McCahey is hopeful, ready to buy as many horses as his savings will allow the moment the law survives its final appeal. "Yonkers Raceway will be the place to go back to," he insisted. "You'll see." 
And in this particular economic age -- after the Internet mania, considering the Enron debacle -- why should a horseman's hunch be a long shot? 
The horseman nods as they're off on the half-mile track. "This is where the money will be," he said. "And you always want to be where the money is." 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nancy Doniger) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); HORSE RACING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (89%); GAMING (78%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); CASINOS (69%); HISTORY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



798 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: OPINION; 
The Island's Economic Issues

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW T. CROSSON; Matthew T. Crosson, a Huntington resident, is president of the Long Island Association, the Island's largest business organization.

 BODY:
LONG ISLAND'S $150 billion economy is a revenue engine for New York State. Last year, Long Island gained 5,400 jobs while the state lost nearly 95,000 jobs. Taken together, the only other metro areas with net employment growth -- Westchester, Rockland and Albany -- gained fewer than half the jobs Nassau and Suffolk did.
 The revenue Long Island produces for state coffers helps support New York City and struggling upstate regions. But like any engine, the Island's economy requires maintenance to keep running smoothly. We face a variety of issues that should be addressed this year by Governor Pataki and the Legislature. The Long Island Association will focus on the following seven issues: 
 AFFORDABLE HOUSING -- Before the end of its current session, the State Legislature should definitively address the issue of state and regional legislation to ensure sufficient affordable housing on Long Island. The lack of affordable housing is the Island's most challenging economic issue. Local solutions to the problem have not produced enough affordable housing to meet the region's needs. Census data have shown that as many as 40 percent of Long Island rental and mortgaged homeowner properties are "unaffordable" under the federal definition. The only realistic alternative may be state and regional legislation requiring local municipalities to mandate that new housing projects contain a meaningful proportion of affordable housing. Massachusetts has had such a law for 30 years.
EDUCATION -- The state's general operating aid formula for school districts should be amended to include a cost of living adjustment. It is more expensive to educate a child in downstate New York because of regional cost differences. According to the Board of Regents, $1 in education aid is worth only 66 cents on Long Island and in New York City. If a cost-of-living factor had been applied just to the $1 billion of new aid added by the state in 2000, Long Island would be getting $300 million more, avoiding or offsetting further school tax increases. 
HIGH-TECH DEVELOPMENT -- $5 million should be earmarked by the state for the Millennium Centers for Convergent Technologies in the next state fiscal year. Long Island already is one of the state's most technology intensive regions. The most important -- and the most cost-effective -- high technology initiative on Long Island is the Millennium Centers for Convergent Technologies, which will bring together electronics, information technology and biotechnology in one research program, helping hundreds of companies across the Island.
EMERGENCY PLANNING -- The state should appropriate $3 million to allow Long Island's county and town governments to fashion an integrated, regionwide emergency response plan. Currently, the emergency response plans that do exist are outdated and not fully integrated into a regional plan.
PROMOTING TOURISM -- State law should be amended to ensure that Long Island receives its fair share of tourism promotion funds. Tourism is Long Island's largest industry, attracting more than 20 million visitors each year and bringing into the region more than $4.3 billion. Currently, state tourism promotion funds are distributed to regional tourism agencies on the basis of the number of counties in the tourism region, not on the basis of population or the number of visitors. As a result, Long Island gets 7 percent of those funds despite having 18 percent of the population and an even larger share of tourists.
BUS SYSTEMS -- The Nassau and Suffolk bus systems should receive their fair share of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority funds collected from regional taxes. Long Island's bus systems are essential to the region's economic vitality. The state currently collects an estimated $80 million in taxes from residents of Long Island that are used to operate the M.T.A. system. None of those funds goes to either of the bus systems, which already has led to service cutbacks and may lead to fare increases in both counties. That is unfair. Long Island's bus systems should get their fair share of existing M.T.A. tax revenues.
L.I.E. CONSTRUCTION -- The Long Island Expressway fourth-lane construction project should be accelerated by two years. Construction of the fourth lane of the L.I.E. from Exit 40 to the Cross Island Parkway at Exit 30 is the most important transportation project under way on Long Island. Currently, the project is scheduled for completion in 2004. Existing transportation capital funds should be rescheduled so that the completion date of the project can be moved to 2002.
Governor Pataki's annual message to the Legislature contained many points of good news for Long Island, including the retention of tax cuts, and some interesting economic development ideas that we expect to be fleshed out later. We hope to work with the governor, Majority Leader Bruno, Speaker Silver and the Long Island delegation to see that these other seven issues also are addressed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COST OF LIVING (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (66%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (64%); TAX LAW (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (61%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (61%); CENSUS (54%); TOURISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND ASSOCIATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



799 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1213 words

HEADLINE: IN PERSON; 
Hitting Ground Zero Running

BYLINE:  By JILL P. CAPUZZO

DATELINE: EDISON 

 BODY:
THE first task Jane M. Kenny was handed was to oversee the clean-up effort at the World Trade Center.
 On her second day, Ms. Kenny stood by while her boss, Christie Whitman, disclosed her decision as head of the Environmental Protection Agency to pursue a $500 million dredging of the Hudson River two decades after General Electric plants dumped PCB's into the river. 
 You might say Ms. Kenny -- the new regional administrator for the federal Environmental Agency -- has her hands full. While she has not yet visited all the region's outposts, Ms. Kenny has logged a good deal of time in New York and in her home state of New Jersey. As recently as last week she visited a Superfund site in Manville, where a creosote removal project was underway, before stopping by the agency's 205-acre campus in Edison. 
On the grounds are the region's science labs as well as both the state and federal emergency response divisions. Within an hour of the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center, the environmental agency's emergency response team was at the site.
Since taking the job, the 50-year-old administrator has visited the trade center site several times, and each time, she says, she is humbled by what she sees. "My first tour of the World Trade Center was in a golf cart, going around the perimeter to see where the monitoring and wash sites were," she said. "The people were working nonstop, completely immersed in what they were doing. It was an extraordinary introduction to the people at E.P.A."
Her job includes running the decontamination wash stations and monitoring air and water from samples taken in New York and North Jersey as the debris from the Sept. 11 attacks is cleared away.
Kathy Callahan, a 30-year veteran of the agency and the acting head of the region before Ms. Kenny arrived, described her successor's early tenure as "a baptism by fire," but said she has been adept at "cutting right to the heart of issues."
A self-described policy hound, Ms. Kenny found her way into government while working toward a Ph.D. in English literature at Rutgers. The Kean administration was looking for a writer at the time so she took the job, and it wasn't long before the government bug bit her. She later assumed the post of cabinet secretary under Gov. Thomas H. Kean, and following a stint in private business during the administration of Gov. Jim Florio, was brought back on board with the Whitman transition team. Mrs. Whitman first appointed her as chief of policy and planning, and in 1996 gave her the cabinet post at Community Affairs.
Her close affiliation with Ms. Whitman is what has at least one environmentalist concerned. Jeff Tittel, executive director of the New Jersey Sierra Club, called Ms. Kenny a "loyalist" to the former governor. "She's a strong leader and very competent, but she's more of a political person than a policy person, who's there to carry out the wishes of Governor Whitman," he said.
Ms. Kenny talks a lot about balancing the needs of the economy with a concern for the environment. In her years in Community Affairs she also learned the value of inclusion when making decisions. She cites the state's sustainable housing plan as an example of bringing together such disparate groups as developers, affordable housing advocates and utility companies to come up with a program to build affordable, energy-efficient housing. The program was cited as a national model.
"Those same kinds of integrated partnerships have to happen at E.P.A." Ms. Kenny said. "So much in the environment -- the easy penalties, the easy victories -- are over. Now it's much more subtle. You have to figure out how to bring the 'enemies' to the table to work out an agreement."
Born in Jersey City to a career military officer man and a school administrator, Ms. Kenny has a particular affinity for urban issues. She pushed for the state takeover of Camden and was chairwoman of the state's Brownfields Task Force, expertise that should serve her well now that President Bush has signed a $1.2 billion industrial clean-up bill.
Anthony Cancro, who took over as acting commissioner of Community Affairs after Ms. Kenny left, said her efforts on behalf of distressed communities, especially Camden, were among her greatest legacies.
"She always tried to look at things from a global perspective," Mr. Cancro said. "It wasn't just about a building, but what was going on in the neighborhood, the community, the town, the region."
Her biggest fan may be Mrs. Whitman, who said that though Ms. Kenny was hesitant about accepting the last two jobs she offered her, she "ends up loving them."
"She can be tough as nails when she needs to be, but she does it from a basis of knowledge and respect for the people she's dealing with," Mrs. Whitman said.
Ms. Kenny's style of leadership has not only been recognized by her boss. Her office in Edison is filled with plaques she hasn't had time to hang. In 2000 and 2001, she was named one of Governing Magazine's nine Public Officials of the Year, received Good Housekeeping's Women in Government Award and was among five public officials to receive the National Public Service Award.
Not that she particularly stands out in her own family of high achievers. One sister is a superior court judge, and the other an assistant school superintendent while her brother is a partner in a law firm.
Mr. Cancro, who worked with Ms. Kenny at Community Affairs, said her new job was a good fit because "when you talk to Jane Kenny, you see she's a real preservationist, an environmentalist at heart."
Ms. Kenny enjoys hiking, canoeing and biking with her husband and three children, and a few years back participated in the state's bear-tagging program. Her husband, Greg Myer, a software developer, has created an elaborate system of energy-saving light sources in their home in Highland Park, and she drives a Mercury Sable but mostly takes public transportation to work. She's on a waiting list for an energy hybrid car and has ordered similar cars for her department."
"We're all responsible," she said. "What kind of light bulbs do you use, what kind of car do you drive?" she said. 
She is quick to point out, however, that these are personal choices and balks at the notion of being too liberal in an administration not always recognized for taking the most progressive environmental stands.
"I'm not so sure it's a question of liberal or not," she said. "For me it's just intuitive personal behavior."
Among her priorities, Ms. Kenny hopes to visit the many Superfund sites in her region. New Jersey leads the nation with 111 such contaminated sites, while New York has 87 and Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands 10.
The environmental issue she cites as New Jersey's most challenging -- the dredging of the state's harbors to meet the increasing demands of the shipping industry -- is an example of trying to balance the needs of industry with protecting the environment. And while recognizing the increased powers her new job gives her, Ms. Kenny is not ready to rattle her saber just yet.
"You have to have the authority, to have that big stick, but rather than waving that stick, maybe you should stand behind the door and throw out some carrots," she said. "Then, when everyone comes to eat the carrots, you say 'Hey, let's talk.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jane M. Kenny, left, in the Edison campus of the Environmental Protection Agency, where World Trade Center samples are tested. (Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); SUPERFUND (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); LITERATURE (60%); WRITERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 



800 of 970 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 27, 2002
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: THE GUIDE 

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES

 BODY:
The Economy of Museums
Major museums, as any regular museumgoer can testify, have changed into more commercial enterprises in recent years. The need for such changes will be discussed today at 3 p.m. by Thomas Krens, director of the Guggenheim Museums Worldwide.
 Mr. Krens, as director of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation, oversees the five Guggenheim museums: two in New York and the others in Venice, Berlin and Bilbao. 
 He has been responsible for increasing aggregate attendance at the Guggenheim museums from 450,000 in 1990 to three million today. 
"The Art of the Motorcycle," was the most popular exhibition at the New York Guggenheim in all its 61 years.
Mr. Kren's illustrated slide lecture titled "The Art Museum in the 21st Century" will take place in the Quick Center for the Arts at Fairfield University. 
Tickets are $15. Information: (203) 254-4010. 

Jazz and More Jazz
Jazz takes center stage at the Ridgefield Symphony Orchestra concert on Saturday.
The conductor Sidney Rothstein has engaged the Western Jazz Quartet, consisting of Trent Kynaston, saxophonist; Tom Knific, bassist; Stephen Zegree, pianist, and Tim Froncek, drummer, for two distinctive works.
Bolling's "Suite for Chamber Orchestra and Jazz Piano Trio," keeps the orchestra in a classical mode while the trio handles the jazz. But Nash's "Synchronicity" is jazz all the way for all players. The Western Jazz Quartet, is a resident faculty ensemble at Western Michigan University's School of Music. 
Jazz in other permutations wrought by individual composers makes up the rest of the program as well: Ravel's "Five O'Clock Fox Trot," Stravinsky's "Ragtime," Shostakovitch's "Tahiti Trot," excerpts from Bernstein's "On the Town" and Gershwin's "An American in Paris."
The concert begins at 8 p.m. in the high school auditorium. 
Information: (203) 438-3889. Tickets are priced from $20 to $35.

Japanese Printmaking
Before spending the last 10 years as an art teacher in the Greenwich Public Schools and the Silvermine School of Art, Margot Bittenbender lived for 12 years in Singapore, Bangkok, Japan and Thailand. The experience changed her perception of the visual world and her method of producing art.
An exhibition of the results opens on Wednesday at Art/Place in Southport, revealing her use of the techniques of Japanese print making, particularly intaglio prints.
The exhibition remains on view through Feb. 24 at 400 Center Street in the westbound train station. Visiting hours are Wednesday through Sunday from noon to 4:30 p.m. A reception is scheduled next Sunday from 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.

Music and Drama
The circumstances that brought three unlikely people together will be played out in drama and music today in one of Chamber Music Plus's Parallel Portraits.
A friendship between Mozart, a pianist and composer named Maria Theresa von Paradis and Dr. Franz Anton Mesmer, the developer of the theory and practice called mesmerizing or hypnotism, developed when Mozart brought the young woman to Dr. Mesmer's Viennese clinic for treatment of her blindness.
Ron Liebman portrays the doctor and Jessica Walters plays the role of Maria. Sanda Schuldmann, pianist; Priscilla Gale, soprano; and Alisa Nakashian-Holsberg, glass harmonicist, will provide the music.
It's at 2 p.m. in the Wadsworth Atheneum Theater on 600 Main Street in Hartford. Admission is $25 or $35. Information: (860) 278-7148.

Art of Pain
Dr. Mathew H. M. Lee, director of the Kathryn Walter Stein Chronic Pain Laboratory and a professor at the Howard A. Rusk Institute of New York University's School of Medicine, is also an artist of sorts.
His exhibition opening at Wisdom House in Litchfield will be marked by his lecture, "The Artful Science of Pain," on Saturday at 3 p.m.
The exhibition is titled "Thermographic Images," a display of infrared-camera images created in collaboration with Nam June Pak, the noted video artist, who was apparently the first to use Thermography as an art form.
The pictures are vibrantly colorful, taking their hues from the surface temperature of various parts of the body. Pain alters the image by reducing the flow of blood, making certain areas cooler in temperature and color.
"Thermographic Images," processed in the chronic pain laboratory of Mount Sinai-N.Y.U. Medical Center, may be seen through April 7 at Wisdom House's Louise Trichet Gallery on 229 East Litchfield Road. A reception will be held Saturday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is free but reservations are required for the lecture. Information: (860) 567-3163.
 ELEANOR CHARLES

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas Krens, director of Guggenheim Museums Worldwide, will give a lecture today at the Quick Center for the Arts at Fairfield University. (pg. 8); Margot Bittenbender's "Kabuki Dolls," an intaglio print, is part of an exhibition currently at Art/Place in Southport.; One of the pieces in Dr. Mathew H. M. Lee's exhibition, "Thermographic Images," a display of infrared-camera images at the Wisdom House in Litchfield. (pg. 15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); JAZZ & BLUES (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSIC (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); DANCE (73%); THEATER & DRAMA (73%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (73%); TRAINS (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (79%); JAPAN (79%); THAILAND (79%); FRANCE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2002 

 
