

801 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Money and Metaphysics: New-Age Wall Street

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
WALL STREET has traditionally been home to bulls and bears. But lately, more extraordinary beings are finding their way to the trading rooms and executive suites of the city's financial community. These are the psychics, hypnotists and astrologers who bring an extra dimension to the already arcane science of investing money.
Call it a foolish fad, but believers claim that billions of dollars are managed by people who consult planetary movements in advance; and some 27.5 million Americans review the stars to make decisions, according to a 1990 Gallup poll. No one has calculated how many do so for investments, but a mini-industry has emerged around New-Age Wall Street. Consider: A hotel near the stock exchanges is offering a new guest service, a tarot card reader. At the Wall Street Hypnosis Center, 165 William Street, a dozen or so traders visit monthly to keep their unconscious minds honed for split-second decisions. And at the New York Astrology Center, Eighth Avenue at 37th Street, computers and stars are used for investment advice. 
 The Securities and Exchange Commission, while hardly endorsing metaphysics, finds nothing intrinsically wrong with such unorthodox means of analysis, if fully disclosed, says Michael Jones, a spokesman.
As J. P. Morgan once intoned: "Millionaires don't hire astrologers. Billionaires do."
 
You . . . Are . . . Getting . . . Richer
 The hypnotist's words flow like a stream, as New-Age music fills the book-lined room. "You're comfortably embraced by the clouds, floating and drifting, floating and drifting," Ruth Roosevelt purrs. "You get a perspective up here. You see opportunities you didn't realize you had."
Ms. Roosevelt, founder of the Wall Street Hypnosis Center, helps clients quit smoking, lose weight -- and make investment choices.
She continues: "Perhaps you see a trading pattern that needs to be changed."
She suggests to her client, Damon Vickers, chief equity strategist for Equigrowth Advisors, an investment company with $15 million under management, that he may find solutions in his subconscious. She says a new hedge fund he is establishing will be doing gangbuster business in a year's time.
"You've been making the money, because you've been disciplined," she says, seeking to underline one of his main trading goals. "You've reined in your emotions, so you have clarity of thought and purpose."
Ms. Roosevelt, who charges $100 an hour, began her practice two years ago, after a long career as a trader, most recently at Prudential Securities, where she was a vice president. She switched to hypnosis, she says, because of a fascination with the mind.
"There is very little I don't know about the emotions a trader can have," said Ms. Roosevelt, who studied hypnosis at, among other places, the New York Training Institute for Neuro-Linguistic Programming.
Ms. Roosevelt sees trading as akin to primitive humans dealing with physically dangerous situations. "At the moment of truth, is it fight or flight, attraction or retrenchment, fear or greed?" she asked. The goal is to bring control and composure to an overpowering situation. This comes from the unconscious, she says.
In practice, this means some traders have to learn to curb their urge to gamble, and let profits run. Others have to pull the trigger and take a sensible risk. Some have developed an aversion to picking up a phone and need to regress to earlier situations -- say, calling a girl (or a boy) for a date.
"The trance enhances their power," she said. "It will enable them to have greater control over themselves or other people."
To outsiders, it can seem a lot like losing control. Mr. Vickers thinks the benefits are such that he doesn't care if his customers know about his hypnosis. "If it bothers people, I don't want them as customers," he said. "I can't be anybody but myself."
 
 
More Towels? Tarot?
 Barrie L. Dolnick is the resident conjurer at the glossy Millenium Hotel at 55 Church Street. Just call the concierge and Ms. Dolnick, a 33-year-old former advertising executive in London and New York, will appear with tarot cards, charms and astrological charts.
Ms. Dolnick turned to conjuring full time because it had already proved profitable part time. At a rate of $100 an hour, she sees more than 200 regular clients in her Union Square office, in addition to those at the Millenium.
The other day, an insurance executive arrived at her hotel office.
"You're good at money, you can accumulate it, you want to accumulate it," Ms. Dolnick said after examining his astrological chart and having him flip a few tarot cards. "There's nothing wrong with that."
Then she had him flip three more cards, saw something nice and announced with a smile, "I can see money in the near future."
The man told her that a deal he had been pursuing for months was at a critical juncture. "Only today, it reached another level on the road to consummation," he said.
Ms. Dolnick told him to sign contracts between Feb. 12 and March 6, with an auspicious time for him being Feb. 27, when there is a full moon. He asked for some market direction. She said that European markets were stronger than those of developing nations. He should eschew blue-chip stocks for smaller company issues with greater growth potential. "You will gain much," she said.
The insurance man thanked her. She smiled and said, "Take two meditations and call me in the morning."
 
Trading by the Stars
 Henry Weingarten assumes he disappoints those who meet him. "I'm sorry, we don't wear Merlin hats anymore," he said. "Real astrologers sit by computers all day."
With the help of intricate computer programs that allow the inclusion of far more heavenly data, Mr. Weingarten says he can predict that the soaring stock market is due for a crash by Feb. 15. That, of course, is what he also foretold for August, September or October, and then November. "There's a rule in forecasting," he said with a laugh. "If you can't predict, predict often."
Mr. Weingarten has made some correct calls. In 1990, Barron's compared press releases the publication had received from Mr. Weingarten with what actually happened later on. Mr. Weingarten had foreseen the 1990 Tokyo stock market plunge, the Dow Jones average reaching 3,000 and the American economy's dip into a deeper recession.
Mr. Weingarten, 46, started up his New York Astrology Center while studying mathematics as a junior at New York University, where he has since taught adult-education courses in computer science. Today his center has six employees; about 15,000 people, he says, pass through each year, buying books and computer programs or having charts made; 100 high-net-worth people regularly seek his investment advice. The fee: $500 to $1,000 a consultation.
Mr. Weingarten insists that even the biggest institutions use astrological data but refuse to have their names associated with it. "There are billions of dollars both influenced and managed by astrologers," he said. "If you knew some of the firms, you'd be shocked." He declines to name any.
Last year, Mr. Weingarten began serving as executive astrological analyst for the American Futures Group, a national commodity trading firm. "There are people who trade commodities and believe strongly in astrology," said George Perk, president of American Futures. He stressed that astrology is invoked only at a customer's request.
Mr. Weingarten is now in the final stage of becoming licensed as a commodity trader, which will allow him to set up investment funds based on the stars. "The edge I've got is that I know certain things other people don't know," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ruth Roosevelt, founder of the Wall Street Hypnosis Center, working with Damon Vickers, chief equity strategist for the investment company Equigrowth Advisors. Barrie L. Dolnick, the resident conjurer at the Millenium Hotel, reading tarot cards for a Wall Street trader. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times); At the New York Astrology Center, Henry Weingarten consults the stars and computers to advise on investments. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (51%); PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES INC (51%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION (SEC) SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS; HYPNOSIS; ASTROLOGY; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (90%); BONDS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); SMOKING CESSATION (68%); LINGUISTICS (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994



802 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
Copeland's Cooks On 125th Street

BYLINE: By EMILY M. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Copeland's, one of Harlem's best-known restaurants, is planning to open a branch on 125th Street, a thoroughfare that is long on bustle and short on dining opportunities.
The owner, Calvin Copeland, started his small dynasty with a fried-chicken outlet on West 145th Street in 1970, eventually turning it into a cafeteria. In 1981, he expanded next door with a sleek restaurant that is still serving everything from chitterlings and pigs' feet to champagne. 
 Mr. Copeland said his new restaurant, Copeland's Country Kitchen, would open in late April at 209 West 125th Street, just off Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard. It will have a cafeteria, a takeout counter, a bakery and a private dining room for catering.
"It's going to be a first-class cafeteria," Mr. Copeland said. "I don't think there's anything like it anywhere in the city."
Mr. Copeland said he had planned the new dining spot about two years ago. He was attracted to 125th Street by the revival of tourist draws like the Apollo Theater, as well as by the steady stream of workers who had few options for lunch or dinner.
He tried to open a restaurant near the Harlem Meer in the northern part of Central Park in the late 1980's, but he said the recession ruined his plans.
The new Copeland's is part of a slow wave of change for renowned Harlem restaurants: Wells restaurant, on Adam Clayton Powell at 132d Street, reopened last year after being closed for eight years, and Sylvia Woods, the owner of Sylvia's on Lenox Avenue near 126th Street, opened Sylvia's Also banquet hall up the block two years ago.
The new restaurant was welcome news to Anette Johnston, who just began working as a secretary on 125th Street a few months ago.
"It seems like there's nowhere to eat except McDonald's," she said on her way to work last week. "I thought there would be plenty of good food, but most of the places are just dingy."
 E.M.B.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: COPELAND'S RESTAURANT (NYC) APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (55%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COPELAND'S RESTAURANT (NYC) APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (55%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARLEM (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (78%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, EMILY M

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994



803 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CHINATOWN;
Both Sides Battered Over Strike

BYLINE: By Bruce Lambert

 BODY:
In a struggle that has taken on symbolic significance, the lockout at Chinatown's only unionized restaurant is dragging into its sixth month, with both sides battered but resolute.
Every lunch and dinner hour, pickets march at the Silver Palace at 50 Bowery, as they have since management shut them out on Aug. 19. The restaurant, which opened in 1976 as Chinatown's first giant dim sum parlor and banquet hall, continues to discount prices 30 percent to draw customers. 
 To outsiders, Chinatown's more than 300 restaurants are its best-known feature. To insiders, they are a center of community life as well as a major local industry. The restaurants provide work for 7,000 people, many of them immigrants, said Dr. Peter Kwong, director of Asian-American Studies at Hunter College. But the pay is low, hours are long and benefits few.
"If they settle, the contract will send a message that labor relations are going to be forever different in Chinatown," said Stanley Mark, a lawyer at the Asian-American Legal Defense and Education Fund, which helped form the Restaurant Workers Union at the Silver Palace in 1981. "If they don't, it will send a signal that we're moving backwards."
Management says the impasse is destructive. "To us it's just devastating," said Richard Chan, the Silver Palace's executive director. "We are really suffering a lot. Our livelihood is at stake, and 120 jobs." The union members are suffering too. Wing Lam, a union adviser, said its 40 striking members are subsisting on unemployment since losing their jobs as waiters, cart pushers and busboys.
No progress has been made in the sporadic negotiations. Mr. Chan is sticking to his demands to drop health insurance, reduce paid time off and split tips with managers. He argues that the measures are necessary to keep costs competitive and offset the recession. After the old contract expired last February, he eventually imposed the new rules and shut the union out when it refused to accept them.
The union is equally adamant. "It's not just a battle between 40 workers and Silver Palace," Mr. Lam said, "but a question of: Should New Yorkers allow slave labor to continue in Chinatown, with people working 12 to 14 hours a day, seven days a week, being paid below the minimum wage and bosses stealing their tips."
Big labor has neglected Chinatown's workers, Mr. Lam said, and the unaffiliated Silver Palace union does not have the resources to organize other restaurants. Experts on Chinatown like Dr. Kwong say that restaurant workers want improved conditions but -- intimidated by bosses, immigration officials, the English language and their own lack of job skills -- they are watching the Silver Palace warily. So are restaurant owners, who say that unionization would jeopardize the bargain prices that attract diners to Chinatown and make the jobs possible in the first place.
 B.L.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Strikers picketing outside the Silver Palace, Chinatown's only unionized restaurant. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)
 
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SILVER PALACE (RESTAURANT) ASIAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SILVER PALACE (RESTAURANT) ASIAN AMERICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINATOWN (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; STRIKES; LOCKOUTS; UNIONIZATION; LABOR LABOR UNIONS (91%); LOCKOUTS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%); LAWYERS (68%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (67%); DISMISSALS (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994



804 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 11; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: WILLIAMSBRIDGE;
Trying to Freeze Out a Strip Joint

BYLINE: RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
Four months after persuading the owner of a bar in a residential neighborhood not to convert his business into a cabaret presenting nude entertainment, members of Community Board 12 are embroiled in a dispute with another club owner who recently brought in strippers.
The club, near Laconia Avenue on East Gun Hill Road, was a members-only establishment that was called Barclay's Athletic Club. The owner changed its name last fall to New York Vibes and began offering topless entertainment there several nights a week. 
 "If you go east there is a Jehovah's Witness church," said the Rev. Richard Gorman, the chairman of the community board. "If you go west, you hit a day school. Two blocks farther west is Evander Childs High School. The guy is surrounded by churches and schools."
Father Gorman, who is also a history teacher at Cardinal Spellman High School, said that while three other clubs in the neighborhood offer adult entertainment, they are in primarily commercial areas.
In October, the board members persuaded the owner of a club called Silk Stockings, which is situated near New York Vibes in a residential neighborhood on East 233d Street, not to open as a strip club.
"We basically just told him he was hurting the neighborhood's image and himself by doing it and that we'd fight him," Father Gorman said. "He agreed to stop."
But Owen Barclay, the owner of New York Vibes, plans to continue operating it as a strip club until he can make up for earlier losses, said his lawyer, Lance H. Falow. Because of lagging income during the recession, his bank has begun foreclosure proceedings against him, Mr. Falow said.
"He doesn't love this business," Mr. Falow said. "He entered into it because he wants to pay his bills. Financially, he's at his wit's end."
But residents of the neighborhood are determined to fight him, and organized two protests in early January that drew about a dozen people who carried signs in front of the club in the cold, early hours of the morning. They say they will continue to protest every weekend until he converts or closes the club.
"It's amazing," said Father Gorman, "how when economic times get tough people turn to the prurient because they know it will draw in people. But you don't solve one problem by making a problem for someone else."
 R.K.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of Community Board 12 are trying to close down New York Vibes, a bar on East 233d Street that offers nude entertainment. (Clair Yaffa)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; STRIPTEASE RELIGION (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); LAWYERS (68%); FORECLOSURE (63%); 

PERSON: GORMAN, RICHARD (REV)

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994



805 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 6859 words

HEADLINE: Mining the Genome: Big Science as Big Business -- A special report.;
PROFITS AND ETHICS CLASH IN RESEARCH ON GENETIC CODING

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
The Human Genome Project, an international quest to spell out the precise sequence of the three billion letters in the human genetic code, is still more than a decade from completion. But in a rapid blurring of big science and big business, the effort has already created its first millionaires.
One is J. Craig Venter, who as a Federal employee at the National Institutes of Health developed crucial technology for spelling out -- or "sequencing" -- long strands of genetic code. Then, a little more than a year ago, he left to join a venture to commercialize the technology. Now, even before they have a product, Dr. Venter and his backers have raised millions of dollars by selling public shares of stock in their venture, Human Genome Sciences Inc., of Bethesda, Md.
 
Differing Perspectives
 Depending on one's perspective, Dr. Venter and his company typify the ideal link between Government-supported basic science and the entrepreneurial verve necessary for seeing that the fruits of the Human Genome Project make their way into the medical marketplace. But some scientists are uneasy -- ethically and professionally -- with the idea of their colleagues profiting from the research for which the Government has paid. 
 The Human Genome Project is an effort to sequence the DNA in all 100,000 genes in the human body, which doctors hope will someday enable them to treat genetically-based diseases much the way software engineers fix faulty computer programs: by isolating flaws in the code.
"I will be very surprised if we don't see products from some of these companies within four or five years," said Dr. Francis S. Collins, who heads the country's genome effort at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda. He said he had no problems with the entrepreneurial efforts of Federal alumni like Dr. Venter.
But ethics aside, some scientists say they are skeptical of the commercial prospects for the ventures spinning from the five-year-old Human Genome Project. And the commercial recruitment of leading scientists from publicly supported universities and Federally backed genome centers has stirred professional resentment among some geneticists, who argue that the rush to commercialize or patent pieces of the genome project will hinder the greater advances that can come when the scientific community freely shares its discoveries.
"This is a quick and dirty grab -- like the wild West, where everyone was trying to stake a claim," complained one geneticist, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he said he had several friends involved in genome companies. "It's basically people with a lot of human genome money trying to cash in."
The issue is by no means unique to the Human Genome Project. When Herbert Boyer, a biology professor, left the University of California at San Francisco in 1976 to help found Genentech Inc., now a leading biotechnology company, he was harshly and publicly criticized by his fellow faculty members. But the sheer size of the Human Genome Project, expected to cost the Government $3 billion before it is finished, guarantees even greater scrutiny.
"There is a particularly hot light shining on the Genome Project because it is prominent," said Dr. Collins, the director of the project, "and because the level of funding in some cases is so much greater than any single investigator has received in the past."
As for Dr. Venter, whose 766,612 shares of Human Genome Sciences were worth $9.2 million when the stock began trading in late November, and on Friday were worth $13.4 million, based on the stock's price of $17.50 in Nasdaq trading, he said he saw no need to defend his scientific or business ethics. All the work he produced at the National Institutes of Health was published in scientific journals that were available to the public, he said, and he has had little to do with the financing he has received since leaving the Government.
The financing "all had to do with my ideas, and an approach I developed -- a whole new approach to doing the human genome," Dr. Venter said. "The real question is: while at the N.I.H., I discovered 10 percent of the human genes; what happens to these genes if nobody proceeds with them?"
 
Raising Hopes
A Federal Mandate To Find New Cures
 The prospect of mapping the entire human genome had long been the collective pipe dream of the world's geneticists.
But it was not until Congress approved the initial financing for the project in 1988, through the National Institutes of Health and the Department of Energy's national laboratories, that scientists could seriously contemplate assembling the teams of researchers, the laboratory equipment and the supercomputers that the effort would require. And from the beginning, the big numbers surrounding the project lent to it the same aura of celebrity -- and controversy -- as scientific extravaganzas like the $14 billion space station and the $8 billion superconducting supercollider project, which Congress voted last year to stop supporting.
A genome is the sum total of genetic information in a living species, whether the simple genome of a virus or the complex genome of a human being. The goal of the Human Genome Project is to find the precise locations of all the genes on one or another of the 46 human chromosomes -- the packets of genetic information that define a person's physical characteristics. This genetic information is encoded in the chemical DNA, short for deoxyribonucleic acid.
The time-consuming task is gene "sequencing," the process of defining the genes chemically, which for the genome project will mean learning the correct identity and order of all three billion DNA subunits that make up the 100,000 genes in the human body. By sequencing all the human DNA, and studying families for aberrations in the genetic code associated with diseases, geneticists hope to point the way to more accurate diagnostic tests and more potent drugs with fewer side effects.
In 1988, $3 billion seemed like a good estimate of the eventual cost of the 15-year project. The effort is currently receiving about $165 million a year from the Federal Government.
In the United States, the genome project is divided among nine different genome centers at various national laboratories and universities. France, the other recognized world leader in genomics, concentrated its national effort in the Centre d'Etude du Polymorphisme Humain in Paris, commonly known as CEPH. Dr. Daniel Cohen, the director of CEPH, recently announced the first complete, albeit sketchy, map of the human genome. Geneticists in other countries, whether through universities or research institutes, are also at work independently on pieces of the project.
 
Raising Money
Hurry, Don't Miss The 'Disease Genes'
 Kevin J. Kinsella, a venture capitalist with Avalon Ventures, evinces a strike-it-rich giddiness when talking about genomics, as the field is known.
"This is my last biotech deal; this is the crown jewels," he said of the genome company he has helped set up, Sequana Therapeutics Inc. in La Jolla, Calif. He is serving as chairman and chief executive until a full-time management team can be set up.
Sequana, which has already raised $12 million, is negotiating with six large pharmaceutical companies that might be interested in licensing its technologies, he said, and in each case his sales pitch is this: "Can you be competitive in the year 2000 without the disease genes in hand? Unequivocally, no."
With the prospects of exciting new drugs and medical techniques spinning out of the genome project, venture capitalists -- investors who put together pools of money to finance new businesses -- have been busily seeking places to put their dollars. As a result, investments in genome companies by venture capitalists, as well as corporations and stock-market investors, are exceeding the $165 million a year in Federal backing for the genome project.
"This is groundbreaking, not only because of the Government involvement and investment, but because of how quickly and how richly it's been augmented by private investors," said Mark Edwards, president of Recombinant Capital, a research company that tracks biotechology investments.
It was a venture fund called the Healthcare Investment Corporation that staked Dr. Venter $70 million in 1992 to create the Institute for Genomic Research, a nonprofit lab. Separately, Healthcare Investment founded Human Genome Sciences to commercialize the institute's findings, and gave Dr. Venter stock in the company. Although the company is the first of its type to begin selling shares of its stock to the public, it is only one of a dozen human genome companies that have been set up with venture-capital or private funding, including Sequana and Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. of Cambridge, Mass.
With a less aggressive venture capital community abroad, other countries have been slower to commercialize genome research. And so some prominent overseas scientists have allied with American companies. Dr. Cohen of CEPH in France, for example, is a scientific adviser to Millennium.
Despite all the investments, skeptics abound in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, as well as in academia. They note that thousands of gene sequences are already known, and that in addition to the dozen new genome companies, hundreds of other types of biomedical companies have been working on potential drug compounds to exploit that knowledge, but with little to show for it. The entire genome of the virus that causes AIDS has been fully identified, for example, without a cure so far.
While knowing the genetic information underlying a disease is unquestionably better than not knowing it, the doubters question whether genomics justifies the creation of a dozen new companies, or if it is just the latest high-technology fad to wow venture capitalists.
 
Questions From Skeptics
 "As an investor it's a way to make a buck," said David Martin, a former chief scientist at Genentech who is now senior vice president for the Chiron Corporation, a biotechnology company in Emeryville, Calif., that has no direct involvement in genomics.
"I've looked at the business plans of a number of these companies, and I don't understand how they are going to turn it into a real business that sells products," Dr. Martin said. "We're not at a point where we can take a DNA sequence and produce a drug."
But the genome companies contend that they do not need to wait for the project to be completed to begin pursuing drugs or diagnostic procedures. If they can sequence one important human gene -- the gene implicated in hereditary breast cancer, for example -- they say they may be on their way to developing a screening test or therapy.
One technique, called "positional cloning," makes it possible to spell out the sequence of a gene by locating it on a chromosome without knowing its specific biological activity. Studying the genomes of families with known histories of a particular illness, and finding the disparities between their genes and those of healthy people, scientists can locate genetic mutations or deficiencies. Therapies might then be designed to make the necessary alterations to the trouble-causing genetic activity.
Notable among the companies employing this approach is Millennium, which has drawn attention for the stature of its founding scientific advisers -- Eric S. Lander, director of the federally funded Whitehead/M.I.T. Center for Genomic Research in Cambridge, the largest genome center in the United States, and Dr. Cohen, director of France's genome effort. Millennium has attracted venture capitalists including the Mayfield Fund and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which each has a record of picking winners in biotechnology, like Genentech and Amgen Inc. of Thousand Oaks, Calif.
 
Raising Eyebrows
Knowledge Thirst, Profit Hunger

Given his prominent role in the Human Genome Project, Dr. Lander's ties to Millennium have been a selling point for investors, but a cause for some raised eyebrows in the genetics community. Anticipating this reaction before he joined the company's advisory board last year, Dr. Lander said he had sought permission from the National Institutes of Health and received a letter in reply from Dr. Bernadine Healy, then director of the N.I.H., giving him clearance.
Perhaps more to the point, Dr. Lander said all the work done by him and his associates at the Whitehead/M.I.T. genome center was being made public without patents or other limitations, and that Millennium had no prior access to the research findings.
"If you want to dial us up on the Internet, you'll get a complete dump of our data," he said, referring to the ability of anyone to access the center's research using a personal computer, modem and telephone line. "We decided early on that what we are building at the center is not commercial."
Other prominent figures in the genome community who have forged commercial allegiances include Richard Myers and David Cox, who run the Federally financed genome center in Palo Alto, Calif. With Dennis Drayna, a former Genentech researcher, they have formed Mercator Genetics Inc. in nearby Menlo Park.
Meanwhile, Mark Pearson, a member of the Human Genome Project's national advisory board, is also chief executive of the genome company Darwin Molecular Technologies Inc. in Seattle. Leroy Hood, a prominent genome researcher at the University of Washington, has also joined Darwin Molecular.
What concerns some geneticists is that the potential for divided loyalties, combined with the expectations of the big investors financing the genome companies, can create pressures that even the most dispassionate scientist would have trouble resisting.
"The people who are involved should be very clear about their roles, because you can easily find yourself in a conflict of interest -- certainly in a conflict of commitment," said Norton Zinder, professor of molecular genetics at Rockefeller University, who was head of the Human Genome Project's advisory committee from 1988 to June 1991.
Dr. Zinder noted that he was receiving Federal grants in the early 1980's at the same time he was a scientific adviser to Genetics Institute Inc., a biotechnology company in Cambridge, from which he received special founders' shares of stock. But he never considered himself in conflict because he disclosed the commercial relationship to university and Federal officials and served only as an adviser to the company.
"Sometimes, full disclosure is all you want," Dr. Zinder said. "I don't expect people to be saints. I would like a line to be drawn." He said he had written to Dr. Collins at the National Institutes of Health suggesting that clear rules be established to define conflicts of interest in the genome project.
 
Open About Activities
 Dr. Collins, in an interview, said he was satisfied that Dr. Lander and other genome-center directors had been sufficiently open about their various scientific and commercial activities. "Most are trying to focus their basic science effort in the genome center," he said, "and look at the companies as a place to focus on application to specific diseases."
Indeed, some scientists say the profit motive, rather than being a corrupting force, is the surest way to generate real products that could save lives.
"There is no conflict in the underlying societal interest," said Walter Gilbert, a Harvard biochemist who won a Nobel Prize in 1980 for his work in genetics, two years after he had co-founded Biogen Inc. to commercialize his discoveries. The most notable products of the company, also based in Cambridge, include alpha-interferon, which it licenses to the pharmaceutical giant Schering-Plough as a treatment for hepatitis.
Dr. Gilbert is active in genomics, last year co-founding Myriad Genetics Inc. in Salt Lake City. He said he saw plenty of parallels between his earlier mingling of science and business and the issues now swirling around the Human Genome Project.
"A technology is developed in a genome center for the benefit of the country," he said. "It's out there and available. If the technology is never commercialized, the country is worse off."
Now that du Pont had the house, he needed the things to put inside it. Objects pulled du Pont to dealer's shops, and du Pont's money pulled the dealers to his front yard. They would arrive by truck, one of them remembered, and spread their wares across the hillsides. Du Pont bought in such prodigious quantities that the dealers began to call him Mr. Big. He once told the dealer Bernard Levy that the hair on his neck stood up whenever he saw something "wonderful." If du Pont walked into Levy's Madison Avenue shop and saw a fine table -- a table other collectors had overlooked -- he held his arms before him in the manner of Dr. Frankenstein's monster, and his hands began to quiver. "It's mine! It's mine!" he would say. "I'll talk price with you later. I can't talk now. It's mine!" No one sold a great antique without first offering it to him. By the time of his death, in 1969, du Pont had bought nearly 100,000 objects. They filled the 196 rooms at Winterthur.
Experts now consider the proportions of du Pont's chests to be great proportions, the legs of his chairs to be great legs. Dealers feel the same way about things once owned by Israel Sack. When Bill Stahl finds an antique similar to one at Winterthur, his catalogue description will include this fact. Books filled with objects bought by du Pont or Sack line the shelves of dealers who want to sell the best. Although these books are useful, they fail in one important respect. They contain only objects of uniform magnificence. Collectors in the 1940's found themselves wishing for a book that compared great legs to mediocre ones.
Albert Sack, one of Israel's sons, wrote this book in 1950 and entitled it "Fine Points of Furniture." He laid it out with photographs of two or three similar objects on each page. Short captions beneath each photo noted whether he considered a thing "Good" or "Better" or "Best." On one page stood three highboys, all of which looked the same to an untutored observer. Under the "Good" highboy, Albert pointed out that he found the legs "especially clumsy." Under the "Better" highboy, a reader learned that it had "fat knees abruptly tapering into too thin ankles." Albert attributed the "Best" piece to John Goddard of Newport, R.I., and described it as, "a beautifully proportioned example with graceful, well-formed cabriole legs."
Albert Sack wrote this book more than 40 years ago, but its significance remains incalculable. People in the trade refer to the book as "Good, Better, Best," in a way that lets one know they forgot its actual title long ago. It made such an impression on the marketplace that people began to make fun of it, as when they referred to it as "Good, Better and in Stock." Dealers may say snide things about this book, but no great dealer lives without it. When a dealer sees an ordinary object and says of it, "That's 'Better,' " he means to make fun of the trivialization to which Albert Sack's book has reduced the state of his business, while at the same time to describe accurately the object's undoubted fate in the marketplace. "Fine Points of Furniture" became a bible. Here for the first time someone had laid the code out in nice, easy steps. Now a person need not be born the scion of a gunpowder fortune to understand these concepts.
Taste is a curse as well as a blessing. Sack and du Pont have both condemned us even as they have endowed us. Once Alan Miller has shown us Thomas Willing's card table, we will never see another one in quite the same way. We will miss the fat leaves full of rainwater, the tension of the shells and the luxuriant twisting of the vines. Some things will now thrill us, but others will offend us. The appreciation of American furniture has required years to develop. It has taken education and publicity and the weight of staggering sums of money to make such things beautiful.
In 1964, the contents of Phebe Newhall's crate were examined and divided among the heirs of her two children and some near and distant cousins. Her grandson, the one who discovered the crate, chose to bring the card table home with him and to place it in his living room, with its top folded over, as an object not of use but of admiration. Most people who dropped by for gin-and-tonics and a game of bridge, however, could find little in it to admire. "The table was so much more ornate than anything else we had," his wife recalled years later. "A lot of people thought it was too fancy."
The friends who frequented the house preferred the clean lines of 60's modern to the rich carving of Chippendale furniture. But even though the table was not a thing they would bring into their own homes, neither did they mistake it for junk. Money makes some things beautiful, and the card table, they knew, was worth a lot of money. It was valuable because some people desired it for their homes and because museums wanted examples in their American wings. It was valuable because someplace a market existed for it and because out in the world of American furniture -- where the dealers fought and lied and stole things from their friends -- some people could tell a great card table from a good one.
BY THE SPRING OF 1990, the widow of Willing's heir faced a decision. Her husband had died eight years earlier, and the Willing card table had grown very expensive to insure. She did not feel as strongly about the table as her husband had. Her idea of a nice antique rested more in a piece of strawberry pottery that she'd found in the Pennsylvania Dutch country. She had moved into a smallish, two-story French provincial house in a pleasant Philadelphia neighborhood. English and American pottery filled this house, which was also decorated with nautical paintings, scrimshaw and other marine-related memorabilia that had so taken her husband. The Willing card table stood beside the door in her front hall.
Their daughter had a friend at Sotheby's named Barbara Deisroth, who was head of Sotheby's Art Nouveau and Art Deco department. One spring morning in 1990, Deisroth appeared at the door to Bill Stahl's office and said, "It's still there." She lingered somewhat longer than usual and added that her friend's mother might be interested in selling her treasure, she told him. "You ought to go see the table."
When expensive objects appear on the market -- objects like rare Chippendale card tables -- Stahl and his colleague Leslie Keno, head of Sotheby's American furniture department, often find themselves in competition with their chief rivals at Christie's. Just as it can be useful to think of Sotheby's as a place where auctioneers try to be gentlemen, Christie's is sometimes best understood as a place where gentlemen try to be auctioneers. Christie's employs men like Paul Ingersoll and Ralph Carpenter, whose bloodlines run back to the country's early history and who regularly drink Bloody Marys with those whose families have owned Chippendale furniture for a couple of centuries. When a Rhode Island family decided to sell the Nicholas Brown secretary -- the one Christie's auctioned off to Robert Bass for $12.1 million -- a daughter of the family led Stahl to believe that they'd have preferred to sell it through Sotheby's. But Stahl knew he would never get it. The daughter summed up Ralph Carpenter's connections to the family with the question, "What would Uncle Ralph say?"
Since Willing's descendants had decided to negotiate with both houses, Stahl invited some of them to dine with him at an ornate French restaurant called Les Pleiades. Over lunch, he submitted a proposal in which Sotheby's offered to place an estimate of $800,000 to $1.2 million on the table. "I could sense that there was a magic to $1 million," Stahl remembered later. "It was a recurring theme right to the night before the sale."
Though Stahl didn't like to admit it, the competition over masterpieces often came down to a difference in how high the auction house was willing to place its estimates. These estimates can determine the level of an object's reserve price, or the sum below which it will not be sold. In order to secure the Willing card table, Stahl reassessed his earlier figure, and eventually agreed to a reserve of $1 million to $1.5 million. Christie's submitted its own proposal. The daughter later remembered that the firm "was definitely not going to let us have a reserve over $750,000." It was this fact, together with what the daughter considered to be Christie's "waffling," as opposed to Sotheby's "enthusiasm," that determined the fate of Thomas Willing's card table.
So it was that Bill Stahl drove to Philadelphia to pick up the object whose value an inventory might once have recorded at 50 cents, but for which he had recently agreed to get a million dollars.
AT FIVE MINUTES past two on a Saturday afternoon in January, the day Sotheby's has scheduled its sale of the Willing card table, John Marion walks into the sale room. Marion is Sotheby's chairman and chief auctioneer. He wears a finely tailored suit and tasseled loafers, and he has the bearing of a game-show host. His value to Sotheby's owes to his charisma, his social connections and his ability to bring in business, and in 1990 these assets made him worth $460,000 to the firm. Marion has capitalized these assets through his skills on the podium, which can sometimes make the difference of hundreds of thousands of dollars to a sale. When he walks down the center aisle, 150 heads turn in his direction. Everyone stops talking as Marion mounts the great, hooded, mahogany podium.
Standing at one of the six small lecterns before the stage, Leslie Keno holds a telephone to his ear. Bill Stahl stands beside him watching the crowd. Because the card table appears on the cover of the catalogue, and because the commission on this one object might exceed $100,000, its fate will do much to determine the success or failure of all Sotheby's sales this week. To encourage the sale of the table, Keno and Stahl mailed photographs to every potential customer and then followed up their letters with phone calls. They budgeted large sums to entertain the consignors and buy full-page advertisements in Antiques and other magazines. Altogether the expense of marketing this table has run to $30,000 -- or about $3,000 for each of the 10 people who might pay a million dollars for an American antique.
John Marion begins the sale with lot number 1400, a map of Virginia drawn in 1775. Peering down from the board room windows on the third floor, the owners wait for Marion to call out Lot No. 1459, the Willing card table. These windows offer a good view of the second-floor sale room. Large Regency tables, George III mahogany side chairs and plush green carpeting give the room its character. Old Master paintings from an upcoming sale decorate its walls. Standing at the windows, the family members hold drinks in their hands and listen to Marion's words, which reach them through loudspeakers.
When Marion brings his gavel down on a Queen Anne Newport highboy, which goes for $32,000, everyone knows that the Willing card table is next.
"Lot No. 1459," Marion says.
On the stage, a man stands beside the table. He wears a blue Sotheby's blazer and has the attitude of a carnival barker. He points to the card table just as he has pointed out other objects in the room. "Showin' here!" he shouts.
"Showing on the stage," Marion says. "And what do we say for the card table?"
Marion has decided to begin the bidding at a level that Bill Stahl will later remember as "fairly high -- to give the room the sense that it's not going to be given away."
"Five hundred thousand dollars to start it now," Marion says. "At five hundred thousand dollars they'll have for it. At five hundred thousand dollars for it, five hundred."
Marion understands that bidders will be scarce on this day. He holds a great advantage over auctioneers who operate without reserve prices, because he can pretend to have bidders even when he has none. Knowing that an object has a $10,000 reserve, for example, Marion can call out bids up to that figure even when no one has actually bid. Marion can be patient. No paddles rise, no nods come from the four Sotheby's employees who staff the white telephones, and Marion quickly resorts to the reserve. "At five hundred and fifty thousand," he says. Many of the dealers in the room who are as attuned as Marion to the nuances of the play can guess that no one has actually bid.
Marion scans the faces before him. He has long known that Leslie Keno will be handling a significant telephone bidder, and yet Keno has failed to indicate the slightest interest. Keno is connected by a white telephone to Alan Miller, who is sitting at his home in Pennsylvania. It puzzles Marion that he has no real bid as yet. He must resort once again to the reserve. "Six hundred thousand, now, at six hundred," he says. "At six hundred, say fifty."
Still no paddle in the room is raised. "I have six hundred thousand dollars now, at six hundred," Marion continues. "At six hundred thousand dollars. I have six hundred." Now the three auctioneers have begun to worry. Marion's hopes rest with the silent, disembodied person of Alan Miller. He scans the room, but returns often to Keno's face. Finally, Keno nods. Alan Miller has entered the bidding at $650,000.
The auctioneers all know that Alan Miller is bidding for Luke Beckerdite. They know that Beckerdite has recently taken a job as curator at Chipstone, a collection in Milwaukee that was put together by Stanley Stone, a department store magnate. On the death of Stone's widow, Polly, Chipstone will become a museum, and Beckerdite has already begun to think of filling gaps in the collection.
"Six-fifty," Marion says. No one in the room responds. Marion must use the reserve again. "Seven hundred," he says quickly. "I have seven hundred thousand dollars now, at seven hundred."
Marion, Keno and Stahl are disappointed. In their belief, the reserve is a second-rate bidder largely because an experienced buyer knows very soon whether he is competing alone. Many objects that fail to reach their reserves are available after the auction at reduced rates. Knowledgeable dealers will sometimes stop short of a successful bid in the hope that they can acquire an object more cheaply by other means. Telephone bidders have a more difficult time. Though Alan Miller can hear Marion's voice through the receiver, he cannot tell much about his competition.
"At seven hundred thousand dollars for it, seven hundred," Marion repeats. "At seven hundred thousand dollars now."
Again, no one in the room raises a paddle. Again, Marion must wait. Miller finally agrees to the new price. Keno nods. "I have seven hundred -- seven-fifty, on the phone here," Marion says. "At seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars now. I have seven hundred and fifty."
The most important thing on Marion's mind is to sell the table. So long as Miller bids up to the reserve -- $950,000 -- Marion will be content if no other bidder enters the fray. When Marion says, "The bid is up front at seven-fifty, say eight," he is looking for someone else, some real person, to bid against the man on the telephone. Marion cannot pretend to have bidders once the bidding reaches the reserve price. Without a second person bidding, the table must sell at its reserve. To drive this price to astronomical levels, the auctioneers need two equally eager bidders. In this hope, they have not given up. New bidders often emerge after the bidding has begun.
Marion looks around the room once more and finally gives up. A second bidder will not be coming in at $800,000, so he must use the reserve. "At eight hundred thousand dollars now," Marion finally says. "At eight hundred thousand dollars for it, eight hundred."
Again, Keno looks at Marion and nods.
"Eight-fifty," Marion says. "Eight hundred and fifty, on the phone. At eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars now, at eight-fifty. Say nine."
The table has nearly reached the reserve. Now Stahl, Keno and Marion all know it's unlikely another bidder will enter the fray. Now they only want the table to sell. They hope that Alan Miller will utter the words, which Keno will communicate with a nod, that will prevent this sale from becoming a disaster. The expenses of $30,000 to market this table, the hopes of the family, the prestige of the auction house and its ability to sell $1 million objects successfully and the perception of a healthy Americana market -- all rest on the next few moments. "Nine hundred thousand now," Marion says, resorting to the reserve again. "At nine hundred and -- fifty thousand dollars in front here," Marion says, motioning toward Keno. Alan Miller has uttered the words that many have waited to hear.
"At nine-fifty. I have nine hundred and fifty thousand dollars. The bid is on the phone now, at nine hundred and fifty thousand dollars for it, nine-fifty." The official reserve remains at $1 million, and Marion can if he chooses use this figure to bid the table to one last level. The choice to employ the figure of $950,000 -- to stop now -- is entirely his. If he uses the $1 million reserve, Miller will have to commit one last time. He will have to bid $1.05 million. Since the firm receives a 10 percent commission on all sales, the auctioneer's decision could mean a difference of $10,000.
But if Miller chooses not to bid, the table goes unsold and Marion has failed. Marion must weigh such factors as the weak economy, the absence of competition and Miller's bidding habits against the additional $10,000 profit to be made if Miller hangs in for one more bid. He must decide whether to risk losing the commission of $95,000 to gain $10,000 more, and he must make this decision in the next few seconds.
"I have nine hundred and fifty thousand dollars for it, nine-fifty," Marion says as he scrutinizes the room. The choice seems clear to the best auctioneer in the world. He will not take the risk of losing the only bidder he has heard from. "And down it goes then at nine hundred and fifty thousand dollars," he says. "The bid is right here." Marion pounds his gavel on the podium. "Sold for nine hundred and fifty-thousand."
CHIPSTONE, THE house that Stanley and Polly Stone built in 1950, stands on a bluff in Fox Point, Wis., overlooking Lake Michigan. It was designed in the Georgian style and it bears a startling resemblance to the Governor's Palace at Colonial Williamsburg. Though smaller than the palace, Chipstone is a handsome place. A cupola like the one at Williamsburg sticks out of the Continued on page 54
center of its roof, and a sun porch at one end has a splendid view of the lake. Chipstone is filled with more than 200 beautiful objects.
Unlike Bill Stahl, Stanley Stone had not always loved antiques. He was a tall, dashing gentleman who made his fortune through a chain of department stores, called Boston, in Milwaukee. Stone bought his first antique from Israel Sack in 1946, after wandering into Sack's New York City shop in search of a flattop desk. "Right then I was given my first lesson about American antiques," Stone recalled years later. "I was informed: 1. Mr. Sack had no flat-topped desks. 2. All American antique writing desks were fall-front. 3. He only had American antiques." The culmination of Sack's sales pitch occurred several weeks later, when he sold the Stones a lady's secretary-bookcase, probably made in Salem, Mass., between 1800 and 1815.
The Stones quickly fell in love with American furniture. They acquired Federal-era chests from New Hampshire and Connecticut, wing chairs from New York and Philadelphia and mirrors from all over. They bought high chests and low chests, wash stands, sideboards, clocks, sofas and dining tables. Within a decade, when photographs of their collection appeared in Antiques magazine, the Stones possessed what the magazine's editor, Alice Winchester, called "one of the important collections in the country."
Like most collectors, the Stones at first did not have any idea what they were doing. They acquired an education haphazardly from the dealers who sold them their things -- from Israel Sack; from the Madison Avenue firm of Ginsburg & Levy; from Shreve, Crump & Low in Boston. They also began to teach themselves. They studied books about antiques and attended the exclusive collectors' forums sponsored by Colonial Williamsburg. But the most significant moment in their collecting career came when they met a dealer named John Walton, who had recently opened a shop on Park Avenue that carried antiques of the same quality as those inside Israel Sack Inc. With Walton, the Stones began an association that would determine the nature of their acquisitions for the next 30 years.
Stone bought his first antique from Walton in 1952 -- an upholstered armchair from Massachusetts. By 1983, two years before Walton's death and only four years before Stone's own, the couple had bought nearly 150 objects from Walton and had created the greatest collection of American furniture west of the Mississippi River.
Walton and Stone became great friends. They went to auctions together and spent hours poring over objects together. "Stanley," Walton once asked him on the telephone, "would you be interested in owning the best pie crust tea table?" Stone naturally said he would. As a result of this conversation, Walton drove from New York to Milwaukee with the "best" tea table in the back of his truck. He wanted to deliver it in person. As a bonus Walton tossed in a Newport block-and-shell chest of drawers, which Stone was also permitted to buy, and which the collector later called the "icing on the cake."
COMMUNICATION AMONG cities was difficult in the 18th century, and as a consequence distinctive styles grew up in major urban centers like Boston, Philadelphia, New York and Baltimore. Different periods -- Queen Anne or Chippendale -- also produced new styles. Collectors like Stone often want to own examples of furniture made in all the best urban centers, from all the major periods. But most collectors -- even one as wealthy as Stone -- do not possess the resources of Henry Francis du Pont. Where du Pont could buy chairs, tables, highboys and lowboys from every period and every region, Stone had to be selective.
Early in his career, Stone grew especially interested in the Goddard-Townsend furniture of Newport. He could not get enough of it. He bought a Newport card table and a Newport side chair. He bought a bureau table, a candle stand, a tall clock, a wing chair and a sofa. Newport furniture became a sort of trademark and Stone was so proud of it that he even wrote an article for Antiques entitled "Documented Newport Furniture."
For a collector of not unlimited means, concentration in one area means gaps in another. To possess a complete survey of Newport furniture is to fall short in an area like Philadelphia.
When Stone died in 1987, he intended that Chipstone should become a museum one day. Luke Beckerdite, the curator, is apparently trying to follow Stanley Stone, by buying up the best examples he can find of forms not yet represented in the house. "The Willing table," Beckerdite said after the museum had bought it, "is beyond argument the greatest surviving Philadelphia card table in the early rococo style."
UNCERTAINTY PLAGUES the lives of most things. A table serves its owner, giving good use and the pleasure of its clean lines. But it can outlive one owner, and then the owner after that. Objects know the curse of immortality. Just when it seems to have found a good home -- when it has settled its weight into a carpet and made its place -- its future once more becomes uncertain.
A work of art "always remains tied to preservers," Martin Heidegger once wrote. In the course of its life, the Willing table had been passed down from one uninterested relation to the next. It had moved from the servants quarters, to a box in a dark, dry basement, and finally into the house of a great-great-great grandson. Luck brought it there, and kept it polished, and made it appreciated. When Phebe Newhall's grandson died, the table's future was again uncertain. In the life of a thing, there is no safer home than a museum.
All of Stone's furniture went into the Georgian-style house where he and Polly lived. Oriental rugs cover the floors of Chipstone and the beautiful furniture is arranged not as in a museum, but as in a home. Polly Stone still lives there, and entertains her guests on the furniture that she and Stanley chose so carefully. The Willing card table has taken its place among them. Museums like Chipstone preserve their things, but do something else as well. They raise things out of obscurity. They make the ordinary special. Like people, things want not only to be preserved, but to be desired.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart with the continuation of a front-page article on Jan. 30, about an international research project on genetic coding, misstated the current name of one of the companies developing related technology. The company is now known as the Darwin Molecular Corporation; its former name was Darwin Molecular Technologies.
The chart also omitted the names of three main scientists at the company. They are David Galas, Lawrence Loeb and Julius Rebek.
It also misidentified one of the main financial backers of Darwin. He is Lloyd Cotsen, not Frederick Bourke.
An article in The Times Magazine on Jan. 16 about an antique table referred incorrectly to the collection of Stanley and Polly Stone of Fox Point, Wis. It was considered the greatest collection of American furniture in the Midwest, not west of the Mississippi River.

GRAPHIC: Table: "Who's Who in the Genome Business" lists companies and organizations pursuing technologies related to the Human Genome Project, including developing equipment and technologies for speeding up research and turning that knowledge into marketable drugs and therapies. All but three were founded in the last two years. (Source: Science Magazine) (pg. 18)Photos: Thomas Willing, left, as painted by Charles Willson Peale in 1782. The Philadelphia merchant commissioned the card table. (PAINTING, ABOVE, FROM THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART)(pg. 22); The table arrived at its first home, the Philadelphia mansion of Thomas Willing, in 1759. The house and its perfect treasures were havens from the muddy and distasteful world of Philadelphia commerce. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERICK DE BOURG RICHARDS/THE LIBRARY COMPANY OF PHILADELPHIA, MAY 1856)(pg. 25); Made in the pre-U.S.A.: the Willing card table in 1991, around the time it was auctioned. (PHOTOGRAPH: SOTHEBY'S, NEW YORK)(pg. 39)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (85%); GSK (LSE) (85%); BIOC (EGX) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (85%); GENENTECH INC (60%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GENETICS AND HEREDITY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID (DNA); RESEARCH; ETHICSFURNITURE; AUCTIONS; ANTIQUES GENES & CHROMOSOMES (93%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (92%); SCIENCE NEWS (91%); GENOMICS (91%); ETHICS (90%); DNA (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); SOFTWARE DEFECTS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARAFREUND, THATCHER

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1994



806 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 7; Page 3; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 4737 words

HEADLINE: A Book in Search of a Buzz: The Marketing of a First Novel

BYLINE: By Michael Norman; Michael Norman, a former reporter for The New York
Times, is an associate professor of journalism at New York University and the
author of "These Good Men," a memoir of American troops in Vietnam.

 BODY:
This essay is the first of two parts about the marketing of a first novel and the beginning of a writer's career. Part 2 will appear next week. 
Put aside all your strict ideas about what is worthy and what is unworthy. . . . Just make it a matter of business."George Gissing "New Grub Street" (1891)
 IT is a warm day in the early summer of 1992 and a young writer from the Old South is hustling down Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, late for a meeting with his editor. His first novel, still in manuscript, is nearly a year from the bookstore shelves, but the process of promoting it, and him, has already begun.
 He walks south sweating in the sun, hope and history at his heels. He aims for something big. Not the Great American Novel, exactly -- he has no ambition, yet, to encompass the culture, rewrite the idiom. Instead, he aims for something literary: a book to anchor a career, a road that might lead to a writing life.
 Down Fifth Avenue he goes, then through the main entrance at No. 666, up to the 20th floor and over to an amiable receptionist.
 "Hi," he says. "I'm here to see Nan Talese."
"Hello," says the amiable receptionist. "And you're. . . ?"
 "Oh, I'm Mark Richard."
 He is 36 years old, with shrewd eyes and a shock of dark hair, a sturdy man of medium height somewhat hobbled by congenitally bad hips. Late of Virginia and now of New York, he has worked as a fisherman, a photographer, a private eye, a manager for a political candidate. He's lived high, dining at the table of well-to-do friends, and he's lived low, so strapped he's slept beside a highway.
 At first glance, he seems poised for success. His short stories have appeared in Esquire, Harper's Magazine and The New Yorker, and in 1989 Knopf collected 10 of them in "The Ice at the Bottom of the World," which won the PEN/Hemingway prize and led to a Whiting Foundation grant. His editor, Nan A. Talese of Doubleday, publishes, among many others, Margaret Atwood and Pat Conroy, the former long a critical success, the latter a best seller. And his agent, Georges Borchardt, has counted among his many clients Beckett and Sartre, Jane Fonda and Tracy Kidder.
 But in the catchpenny world of commercial publishing, where "value" frequently has meaning only at the bottom of a balance sheet, all this can add up to very little. In the counting rooms of modern American publishing houses, the past is measured in sales and returns, and Mark Richard's thin collection made almost no impression in the marketplace. So today he has come to his new publisher, Doubleday, hoping to find a way to make his next book -- his first novel -- sell.
 Of course, no author or book is typical. But the story of Mark Richard (pronounced ree-SHARD) and "Fishboy" is instructive in illustrating the fate of a first novel. The author was selected as the focus of this essay not because he is the most promising writer of his generation, or because he is this season's young-man-about-fiction, but because he has an interesting writing style and because he had the forbearance to sit through more than 50 interviews spread across nearly two years.
 Mark Richard is a late-20th-century writer, which is to say that, like it or not, he takes a hand in selling his product. These days the most ardent apostles for art roll up their sleeves, hold their noses against the meretriciousness of the marketplace and practice a little economic determinism. Even Cormac McCarthy, Don DeLillo and William Gaddis -- eminent novelists who are notoriously shy when it comes to publicity -- have surrendered to the exigencies of modern publishing and agreed to be the subjects of magazine articles.
 Some first novelists lend themselves to the hard sell. Such was the case with Donna Tartt and her 1992 book "The Secret History," a hefty campus novel that won its author commercial success and celebrity. But the publicity and marketing machine that put Ms. Tartt on the best-seller lists (and has so far, according to its publisher, netted over 200,000 copies in hard cover alone) will not grind nearly as hard for Mark Richard. "Fishboy" is not the sort of book to inspire gossipy feature stories. Narrow and oblique, it is an unexpected tale told in an unexpected way. What is more, the author does not have the kind of profile that suggests literary success. He attended Washington & Lee University, a small school in the South, not a well-known graduate-school writing program like that at the University of Iowa. He studied journalism, not the esthetic laws, as John Gardner called them, that writing programs purvey.
 In the end, Mark Richard will discover what most authors discover: at some point, after all the angst and effort -- the editor's grand plan, the publicist's pitch, the salesman's best show -- the fate of any book, but especially a first novel, is often beyond reckoning.
 "Fishboy" is a story -- a myth, really -- about a young grotesque, looking for redemption, who goes to sea on a trawler crewed by misfits and murderers. The plot is oblique, the characters bizarre, the language so rich it is sometimes impenetrable. Such a book is a tough sell, and not just to a general readership.
 Long before it is sent out to fight for a place on the bookstore shelves, "Fishboy" will have to win friends inside the publishing house that releases it, especially among Doubleday's sales representatives, who pitch the company's list of titles to the nation's 30,000 bookstores. No sales rep has the time to tout every title on the list. Instead, a sales rep pushes the books he or she thinks will sell -- or, sometimes, the ones that seem of personal interest. If Mark Richard's editor, Ms. Talese, can't convince Doubleday's sales force that "Fishboy" deserves at least a mention when they're out peddling the company's products, then the book -- and the career that rides on it -- could end up in the jaws of a pulp machine.
 Most publishers divide their offerings into two main lists, fall and spring. Six to eight months in advance of each season, the sales force and marketing crew gather at a series of meetings to review the upcoming list; the decisions that are made at these sessions -- closed to outsiders -- can make or break a book. Major houses like Doubleday publish between 100 and 150 titles a season. Profit margins are too thin to promote aggressively each item on such a large list, so at their sales and marketing meetings the companies practice a kind of literary triage. They decide who gets the full treatment -- the six-figure print run, the lavish book jacket, the pressure on the news media, the 10-city tour, the television interviews, the advertisements, the four-color posters and bookstore displays -- and who is left to rely on luck.
 The editors who are invited to attend the sales and marketing meetings are given only a few moments to present each of their books. "I'd say we get an average of 26 seconds to represent five years' worth of an author's work," said a senior editor at a major publishing house (one of many consulted for this essay who insisted on anonymity). And, said another editor, if an editor's pitch is flat or oblique, "if the sales force yawns or says, 'We don't get it,' then chances are there'll be no tour or promotion budget. Your little novel becomes just another couple of lines in the company's catalogue."
 SALES people, of course, speak the language of commerce, not culture, so a clever editor tries to give a book the cachet of a best seller. "At sales conference you never bore the reps with a plot," said Gerald Howard, an editor at W. W. Norton. "The easiest way to present fiction to them is by analogy; you say, 'This book is a Chicano "Ordinary People" or a Yugoslavian "Joy Luck Club" or "Catcher in the Rye" displaced to California.' "
 Then again, an editor can try pitching the author, not the book. Nan Talese has decided that the campaign for "Fishboy" will turn in large part on Mark Richard. The story of his eclectic life should make good copy for Doubleday's publicists and, as a former radio disk jockey, Mr. Richard acquits himself so well in front of a microphone that Ms. Talese plans to let him address the sales reps directly -- by way of a videotape that will be sent to them with proof copies of the book.
 And thus it is that Mr. Richard finds himself at the offices of his publisher this fine summer day, fussing in front of a camera as he prepares to tape a short pitch.
 "Maybe," says Ms. Talese, doing a little coaching before the camera goes on, "maybe you can say, 'This is a ghost story,' so it has sort of a sense of mystery." (There is indeed a ghost in "Fishboy," but a ghost story it's not.)
 The author is anxious, sweating through his polo shirt. "I want the reps to know that I'll do anything to make this book a success," he says. "Will they know who I am? Should I mention my first book?"
 All at once the lights go on and the cameraman signals he's ready.
 The author clears his throat:
 " 'Fishboy' is the story of a discarded boy who has become a ghost. It is a story of murder and fratricide and patricide, but there also are some lighter moments and I hope even a love story thrown in. . . . I'm willing to go all across the country to give readings, to do whatever it takes to get this book out in front of the public. . . . I understand that you are the best at what you do. I would love to make this book such a success that the previous publisher will be very angry with themselves for letting this book go. Thank you, and it's nice to be with Doubleday."
 "Great," says Ms. Talese.
 "Very friendly," says the associate marketing director, John Pitts. "Very warm."
 For his part, Mr. Richard seems uncomfortable. A postulant to literature, he has just painted his ambitiously unconventional work as conventional -- yet another tale with sex and violence -- just so he can win over his publisher's sales agents. (Much later, after a few beers, he will ask, "I wasn't too unctuous, was I?")
 Now, however, back in the office of his editor, he encounters a more immediate problem.
 "Did you bring the manuscript?" Ms. Talese asks.
 The room grows quiet. He was supposed to have delivered his revisions today.
 "No," says Mr. Richard, clearly diffident. "But it's O.K. I know we're on deadline."
 "I know you know," says Ms. Talese.
 "It's going to be better," Mr. Richard goes on. "I'm telling you it's going to be a lot better."
 "When will I see it?"
 Mr. Richard shifts in his seat. "I'm, ah, going south on the 17th."
 "I think," says Ms. Talese, "that you should leave 'Fishboy' here -- before you go."
 "I need to turn up the volume."
 "You need to work."
 Doomsayers of American culture have been forecasting the death of serious literature since that day in the early 19th century when the Harper brothers opened their little shop in Manhattan and ushered in the era of modern American commercial publishing. True or not, it is painfully apparent today that technology, demographics and particularly the interest in increasing dividends and profits seen in the last two decades have had a profound impact on American literature. The world of letters has been changing, and these changes raise a number of disquieting questions:
 Has the printed word lost its power to shape society? Who's driving modern culture -- Toni Morrison and Alfred A. Knopf or the Beastie Boys and Bart Simpson? Is a great publisher still measured by a sense of taste and a willingness to defy convention, or only by its ability to survive in a marketplace where an average of 45,000 new titles a year -- including perhaps some 4,000 works of fiction -- compete for shelf space? And what about the modern editor? Is he or she nothing more than a bibliographic procurer, a deal maker who thinks of books not as culture but as a share of consumer spending? Or is the editor still the front-line critic, culling out the common and raising up the rare, helping us, as the 19th-century critic Margaret Fuller put it, to "catch the contagion" of art? What kind of balance can be struck between literary fiction and commercial fiction? What is product and what is art? Can a book be both? Is it fair when the critic Denis Donoghue says that "a work of literature concentrates on being a work of literature at any cost"?
 American publishers insist they "support" literary fiction, but their record suggests something else. Today, the big conglomerates that have spent the last 30 years buying up most of the country's major publishing houses want big books with big sales to justify their big investments -- and books that need time to find their audience, books that might bolster a backlist a decade hence, tend to get lost in the process. This hunger for immediate sales, for best sellers, Thomas Whiteside says in his 1981 book "The Blockbuster Complex," has stripped away the veneer of gentility that once made the profession of publishing seem so noble. True, publishers have always aimed at the bottom line. (John Tebbel's 1987 history of American publishing, "Between Covers," is filled with tales of the mean and niggardly. As the 19th-century publisher Fletcher Harper told his contemporary George Palmer Putnam, after Putnam complained that Harper had pirated one of his editions, "Courtesy is courtesy and business is business.") But, inside the business and out, there used to be a sense that America's bookmen and bookwomen were the country's curators of culture.
 No more. Now the voice from the editor's office is filled with censure and shame. "On the bad days," Gerald Howard wrote in an uncompromising essay in the summer 1989 issue of The American Scholar, "the days when another venerable American house is neutron-bombed by the mindless conglomerate . . . I decide that literature is the very last thing that publishing is about. I decide that publishing is about power and money and ego and sharp practice." Books are products, units, goods; this is a state of mind that corrodes culture. "There are houses these days where they are telling their editors not to edit, that it's not an efficient use of their time," said one veteran editor of literary novels. "You want those manuscripts to come in and get out there making money." Ted Solotaroff, who spent a career of several decades editing at three major publishing houses (most recently HarperCollins), has said there is a chill in the industry. And that chill has become a bit deeper just in the past month, with the announcements that Houghton Mifflin would close its Ticknor & Fields division and that Atheneum would no longer exist as a Macmillan imprint after this spring, and with the firing of half of Harcourt Brace's New York trade publishing personnel. "The conglomerateer," Mr. Solotaroff wrote in a 1987 article in The New Republic, "has bred an atmosphere of fear, cynicism, rapaciousness and ignorance."
 Mark Richard is walking in his sleep.
 Eleven months have passed. Through the summer and fall, the publisher has been busy. An artist designed an appealing deep-blue cover and Nan Talese began to oversee a marketing and publicity plan for the book. Ms. Talese has approved lists of authors who might provide prepublication quotations, book critics to cajole, and booksellers to receive advance copies (called bound galleys, these are early proofs in paper covers, usually sent out months before publication in very small quantities but occasionally released en masse, as promotional "reading copies"). She has also signed off on lists of newspapers, magazines and radio stations that might give "Fishboy" space or play.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Richard has struggled with the revisions -- Ms. Talese had found sentences that went awry, gaps in the story, characters that weren't well explained -- and he has been late in delivering them. "Every time I talked to Nan on the phone, I could hear her pencil tapping on the desk." Then he polished the galley proofs and met with Marly Rusoff, a vice president and associate publisher at Doubleday, to help plan a series of readings and promotional appearances.
 Now, in early April 1993, "Fishboy" is on its way to the bookstores, and Mr. Richard is so nervous -- "scared, really" -- that he wakes up in the middle of the night standing by his desk or in front of his refrigerator. For the first time since he arrived in New York eight years ago, he has his own apartment. Spread out on his bed is a map, along with a travel schedule. In a month he'll be on the road, first on a publicity tour planned by Ms. Rusoff -- a quick run through Miami, San Francisco, Seattle and Toronto -- and then, starting the second week in June, on an automobile trip that he and Ms. Rusoff organized together: 28 signings and readings from Texas to Virginia. He can't, of course, drive his way onto the best-seller lists -- "No one, including me, expects this book, an odd book, to have a broad appeal," he says -- but he hopes to build an audience for his work, for this novel and the next, out on the road, town by town, bookstore by bookstore, one group of readers at a time. That, in any case, is the plan. SOMETIMES a first novelist bolts from obscurity into the limelight: Ralph Ellison with "Invisible Man," Joseph Heller with "Catch-22," J. D. Salinger with "The Catcher in the Rye." Since critics know the mythology well, they are often attracted to first novels. "I've had first novels compared to Dante and Faulkner," said Jane von Mehren, the executive editor of Penguin Books. Prodigality aside, when a new voice gets noticed, she said, "that's exciting."
 As literary truck, however, first novels find their way into print for other reasons. "The hope," said Ms. von Mehren, "is that the person will go on to sell 40,000 or 50,000 copies with their next book or the one after that." Such hope, on the part of publishers, represents a very small, very acceptable risk. Most first novels have advances against royalties that are less than $10,000 and print runs of 5,000 copies or fewer. The production costs of a first novel run roughly $2 a book. Publishers gamble a lot of these $2 chips, hoping one will hit. And some see this gambler's mentality as the undoing of the industry.
 "The editor tells the author, 'We're crazy about your book and we want to publish you,' " says Ted Solotaroff. "Then, after publication, what happens in most cases is that nothing happens: no tour, no money for ads, virtually nothing. The mind set that involves acquiring a first novel is the fear that you may be missing something, the next Robert Stone or Ann Beattie."
 These days, however, publishers are not a patient lot and tend to gamble on an author only once. "They want a sure thing," said Edward Burlingame, who for many years had his own imprint at HarperCollins, where he published, among others, Donald Barthelme, Colin Thubron, Roxana Robinson and Ron Hansen. "They don't have the courage to publish a book about which there's really a reason to be excited. If Joe Smith's first novel sells, say, only 6,000 copies, then the next time his editor goes to the publisher or marketing director, the reaction will be, 'Oh, my God, here comes Mary with another Joe Smith book.' "
 No one knows how many people in America read serious literature. Last year Philip Roth estimated that "maybe there are 120,000" serious readers in America, and by readers he meant "people who when they are at work during the day think that after dinner tonight and after the kids are in bed, I'm going to read for two hours." Tom Jenks, the former associate fiction editor of Esquire, thinks about half that many people buy serious books. And Nan Talese is convinced that there are only 4,000 readers who "keep up with reviews of literary work, then will actually go into the store to buy the book." And what they do with it at home, she added, "only Heaven knows."
 Such small numbers leave an ambitious unknown writer struggling against large odds. Publishers can afford the gamble, but authors can't -- which explains Mark Richard's nocturnal strolls.
 "I'm sure," he says, surveying his map, "in several places on the tour, I'm going to get there and only two people will show up for the reading -- and one of them will be there for the wine and cheese."
 The eyes are bright, the voice clipped, the conversation, as always, filled with recognizable names.
 "I was with Mona Simpson the other night," says Nan Talese, "and she said that writing is about the soul and publishing is about the ego."
 In fact, publishing is about profit, as Ms. Talese, a banker's daughter, well knows. For the last 30 years she's worked as an editor, at four houses. At Doubleday she has her own imprint (her name goes on the book's title page and on the spine), which, in effect, is like having a publishing house within a publishing house. She has some autonomy in acquiring books; below a certain sum, probably in the neighborhood of $150,000, she can offer advances without checking with the company president. She also oversees the design, marketing and publicity of each book she acquires. She publishes some 12 to 15 books a year; among them have been the fiction of Ian McEwan, Mary Morris, Gita Mehta, Robert MacNeil and three winners of Britain's Booker Prize, Ben Okri, Thomas Keneally and Barry Unsworth.
 Bantam Doubleday Dell, which is owned by the German corporation Bertelsmann, is, according to a Publishers Weekly estimate of gross sales, the second largest publishing company in the United States. (Random House is the largest.) Part of Doubleday's success comes from its blockbuster authors, most notably John Grisham, whose law-firm melodramas exceed a million copies in their first printings and have sold over 4.5 million copies in hard cover alone. "We could make our operating expenses on just one of his books," said one Doubleday editor. As at other major publishers, commerce is in command at Doubleday. A few years ago Jack Hoeft, the chief executive officer of Bantam Doubleday Dell, told a room full of students at a summer publishing institute, "I pay editors to be able to smell out a book. 'But Jack,' some say, 'this is literature.' I say, 'How many will it sell?' "
 The more publishers rely on formula fiction to fatten the bottom line, the less likely they are to commit resources to the rest of the list. About 15 years ago, Stanley Elkin was unhappy about Dutton's plans for his novel "The Living End." The catalogue described the book and listed the price, but there was no mention of an author tour or cooperative advertising. "The Living End," which John Irving reviewed in The New York Times Book Review and called "a fine and daring novel," was to be just another $2 chip. Mr. Elkin, a longtime and critically well-regarded novelist (who is, by the way, still published by Dutton), decided to exorcise his disappointment in a characteristically irreverent letter to his agent, Georges Borchardt:
 "There's been an awful lot of talk about this being my breakthrough book," the author wrote. "(It even says that in the ad.) Sure, I could sell upwards of 3,500 copies. (I can't stop being sarcastic, Georges, I'm afraid I'll hurt myself if I do.) I'm getting these failure vibes, Georges. I'm going to get more good reviews and nobody is going to make a penny. Dutton will be able to say, and probably will, how they done real good by literature, taking a chance on me. I seem to be good for the image, Georges, a feather in the cap of free enterprise, a kind of artsy loss leader. . . . Couldn't they at least have said something like WORD OF MOUTH AVAILABLE ? These vibes, Georges, these vibes. And you want to know something? Having said all this, I don't even feel better."
 GEORGES BORCHARDT became Mark Richard's agent after the young writer was sent to him by Esquire's Tom Jenks. Mr. Borchardt sent "Fishboy" to Nan Talese in the fall of 1991. She'd admired the author's earlier work and, after reading the manuscript, began to think about making an offer. "Fishboy" was then in its nascent form, "an experimental novel," she thought, "slim, difficult for a reader to grasp." She couldn't pay much for just one book, but when the author told her he had another novel in the works and enough stories for a second collection, Ms. Talese put together a deal: about $120,000 (no one will say for sure) for the hard-cover and paperback rights to all three books. (When all is said and done, if Mr. Richard's annual income for the length of the contract is $15,000, he'll be doing better than most journeyman writers.)
 In the late summer of 1992, "Fishboy" was presented to the Doubleday sales force. (Along with proof copies, Doubleday sends its sales reps a videotape on which editors -- sometimes along with authors -- introduce their books for the coming season.) Ms. Talese tried to convince them that "Fishboy" was "really a phantasmagoric dream and you're carried along by the beauty of the language." Many, however, were not convinced. They sent back word that they found the book too difficult to read. "That's fine," Ms. Talese replied, "it's not for everyone, but I believe it will get tremendous press coverage and attention because critics like to discover someone new." And then she announced that she was thinking of a first printing of 10,000 copies, many more than the customary number for a first novel, a clear signal to the sales reps that she considered "Fishboy" more than just another $2 gamble.
 The marketing campaign for "Fishboy" began a year ago this month, four months in advance of publication. Nan Talese mailed bound galleys to 1,100 independent bookstores, places that had been identified across the years as good outlets for literary fiction. She hoped the work would speak for itself, though she included a letter extolling the author's virtues, his unusual background and her conviction that the work would get good reviews.
 Before reviews appear in the popular press, the industry's trade publication, Publishers Weekly, and its major previewing rival, Kirkus Reviews, offer their opinions. Both sources are read by bookstore owners, librarians, newspaper book editors and arts editors across the country. A good review in both can prompt the stores to file larger advance orders. The reviews in Kirkus are consistently more captious than those in Publishers Weekly. If "Fishboy" could win plaudits in Kirkus, then it might break out early, as they say in the industry, and take on a buzz.
 The review appeared in the March 1 issue: "The promise of Richard's story collection is only fitfully apparent in his surrealistic first novel. . . . The transition from short story to novel has proven difficult for Richard, and his incantatory style, thrilling at the start, looks too effortful over the long haul."
 Orders were slow, so Ms. Talese dispatched a second letter to her 1,100 independents:
 "It is not often one reads a manuscript and has the instinct that it is the work of a young writer who will be significant in American letters. I remember when editors said that of Cormac McCarthy in the 1950's. I saw that in the work of Mark Richard. . . . The figures registered in our computer show that all independents have ordered only one or at most two copies of 'Fishboy.' I fear that if you do not have more than that when the reviews appear readers will not find 'Fishboy' and we know they rarely return later. I hope Richard will not have to wait 25 years as McCarthy did."
 As a marketing conceit, it was both clever and ironic: it traded on the reputation of a man who takes little part in publishing except to write his highly acclaimed books and it implied, without any evidence whatsoever, that a buzz had already begun.
 It is now the first week in May, the official publication date. The major reviews -- from The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times and The Chicago Tribune -- ought to appear soon. The critics, of course, might dislike "Fishboy" -- or, worse, simply ignore it. But at least it is in the stores, on the shelves.
 Nan Talese is sitting at her desk, staring at an elegant arrangement of tulips in a crystal vase. "Publishing literary novels is like sailing a small craft," she is saying. "Either you catch the wind or you have to paddle very hard."
 Next week: "Fishboy" is published, the reviewers weigh in and Mark Richard takes to the road to sell his book.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An essay on Jan. 30, about the market ing of a first novel, misidentified the current publisher of the novelist Stanley Elkin. It is Hyperion, not Dutton.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (pg. 3)
Photo: Mark Richard. (BILL HAYWARD/DOUBLEDAY)(pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; SURVEYS AND SERIES NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK PUBLISHING (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (60%); BOOKSTORES (58%); FOUNDATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: NORMAN, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994



807 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: POP CULTURE;
The New Colossus: American Culture As Power Export

BYLINE: By JOHN ROCKWELL

 BODY:
Spielbergian Dinosaurs devouring entire national film industries at a single gulp! Silver-haired villains and sloe-eyed ingenues setting new soap-opera standards for political incorrectness as half the world watches! Teen-agers from Bangkok to Beirut wearing Chicago Bulls caps backwards and lamenting Michael Jordan's retirement! Smoke bombs and lasers and thrusting pelvises and outraged clerics and intellectuals from Paris to Teheran to Beijing denouncing Michael Jackson and Madonna!
As the millennium approaches -- "Angels in America" is also big worldwide, but rather higher of brow -- American popular culture has never been more dominant internationally, nor more controversial. American cultural exports swell at least some of us with pride and help reduce the trade deficit. Serious money is involved; this is America's second-biggest export after aircraft. But just as some Americans have doubts about our pop culture -- its propensity to celebrate violence, sexual stereotyping and sheer lowest-common-denominator crassness -- those doubts multiply abroad, especially when the imports are seen as a threat to local cultural identity. 
 A survey of American pop-cultural influence by New York Times correspondents around the world reveals many things, from the quirky to the amusing to the troubling. But the results also raise larger questions: Is America's dominance due to intrinsic strengths of its culture -- its sheer flair and energy, its incarnation of democracy itself as marketable entertainment, its forging of a new international language? Or, as foreign critics lament, is it merely a function of American military and economic domination? Or capitalism run amok, a "pure monopoly in the worst sense," as Jacques Toubon, the French Minister of Culture, put it in the recent debate over world trade barriers?
Statistically, America's impact is overwhelming. Of the world's 100 most-attended films last year, 88 were American, Variety reports. The highest-ranked competitor, France's "Visiteurs," was No. 27. That's not even counting pop music, television, novels and the more nebulous, all-pervasive imagery of American street fashion.
But such dominance can breed insensitivity to other cultures' fears that their traditional values may be lost. Indeed, the insistence at the trade talks by Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, and by Mickey Kantor, the American trade representative and Hollywood lawyer, that such fears were simply a smokescreen for protectionism may have pushed the rest of Europe into siding with the French to erect still more barriers to American films and music. Elite culture has nearly always been protected, even in the United States, and to eliminate that would be to fulfill de Tocqueville's worst fears that a culture's excellence can be leveled by the common taste.
Few could deny that some of America's success is due simply to aggressive marketing. The popularity of a seven-year-old minor soaper like "The Bold and the Beautiful" in countries like Lebanon, Egypt and India is a case in point. For Americans abroad, a troubling aspect of our popular culture is that so much of it, especially in Eastern European and third-world countries, is inferior. Instead of the best films and television -- best here meaning "Roseanne," not PBS -- foreigners get second-tier shows like "The Bold and the Beautiful" and "Baywatch" marketed on the cheap. For executives in search of a deal, and audiences eager for any glimpse of American opulence, it may not matter much. But in the not-too-much-longer run, it tarnishes our national image.
Rampant piracy -- the illegal copying of films, television programs and albums -- contributes to this debasement of America's best popular culture. But while piracy is a big issue for outraged executives in New York and Los Angeles, it is less of one for those interested in the sheer impact of American culture abroad. Yes, companies lose royalties and foreign buyers may get grainier images or muddier sound. But whether Clint Eastwood and Janet Jackson get their cut, their Americanizing influence still spreads from bazaars in Nairobi to stalls in Guangzhou.
In decades past, America's chief cultural exports were debonair crooners and stalwart upholders of truth, justice and the American way. Today, a different America exports products that reflect a chilling propensity for cartoon-like, bone-crunching, eyeball-popping violence. That seems to suit much of the world, if a report from Lebanon below is any indication. There, Islamic fundamentalists, rather like American puritans of whatever political stripe, deface posters of semi-clothed women but ignore lurid images of slaughter.
In the United States, pundits fret about children aping Beavis and Butt-head and about violence on the screen provoking violence in the streets. Abroad, those are real worries, too. But for Americans, another worry should be that foreigners may take our films and our rap literally, as an unexaggerated report on our state of affairs. In Brazil, for example, the police justify atrocities by saying they've seen American judges lead mobs of nightriders on "Dark Justice."
American intellectuals complain that American high culture is ignored in the face of this onslaught of action-heroics and indecent proposals. In fact, it enjoys a pretty heady reputation abroad. In Paris this fall, for instance, it was hard to avoid American painters, architects, authors, dancers, composers and theater directors traipsing through town.
But popular culture remains America's signal cultural contribution to the world. Its dominance today is not all bad -- commercially, morally or imagistically. The picture of multicultural acceptance our films and television purvey, for instance, may be more liberal wish-fulfillment than reality, but it still serves well a world riven by ethnic hatred. That the Fresh Prince of Bel Air can be popular in Spain or Whitney Houston beloved in Egypt may say far more to the world than one more punch in the snoot from Sylvester Stallone.
Then again, maybe "Hollywood" is itself no longer all that American, and its success abroad may be a testimony to its cosmopolitanism. When our supposedly national film industry boasts an Austrian named Schwarzenegger as its biggest star, a Belgian named Van Damme close behind in action films and a Chinese, Bruce Lee, as an honorable ancestor, when the French and the Japanese own studios or invest heavily in "American" films, when Hollywood gets half its profits from outside the U.S., when the new star of the Chicago Bulls is a Croatian named Toni Kukoc, then just how parochially American is our entertainment industry, anyway?
It may be that the world is being inexorably transformed from old to new, from narrow to broad, from kayak to jet. Maybe Western suits worn by Saudi or African businessmen, maybe even the English language itself, are not so much emblems of American superiority as the simple acceptance by a developing world of a single international standard of discourse.
On that model, periodic eruptions of religious and nationalist resentment are mere spray on the sweeping wave of history. On that same model, "Hollywood" and America itself may be more metaphors than velociraptors. They may represent not the monopolistic invasion by one country of all the others but the focal point of an international mass culture forming before our eyes.
No wonder French intellectuals are afraid. What they see is not some alien marauder but the inevitable consequences of their own revolution, the ones de Tocqueville himself found so alluring and terrifying: liberty, equality and, even, maybe, fraternity.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 20, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Jan. 30 listing the most popular American musicians in for eign countries misstated the national ities of several bands or performers. Def Leppard is British, Air Supply is Australian and Ace of Base is Swed ish; Eric Clapton is British. None of those named are American.
In addition, the chart confused a song name with that of a performer. The song, "Informer," is performed by Snow, who is a Canadian.

GRAPHIC: Chart listing top rated American television shows, motion pictures and musical groups abroad

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (73%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (73%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO BULLS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO BULLS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); LEBANON (73%); ILLINOIS, USA (73%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available EXPORT TRADE (90%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PROTECTIONISM (74%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (74%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (63%); 

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); MICHAEL JORDAN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994



808 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BAY RIDGE;
The Warring of the Green

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

 BODY:
For almost two decades, Park Slope's annual St. Patrick's Day parade has escaped the bitter clashes that have become associated with Manhattan's Fifth Avenue march.
But this year, a sudden breath of discord is sweeping from Park Slope to Bay Ridge, as plans for an insurgent parade take shape. 
 Inspired by the success of mid-May's Norwegian Day Parade -- a Bay Ridge institution for 37 years that draws tens of thousands of spectators -- a group of merchants, residents and civic leaders are preparing their own parade on Brooklyn's Fifth Avenue. And they are receiving barbs from the stalwarts of the borough's oldest and largest celebration of Irish ethnicity, Park Slope's Brooklyn Irish American Parade.
"It's dividing when you have two parades in a borough," said Kathleen McDonagh, chairwoman of the Park Slope event. "It's not good. The borough's parade should be built on the one already in existence."
"This is our 19th year," she added, "and we are the tradition."
Martin J. Golden, an organizer of the Bay Ridge St. Patrick's Day Parade, said he had no intentions of creating hard feelings, but said the event was overdue in a community that is about 30 percent Irish-American. Mr. Golden, who owns Bay Ridge Manor, a popular banquet hall, and is a member of the local community board, is also looking to attract attention to a year-long revitalization along Fifth Avenue, the main shopping hub in the community, which has suffered under the recession.
"We don't want to interfere with anyone's parade, which is why ours will occur 10 days after St. Patrick's Day and a week after the traditional one in Park Slope," said Mr. Golden. "I'd say that with 2.5 million people living in Brooklyn, the borough is large enough for two parades."
The Brooklyn parades are apparently unified on the issue that has proved so divisive in Manhattan: the exclusion of marchers identifying themselves as homosexual.
Last year, the Irish Lesbian and Gay Organization was barred from joining in the Manhattan parade by the courts, and staged a protest march, which resulted in several arrests.
The issue, which put the former Mayor, David N. Dinkins, at odds with the parade's traditional sponsor, the Ancient Order of Hibernians, has divided politicians and other leaders throughout the city.
Openly gay marchers are barred from both Brooklyn parades, said people close to the organizers who insisted on anonymity. But the matter has not been an issue, organizers said, even though Park Slope has a large population of homosexuals.
"Ours is a religious and cultural event," said Mrs. McDonagh. "And no one from any gay organization, to my knowledge, has approached us about marching."
"Nobody wants to offend or hurt anybody," Mr. Golden said, "but it's a fact that this is a religious parade named after a saint. We're going to abide by the laws of the Ancient Order of Hiberians and that of the Catholic Church."
Brendan Fay, a member of the Irish Gay and Lesbian Organization, said: "For me, I know the St. Patrick's Day parade is the annual celebration for Irish people. But it has become a parade of bigotry, of exclusion, of small-mindedness, and small-heartedness." But he said he was unaware of any plans to protest the Brooklyn parades.
 LYNETTE HOLLOWAY
 
 
 
Battling Parades

 
 
 
THE BROOKLYN IRISH AMERICAN PARADE IN PARK SLOPE

 
AGE: 19 years
GRAND MARSHAL: Al Jennings, executive director of Downtown Brooklyn Development Association
NUMBER OF DAYS AFTER ST. PATRICK'S DAY: 3
MARCHERS EXPECTED: 15,000
ORGANIZERS' ESTIMATE OF SPECTATORS: 20,000
NUMBER OF GROUPS: About 60, including the Ancient Order of Hibernians; the Emerald Societies of the Police Department, the Fire Department, the Department of Sanitation and the Board of Education; Public School 107; Public School 154 and army marching band
ENTRY: By invitation only
SPONSOR: The Brooklyn Irish American Parade Committee
 
 
 
THE BAY RIDGE ST. PATRICK'S DAY PARADE

 
AGE: 1st year
GRAND MARSHALL: Edward J. Smith, former president of the Uniform Fire Officers Association, Local 854
NUMBER OF DAYS AFTER ST. PATRICK'S DAY: 10
MARCHERS EXPECTED: 3,000
ORGANIZERS' ESTIMATE OF SPECTATORS: 180,000 people
NUMBER OF GROUPS: About 40 so far, including the U.S. Army Honor Guard, the New York City Housing Police Bag Pipe Band, the Bay Ridge Community Council, the Bay Ridge School of Dance and the 17th of May Norwegian Day Parade Committee.
ENTRY: Applications accepted up to a week before the parade.
SPONSOR: Fifth Ave. Board of Trade and the Ancient Order of Hibernians

GRAPHIC: Map: Park Slope Parade Route; Bay Ridge Parade Route

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available PARADES & MARCHES (92%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MAYORS (74%); RELIGION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1994



809 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Sound Bytes;
Tough-Talk Consultant To a Darwinian Industry

BYLINE: By Glenn Rifkin

 BODY:
AS founder and president of Forrester Research Inc., the Cambridge, Mass., consulting firm, George Forrester Colony has become one of the most quoted consultants in the world of high technology. Mr. Colony's early proselytizing about client/server computing -- as far back as 1987 -- put him in the spotlight as that computing trend has become the watchword of the 1990's. Forrester Research is now predicting an annual market of $4.5 billion for client/server hardware and software by 1996.
After five years at the Boston-based high-tech consultancy the Yankee Group, Mr. Colony started Forrester in 1983, fascinated with the Darwinian nature of high technology. "In our industry," he said, "change can be fast, brutal and unforgiving." 
 Question: How do you define client/server computing?
Answer: We have a very simple definition. It is desktop computers cooperating with computers known as servers to do a job.
Q: How did this concept come together?
A: We spent a lot of time trying to figure out what the impact of the PC was really going to be. We began to believe that the only way the PC could become a corporate citizen was if it had an intimate linkage with some bigger computer or server. The only way that could happen was that there had to be a revolution in software. There had to be a splitting of the software into a desktop element and a server element with lots of cooperation going on between the two. Until 1989, there was a lot of skepticism on the part of users, and then they quickly began to turn toward client/server.
Q: What made them turn?
A: Users needed a way to leverage the PC. They saw all these PC's on desks, a lot were not even turned on during the day, and they began to believe they had to somehow get a return from these. And they were frankly sick of paying very high prices for proprietary architectures, for Digital VAXes and I.B.M. AS/400 minicomputers. They began to see that client/server could be a cheaper way to deliver MIPS [millions of instructions per second].
Q: Is client/server for everyone?
A: If you have an AS/400 or a VAX and you're happy and it's getting your job done, then don't worry. You're getting the return on technology from those machines.
Q: How many times have you been quoted in the press in the past year?
A: Hundreds of times. We get quoted because we're not afraid to tell it like it is and take a position. As an example, I've taken a position that Microsoft NT [a client/server software system] will not be successful. That tends to get you quoted.
Q: Is it dangerous for a consultant to be tied too closely to one idea?
A: I think so. Truthfully, Forrester doesn't spend much time on client/ server computing these days. We're spending most of our time on what we call social computing, the idea that computing is headed out into the hands of consumers and that as that happens, there will be a new connection between large companies and their customers defined by technology. An example would be on-line transactions like home banking or ads on Prodigy.
Q: What will the landscape look like in five years?
A: We've gotten about all the return we're going to get from the PC as a file system, with Novell's Netware. But once client/server is really injected into these large companies, they're going to get another bump of return, so client/server will give them more productivity and more bang per MIP.
However, after that last return on technology, the industry will be in what I call an iron box. The iron box is basically an environment dominated by three companies: Intel, Microsoft and Novell. I believe there is going to be ever-decreasing profit from any vendor in that box aside from the three monopolists. It's a rigged game.
The smart vendors and leaders are now saying, that game is over. The only way for companies to prosper in the future is to get out of that iron box and find new markets. I actually believe the classical computer business in 1995 -- the Digitals, Dells, Apples, I.B.M.'s -- will be zero growth.
 
George Forrester Colony
 
 Born: June 24, 1953; Keene, N.H.
 
 Education: A.B., government, Harvard College.
 
 Noncomputer reading: "Captain James Cook," by Alan Villiers.
 
 Drives: 1994 Volvo 850.
 
 Ideal escape: The lakes of northern New York.
 
 Hobbies: "Country music. I play banjo."
 
 Home: Concord, Mass.
 
 Workday: 8:30 A.M. to 6:30 P.M.
 
 Family: Wife, Ann, a lawyer, and two sons, ages 6 and 3.
 
 PC: Dell 486D/50.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (92%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (92%); YANKEE GROUP (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION NETWORK SERVERS (91%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); 

PERSON: RIFKIN, GLENN; COLONY, GEORGE FORRESTER MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



810 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 7943 words

HEADLINE: Escape From New York

BYLINE: By Chip Brown; Chip Brown is a contributing editor of Esquire.

 BODY:
Now there were no more poll results to spin, no more secession hotline calls to field, no more parchment declarations to sign at goofy news media events that poignantly managed not to attract the news media. At last, the front-page, days-until-the-vote countdown stood at zero. The secessionists could rest. They had carried their crusade to churches and fairs and luncheons. They had stood in the ferry terminal passing out Vote Yes bumper stickers and Vote Yes wooden nickels. Vote Yes wooden nickels were practically the coin of the realm now, scattered from Tottenville to St. George, and only some pretentious, hairsplitting outsider -- somebody from the other side of the bridge or across the water, somebody off-island -- would bother asking why true believers devoted to a cause would promote it with symbols of counterfeit. (They got a cheap bulk deal is why, but never mind.)
Practically every true believer who had carried the standard turned out for the Election Night celebration at the Island Chateau in Grasmere. The secessionist politicians were led by State Senator John J. Marchi, the conservative Republican and classicist who had quoted Sophocles in the preamble of the proposed new city charter ("the city is the people"), and who was saluted that very day in The Staten Island Advance as "the Father of Secession." For the business view, Joe Madory, a banker, could be heard telling friends he'd just returned from Poland and, damn if they weren't talking about Staten Island and secession over there! 
 Indeed, tonight marked the most effervescent political evening on Staten Island since 1894, when the farmers and watermen of the county voted 4 to 1 to consolidate with the city. To underscore the excitement, the convention room at the Chateau had been gussied up with blue and green balloons; a pair of Trident-size roast beef subs were docked by urns of coffee; a cash bar was hopping. The local knockouts preening in front of the Vote Yes pumpkins had had their nails done for the occasion. Eleanor P. Langworthy donned her Vote Yes earrings and was passing out copies of her secessionist ballad, set to the tune of "America the Beautiful"; as with the wooden nickels, the lyrics had connotations she probably didn't intend: "Put fear aside/Vote Yes with pride/It's time to seal our fate."
You'd think there might be some anxiety, what with all these portents of fraud and doom about, but the secessionists were too giddy to fret. Given their status as residents of "the forgotten borough" -- the sorry Cinderella sister in New York's dysfunctional family -- maybe the giddiest aspect of all was the attention. For a long time, it seemed to secessionists that their crusade had received less coverage than the chicken that played tic-tack-toe in Chinatown. Now a row of television cameras faced the makeshift podium; fancy-pants correspondents were adjusting their earpieces. Even a Japanese network was preparing a story. Secessionists could savor the novel inconvenience of having to step around television monitors and cables, and of finding their parking places usurped by uplink trucks waiting outside to broadcast Cinderella's revolution to the world.
If revolution was what it was.
That was the hard thing to know -- what the night was really about. Updated returns flowed in. The anticipated 2-to-1 margin materialized. The crowd cheered. A hired guitarist burst out with "Let the Good Times Roll!" and a Vote Yes founder, Gary Johnson, waltzed around the room like the father of the bride, saying: "Great day! Great day!" But it was as hard to gauge what the mandate was expressing on a deeper level as it was to characterize the people who had worked so diligently to produce it. They were buying cotton-poly T-shirts proclaiming Staten Island "the first city of the 21st century," but their city was still a fancy, the newly ratified charter just a blueprint, the resounding vote a mere snapshot of the popular will. The question of whether the borough would be re-established as an independent city belonged to the New York State Legislature and the Governor, but it was unlikely even their further deliberations would answer the larger questions of the victory that night -- foremost among them being what, exactly, is a city?
Were the secessionists as they saw themselves -- visionary reformers with a righteous cause? With only 3 of 51 votes in the City Council, Staten Islanders were convinced they had no real say in local government, not that "local" was the best word for a City Hall with a budget bigger than that of any state in the union except New York and California. What did Staten Island need with equipment to battle skyscraper fires in Manhattan? Or cops to baby-sit United Nations diplomats? Why should suburban Staten Islanders have to comply with an urban building code that required them to put steel beams under wooden decks? Why shouldn't they run their own schools, patch their potholes, develop their waterfront, tend their parks and control their dump -- the mind-bending, gull-swarmed, methane-emitting landfill at Fresh Kills.
Critics saw secessionists differently. Islanders were the envoys of an increasingly fragmented and dangerous age in which polities were organized around the shibboleths of racial identity. The rhetoric of self-governance put a nice face on white flight, a wholesale attempt to escape the headaches of presumably inner-city problems like drugs, crime, homelessness. Moreover, secession's threat to pluralism -- the social contract at the heart of democracy -- wasn't limited to Staten Island. Breakaway fevers were firing up parts of California, Idaho, Florida and Illinois; citizens who might once have tried to resolve differences with the beleaguered arts of negotiation and compromise were now bent on redrawing maps and building walls.
Even more virulent forms of separatist fevers were erupting abroad. Staten Island and places like it were where the politics of identity started; where they ended were places like Bosnia and Azerbaijan and a dozen other fresh hells. However nonviolent the Staten Island campaign might be, critics of secession argued it was the first step down a slippery slope that risked the abyss of civil war. And really, was it such an unreasonable fear, given how willing New Yorkers already were to shoot each other for vastly more trivial reasons than political differences?
Short of civil unrest, the more pressing concern was that secession issued a stunning rebuke to the very idea of the city. Secessionists, in some sense, were giving up on the liberal dream of alchemy-in-the-melting-pot that has been the transcendent principle of New York for more than a century. Secession was proof that the city government no longer worked, a notion shared to some extent by the new Republican Mayor, whose carefully hedged stance on secession reflected his need to keep Staten Island in New York for the sake of his own political future. The great, encompassing city -- great in part because of its universalist pretensions -- would go on with or without Staten Island, but if the politics of identity prevailed, would there be any currency in the metropolitan ideal?
These were the extremes of the debate in the breakaway borough where support for secession generally mixed a bill of gripes with a list of idealistic aspirations. Consider yet another song inspired by the muse of secession, this one with lyrics by Joe Santangelo and music by his brother Robert. When the victory was all but official, Robert strapped on a guitar and grabbed the mike at the Island Chateau and began to sing:
I want a place where kids can play,
I want to live right by the bay. . . .
And I want to know that I'll have a say. . . .
I want to live in Staten Island
'Cause it's the place that I call my land. . . .
I want a boat ride to my job.
I want a train where kids don't rob. . . .
Ira Gershwin it wasn't, but on that euphoric night, it seemed as ill mannered to find fault with Joe's island rhymes as to broach the subject of secession's darker motives. Besides, Robert had a big finish, and it brought down the house.
O, STATEN ISLAND! -- 38,507 acres of incongruity and contradiction where the "hills" are bedrock and the "mountains" are garbage, and the official flower is either the pinkster azalea or the escaped plastic bag. Staten Island is the land of Kiwanis Clubs and big gas guzzlers for sale on small front lawns, and guys who don't split the checks with their dates, and girls who wear high heels at the grocery store and marry young. The New York Police Department used to banish screw-up cops to Staten Island, where they could contemplate their mistakes on actionless streets that followed the foot trails of the Hackensack and Raritan Indians.
If Staten Island, population 380,000, were a separate city, it would be the second-largest in New York state. It would be the 39th-largest in the United States. It would be bigger than any city in New England except Boston, and without a doubt, it would be second to none in the department of curious facts and vivid characters. Wars erupted on Staten Island over stolen pigs and whisky trades gone sour. Attorney General Hendrick Van Dyck shot an Indian woman dead for picking peaches in his orchard. Staten Island was once home to the world's largest above-ground liquid natural gas tank, and to Elizabeth Ann Bayley Seton, the first Catholic saint born in America, and to Salvatore (Sammy the Bull) Gravano, the famous mob canary. Thoreau worked on Staten Island tutoring the children of Emerson's brother, Judge William Emerson. Staten Island had 22 species of orchids then, and more than 1,000 ponds. Today the score is orchids 6, ponds 28, and in place of Thoreau and the Judge, there's Ricky Schroder and Steven Seagal.
The high drama of last fall's secession campaign had as much to do with the insular identity of Staten Islanders as it did with their zeal for the nuts and bolts of local governance. There is something about Staten Island -- something in the nature of islands, probably -- that gives people a collective sense of themselves. The sharper the geographical definition, the sharper the psychological identity. Obituaries in The Staten Island Advance routinely note that a resident who lived 80 years in New Dorp but happened to have spent his first three months in Canarsie is a "Brooklyn native." But then, no matter how recently arrived immigrants to Staten Island are, they quickly assume insular coloration, displaying the same native defensiveness, the same pride in local attractions. It was pointed out to me more than once that of the five boroughs, only Staten Island has a county fair with bed races and ribbons for the worthiest zucchini.
Indeed, Staten Island has the feel of a middle-class suburb not so far removed from the cock crow of vanished farms. The N.Y.P.D. cruisers and city buses look misplaced. Sumac is as liable to obscure a street sign as graffiti. "When something evil happens, you can go out the next day and meet somebody who knows something about what happened," says Judy McMillen, director of education at Historic Richmond Town. "The kid who got stuffed in a Dumpster in Great Kills -- my son knows someone who went to school with him. He was doing drugs." The population is 80 percent white, heavily Italian; the Right to Life Party is active. Neighborhoods are shaded with tall oaks and catalpas. Even with all the land cleared for jerry-built condos in the southern end, more trees stand on Staten Island now than at any time in 200 years. The streets are lined with single-family homes, many with small porches and white plastic chairs. The soccer fields have actual grass, basketball rims actual nets. You'd hardly know you're in New York except for the undertone of sweet-sour misanthropy when people say "Have a nice day."
Last fall's vote affirmed the identity of Staten Islanders, which is to say it was a tribute to their contradictions -- to a psyche that pirouettes on paradox. One minute islanders sound like Cinderella, bemoaning their second-class status; the next, like some post-feminist Rapunzel, too content in her sheltered keep to compromise her health with a syphilitic prince. Staten Islanders complain about "city" schools, but then they graduate the highest percentage of high-school students. They wring their hands over the cost of living, but then their median family incomes top all the other boroughs. They extol the quality of life in "the sweetest slice of the Big Apple" (as their Chamber of Commerce puts it), but then, oh what those shake-and-rattle roads will do to your front end. Crime preys on everyone's thoughts -- Kathryn Rooney, a charter commission member, reflexively hits the power door lock on her station wagon -- but the island has a high resident population of cops and much lower rates of robbery and homicide than the other boroughs.
Perhaps if Staten Islanders embody contradictions, it's because they have been suckled on them. Their "green belt" of parks, wetlands and forests is as close to authentic rustication as you can get in the Big Apple. But then the Arthur Kill, which separates the island from New Jersey, is as close to some of the nation's most polluted water as anyone would ever want to get. Just four years ago, the kill was scotched by 567,000 gallons of Exxon heating oil. The air may reek sweetly of the sea, but when the wind shifts, the prevailing westerlies bring the stench of the world's largest landfill and the apocalyptic cologne of New Jersey, where hundreds of nearby industrial plants annually release 14 million pounds of toxic chemicals into the air (including 1.7 million pounds of known or suspected carcinogens) and 39 million pounds of toxic chemicals into the water. Just when you think you're light years from the hurlyburly of New York, someone starts firing an Uzi in the green belt. Just when you think you've stumbled onto some remnant of the pristine world -- the world that moved Thoreau to say "the whole island is like a garden" -- you get that report on airborne carcinogens. It's wonderful that Staten Island is one place in New York City where you can actually see some stars at night, but beware of falling airplane parts; not long ago an engine cowling or some such thing peeled off a jet outbound from Newark.
The truth is, for all their independence, Staten Islanders are webbed up with rest of the city -- particularly with dense, chimerical, self-regarding Manhattan, which represents the best and worst of New York to all the so-called outer boroughs. Each morning, some 65,000 Staten Islanders ferry and bus to work in "the city," as they call it, and it's in their edgy relations with Manhattan that the Staten Island penchant for paradox manifests most keenly. Islanders are at once too close to the city and too far away, too close to its problems, too far from its services. Even the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, their connection to New York, is reviled as the passageway of corrupting urban influence and change. Island life can be divided into Before the Bridge and After the Bridge, and such are the perverse contours of the island psyche that even B.B. people, who wish the bridge had never been built and their rural isolation never breached, get all lathered up about the prohibitively high tolls.
The estrangement from the family of New York is registered in countless other ways, minor slights that have been nursed over the years. On Sundays, for instance, copies of The New York Times come with the New Jersey Weekly. The Staten Island historian John-Paul Richiuso has noted that Staten Island has been a dumping ground for things the rest of the city didn't want -- from the yellow-fever patients quarantined in St. George in the 19th century, to the nation's largest daily allotment of garbage, to a series of proposed prisons and homeless shelters that Islanders have so far fended off. The city has even proposed to dispose on Staten Island the apparatus of disposal, circulating a plan to grind junked toilets into ceramic road gravel.
Last fall, at Staten Island's 43d annual Fence Show, people were admiring a conceptual art piece called "Where's the Picnic?" which took for its theme this complicated relation between the borough and the rest of New York. "Where's the Picnic?" was the work of Guy T. Crowl, a burly secessionist who owns a T-shirt shop in Westerleigh. He'd installed the piece next to a bunch of paintings that showed fetuses getting their eyes picked out by sea gulls at the dump. An outsize blue T-shirt was hanging on the cyclone fence with four orange Sanitation Department T-shirts around it. One sported a rose. Crowl had attached a toilet seat above the neck of the big T-shirt, and inside the toilet seat, had strung up an apple core, which was attracting a lot of bees at the moment. Some cardboard ants were marching out of one of the big sleeves toward a pile of sand; a placard read, "Higher Taxes, Hate, Crime, Poor Education, Corruption, Filthy, Drugs."
"The rose represents the people of Staten Island," Crowl explained when I asked him to deconstruct "Where's the Picnic?" "The big T-shirt represents the problems of a city with 11 million people. The toilet seat represents the head because the city is a sewer, and the apple represents the core of New York, which is rotten. The ants represents jobs leaving for New Jersey. New York is steering business away from Staten Island. The majority of problems here are sent here by the city. I worked in the city for 13 years, I've seen muggings, I've seen a shootout, I witnessed a stabbing on the subway and a murder in Times Square. The place is filthy, people are doing odd things all the time. I saw a man on a train waving his penis around saying he had sex with Joel Steinberg. People were walking by as if it were normal. I thought, 'Wow, I don't miss this place too much.' "
It was probably beside the point in a hairsplitting, off-island sort of way, but I had to wonder if the population of New York wasn't more like 7 million than 11.
Guy Crowl shrugged. "It could be 7, it could be 11," he said. "I'm an artist. I'm just going off the top of my head."
NOVEMBER'S HISTORIC vote was only the most recent outbreak of what has been the island's chronic case of secession fever, a fever that dates back to the beginning of New York City's grand experiment in regional government. One day last fall, the archivist Hugh Powell blew the dust off a folder of crumbling news clips at the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences, and laid out a record of the secession fever that has inflamed the body politic of Staten Island over the course of the century.
Given the poky pace of change the previous 200 years, it was no wonder Staten Islanders rallied to the cause of consolidation in 1894, voting to join New York 5,531 to 1,505, the largest percentage of any counties voting. Landowners eager to boost the value of their property wanted city services -- sewers, a unified school system, police and fire protection, better roads and public transportation. At the time, ferry service to Manhattan, started in 1810 by Cornelius Vanderbilt with money borrowed from his mother for a sailboat, stopped at 6 P.M. As part of New York, Staten Islanders thought they would have better luck fighting the malarial mosquitoes that had scared off Ulysses S. Grant when he was looking for a summer home.
A century of New York City tax money has established 650 miles of sewers on Staten Island; 33,475 street lights, 18 firehouses, three police stations, 55 schools and more than 1,000 miles of paved streets. Consolidation gave Staten Island a water supply -- Catskill water reaches the island through a tunnel deep beneath the floor of the harbor. But people who'd shoot a peach thief are nothing if not prickly, and secession fever has always simmered under the surface, breaking out when some fresh insult came the island's way. Less than two years after the birth of Greater New York, the secretary of an organization called the Separation League published a letter in The Staten Islander that could have appeared last fall in The Advance with no loss of topicality: "During the past few months, many hundreds have declared themselves in favor of the Jeffersonian principle of decentralization and have become convinced that Staten Island can only become truly great when divorced from New York and incorporated as an independent city."
There were letters and appeals and inchoate movements toward secession in 1916 (the Separation League again, angered by a city proposal to build a "garbage rendering plant") and again in 1921, which also happened to be the year John Marchi was born. In 1947, irked by the soon-to-open city landfill on 2,000 acres of land at Fresh Kills, Assemblyman Edmund P. Radigan introduced a bill to create a commission to study secession. Home rule, he said, "would protect us from the city administration and other interests which oppose our development and interfere with our progress." In 1966, after the opening of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge, an upsurge of poorly planned and poorly supervised development prompted Borough President Robert Connor to appoint a yet another committee to study secession.
What triggered the most recent outbreak of secession fever was not the perennial grievance of the landfill or the blight of pell-mell development, but concern about the loss of Staten Island's boroughwide voice in city government. In 1981, the New York Civil Liberties Union charged in a Federal suit that New York City's Board of Estimate violated the one-person-one-vote principle of the 14th Amendment. The Board, which dated back to 1902, shared budget-making powers with the City Council, and had authority to grant contracts, dispose of city property and make zoning and land-use decisions. It functioned as a sort of municipal senate, with the Staten Island borough president having a vote equal in weight to the votes of the four other borough presidents, though their constituencies were much larger.
Reading the writing on the wall, John Marchi, chairman of the State Senate Finance Committee, asked his staff to examine the issues of Staten Island secession. As well as anyone, Marchi understood the equation that made Staten Islanders feel part of the city. He had grown up on the Island in a Catholic family; he had represented Staten Island in the State Legislature since 1956. He was no enemy of New York -- he had run for mayor twice, and saw value in the idea of the melting pot -- but your heritage was your heritage; it was, like wine, particular to the ground it came from. Every time he drove across the bridge, his heart lifted to see the hills of his home, ranged out from St. George to LaTourette Park.
In July 1983, Marchi's committee published the romantically entitled "Remedies of a Proud Outcast," which concluded that Staten Island secession was legally and financially feasible. The State Senator then introduced legislation to separate Staten Island from New York, but held the bill in committee pending the resolution of the court case. New York City lost; the appeals began. After six years, the case reached the United States Supreme Court, which, in the spring of 1989, affirmed the lower-court decisions -- by unanimous vote -- that the Board of Estimate was unconstitutional. Marchi wrote a letter to all the justices: "I said, 'What you have succeeded in doing is sundering a city,' " he recalled, sitting in his office in St. George last fall. "There was nothing to indicate that the Board of Estimate had impinged on the rights of the majority."
But even under the Board of Estimate, Staten Islanders didn't lack for grievances. Gov. Mario Cuomo himself had observed in 1983 that the island never had any real political clout and that Staten Islanders were the only people in the city who had to pay to drive home. As Assemblyman Robert Straniere said recently, sitting in his basement office in New Dorp: "Nowhere else in America can you find nearly 400,000 people who have less influence over their tax money, land use, social programs and public policy than on Staten Island." Straniere, a lawyer and former Marchi aide, had intervened in the city's unsuccessful defense of the Board of Estimate, convinced the case would be the most interesting and significant in the history of New York City. The most destructive aspect of the island's relationship with the rest of New York, he said, is what happened to the land -- the land the Indians had called Monocknong, island of the dark woods. "From 1953 to 1965, Mayor Wagner sold off all the land the city acquired in tax foreclosures. Thousands of acres went to developers. Trees were knocked down, wetlands were filled, hillsides were bulldozed. This was a resort community, and the zoning policy destroyed it. Communities and neighborhoods with real character were changed forever. There was a sense of community and togetherness here, and it was shattered by development, and by social and demographic changes taking place in urban areas that impact on Staten Island."
In the November 1989 election, the city's new charter lost on Staten Island but passed citywide. The new charter diminished the powers of the borough presidents, and sent the Board of Estimate to the Staten Island dump, along with Staten Island's special standing. Marchi had pushed his secession bill through the State Senate in April. A similar version passed the Assembly three months later. Democrats expected Cuomo to veto the measure, but the Governor made a surprise phone call to Marchi just before the end of the year.
"John," he said. "I have a Christmas present for you."
The bill gave Staten Islanders the chance to vote whether they wanted to study secession and initiate the process. The answer was 83 percent yes, 17 percent no. Thus, the State of New York's Charter Commission for Staten Island was set up; the law, however, reserved the final decision not for the people but for the state. John Marchi and 12 others were appointed to the commission; many of them were committed secessionists. To bring a measure of objectivity and professionalism to their findings, the commissioners hired Joseph Viteritti, a New York University professor, to be their executive director. Over the next two years, the commission held 53 public meetings and hearings on topics ranging from the question of secession itself to prospective forms of government, land use, education, housing, libraries, social services. This was no impulsive tea party. The commission took polls and wrote reports. The city of New York wrote reports. The Borough President wrote reports. All the reports came to the conclusion that Staten Island paid out less for services than it got back, but the gap was not so great that it might not be bridged. It was, the commission concluded, within the means of the islanders to produce their own government.
THE CONVINCING case for why Staten Island shouldn't secede from New York has yet to be made. If the leaders of a new Staten Island city think they can train cops and patch potholes and seal their fate faster and more cheaply -- if they think they can replace stolen street signs in less than the six to seven months it takes the city to do it now -- why should the other boroughs stand in the way? It's not as if millions of New Yorkers wake up each morning thinking how glad they are that Staten Island is part of the municipal family; of those who even know where the island is, few get beyond the ferry terminal. Some polls have indicated sentiment in favor of a five-borough city, but there seems to be an equal measure of feeling that if Staten Islanders don't want to be a part of New York, then, as they say in Brooklyn. . . .
Moreover, with New York facing desperate billion-dollar deficits, the city might even save a little money if Staten Island cut loose. It costs upward of $200 million more a year to provide services to Staten Island than the city gets in return from Staten Island taxes and other revenues. And would anyone in this largely Democratic city lose sleep if the island's three representatives didn't show up for City Council meetings? Sure, the four boroughs would still need a place to dump their garbage, but disposing of the more than five million tons of trash generated each year is a problem the city will have to address with or without Staten Island; Fresh Kills cannot be kept open forever.
Granting Staten Islanders the benefit of the doubt that secession reflects mainly their desire to control their own fate, it's clear their strain of secession fever is relatively benign. They lack the high moral tone of the abolitionists who called for New England to secede from the unrighteous union. But then the campaign on Staten Island isn't motivated by anything half as malignant as the desire to perpetuate slavery in the Confederate States, or the poisonous ethnic nationalism of contemporary secession movements.
Why the opposition then? On island and off, the whole debate has been framed in narrow economic terms. Secession would cost a lot of money and create a lot of headaches. On-island opposition was led by the local N.A.A.C.P. -- blacks on Staten Island form an enclave within an enclave -- and by some retired people on fixed incomes and the teacher's union, which campaigned against secession with full-page ads in The Advance. David Goldfarb of Staten Islanders for a Unified New York sounded the fear that property-tax rates would go through the roof if Staten Island were severed from the enormous commercial tax base of Manhattan. To varying degrees, all the outer boroughs depend on Manhattan's commercial real-estate revenues; single-family homeowners, of which Staten Island has the highest percentage of any borough, pay much lower real-estate taxes than apartment dwellers in co-ops and condos. What, Goldfarb asked, would happen to the high salaries of Staten Island's senior municipal employees? "I see myself as being a New Yorker," he says, sitting in his Manhattan office. "I work here. We go to the theater here. We saw 'Cats' two years ago. My son Daniel went to Stuyvesant High School. We shouldn't turn our backs on the city. When the more affluent sections abandon the core of the city, the city falls apart."
Off-island, anti-secession arguments have been mostly an emotional melange of scare tactics and dismissive opinions. Secession would be a blow to New York's "pride." It would "send the wrong message." (Not that there weren't already plenty of wrong messages being sent by things like the murder rate, or statistics that had 20 percent of New York kids carrying firearms to school and 45 percent of New Yorkers saying they would leave the city if they could afford to.) "Secession is fractious and divisive," says Claire Moise of the Mayor's Task Force on Staten Island Secession, which has survived the change at City Hall. "In what sense are the interests of the people of Staten Island different from those of the rest of the city? I think people are more alike than they are different, and that this insistence on a separate identity is scary. Is it unacceptable to be part of a political minority? When the fact that your parents came from England or Russia or Africa is more important than the fact that you're a New Yorker. . . ." She let the thought shudder off into the realm of the unthinkable.
Until Giuliani's victory, the most prominent defenders of the status quo have been, not surprisingly, the city's Mayors, who seemed to feel that history would condemn them if New York disintegrated on their watch. "We want you to stay in this world-class city of ours," Mayor Dinkins said last April, when he made a rare trip to Staten Island to testify before the Charter Commission. And why should they stay? Secession could raise Staten Islanders' property taxes, Dinkins warned; students would lose access to New York's special high schools, and New York's residency laws would require 4,000 Staten Islanders to move if they wanted to keep their city jobs. "One city -- one people," he concluded. "That is what we are and that is what we need to remain."
In Dinkins's case the concluding assertion of a transcendent unity was all the more Lincolnesque (and certainly more poignant and perhaps more credible) because it flew in the face of his political self-interest. Had Staten Island and New York been two cities and two peoples last fall, Dinkins would still be Mayor.
And that's exactly the bind of the man who replaced him. During the mayoral race, Giuliani was careful not to alienate his crucial bloc of voters on Staten Island. His position now remains what it was then. He said he wanted Staten Islanders to stay in the city, but he wouldn't lobby against secession if they voted for it. He said he wanted a chance to treat their fever with the cold compress of governmental reform. Before islanders opted out, let him first cut the size of city government, decentralize power, reinvigorate the borough presidencies.
The magnitude of his dilemma cannot have escaped the new Mayor. If he helps Staten Island go free, he loses the votes that could re-elect him. If he goes back on his pledge, he also loses the votes that could re-elect him. Plus he cuts the odds of receiving a life jacket, should he be in the middle of the harbor with the Staten Island Ferry sinking underneath him. Already his plans to revamp city government have run afoul of Peter Vallone, the City Council Speaker -- another piece of New York fractiousness that can only deepen the conviction of Staten Islanders that wisdom lies in ejecting themselves from the game. Secessionists have been saying for years it doesn't matter who's mayor or what crumbs are tossed the island's way. "It wouldn't matter if they gave a chauffeured limousine to every resident," says John Marchi. "We're not stepping into a golden cage. No inducements can be extended that are co-extensive with personal freedom and democracy."
In the dismissal of Staten Island's political aspirations, there is a kind of liberal snobbery at work, the city-center snobbery of Manhattan. As Allen Buchanan suggests in his book "Secession: The Morality of Political Divorce from Fort Sumter to Lithuania and Quebec," secession offends the liberal vision of the metropolis -- of which New York, however beleaguered, is still the paradigm. That one group would deliberately segregate itself affronts the idea of the city as a place where the whole is greater than the parts, where strength comes from diversity, where the confluence of cultures and races and classes promotes the commonweal. Secession is the sour note in the city's sweet symphony.
Sour, but hardly un-American. We are a country of insular communities, segregation-minded clans and orthodoxies. Polities are constantly shifting. A generation ago, Norman Mailer and Jimmy Breslin ran a highly publicized -- and woefully unsuccessful -- campaign for mayor and president of the City Council on the platform that New York City secede and form the 51st state. To jump on Staten Island secessionists for their crimes against the inclusive liberal vision is hypocrisy. Secession is only one of the more highly visible forms of boundary-building that occur daily in the city. New Yorkers are constantly segregating and defining themselves by class and race and neighborhood; by gang insignia, designer labels and handgun preferences. They are constantly being segregated and defined by banks and co-op boards, by stereotypes of race and job and age and class. The city trembles with signs and codes. It is balkanized into hundreds of subtle enclaves. There are millions of acts of personal secession, as people sequester themselves from what they find overwhelming -- those, that is, who haven't quit the multicultural experiment altogether, weary of the drug trade, the gantlets of panhandlers, the homicidal teen-agers, the scarcity of jobs, the high taxes, the antics of the rich and the weasels writing about them . . . weary most of all of feeling guilty that they don't have the imagination to love their neighbors or embrace the ecumenical idealism preached by well-meaning leaders.
What most offends the city's liberal gospel is the implication of Staten Island's mass white flight from urban troubles. What secession suggests, according to Prof. Richard Briffault of Columbia, is "that different groups and interests in a complex urban setting cannot co-exist in one democratically governed local unit." Writing in Columbia Law Review, Briffault argues that "being a part of New York City forces Staten Island, which in most demographic, economic and social senses is far more like a suburb, to come to grips with urban problems."
But can the point really be that it's morally edifying for the people of Staten Island to grapple with the squalor and headaches of urban life? Why limit these benefits to Staten Island? From midtown Manhattan, it's much easier to get to Greenwich, Conn., than to Tottenville. Why not treat Greenwich residents to the same privileges? Manhattan, with 52,000 people per square mile, exerts a gravitational effect not just on Staten Island, with 6,400 people per square mile, but on more than 2,000 local governments in the tri-state area, among them some 780 municipalities. Briffaulty logic suggests all of them would do well to sponsor fields trips to New York for a bracing urban tonic.
Much of the reaction to Staten Island's secession campaign has been to treat it as a joke. Manhattan, however, can condescend in many ways. When the Bar Association of the City of New York was planning a forum on secession, they assembled a distinguished panel that included no one from Staten Island.
"You might want to invite somebody from Staten Island," said Joseph Viteritti when they called to invite him, looking for someone to speak in defense of secession.
"We would like to," he was told, "but we don't think there's anybody of the caliber of this association."
Viteritti was amazed. "If there's one compelling reason for Staten Islanders to leave, it's the attitude that other New Yorkers, especially in Manhattan, have about them."
After two years of studying secession, Viteritti had been struck by a couple of points: "One is the revolt against big government," he says. "For the first time in a century, we are examining the experiment. Is it possible to have a local government bigger than most states, and still be a local government? Local government is supposed to be participatory, face to face. New York's not like that. Secondly, we're also seeing one of the fundamental questions of democracy, which is the ability of the majority to accommodate the interests of a minority." Strangely enough, this is a point often raised on the left in defense of minority voting rights, and is seldom associated with conservative causes.
Manhattan snobbery effloresced anew after the election. In an About New York column in this newspaper headlined "A Borough Gives Notice (Or Hadn't You Noticed?)," an off-islander was quoted saying that Staten Island leaving New York was "like Gummo leaving the Marx Brothers." Another wiseacre added that the loss to the city could be grave because "culturally . . . we'd lose the landfill." This drollery was lost on Staten Islanders, who were -- to put it mildly -- apoplectic. In the politics of identity, wars are fought over metaphors; this was the contemporary equivalent of peach theft in the communal orchard. "It's as offensive to those of us at the butt end of the joke as an ethnic joke would be," says Hedy Hartman, the president of the Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences, who only moved to Staten Island three and a half years ago but has obviously acquired an island sensibility. "This kind of geographically based humor is not acceptable."
As Staten Islanders have made evident, it is getting harder and harder to find the connective tissue that holds New York together. What is there besides the collective misfortune of being stuck in traffic, or the chance to page through the city's vast catalogue of vanity and folly? Certainly hating the city has given Staten Island a cohesiveness. But there are minorities within minorities. Independence could well open new rifts between the rural southern part of the island and the more urban northern part. The city of Staten Island could look like old Berlin, divided in half by the Staten Island Expressway. Its politicians, who used to get by complaining about their powerlessness, would feel the burden of real responsibility.
But to the degree that secession is how Staten Islanders have chosen to express their unhappiness with New York, they are no different from New Yorkers in the other boroughs; airing one's displeasure with New York is an entitlement -- perhaps even a civic duty -- of residency. Every generation projects onto the city its fantasies of immortality, and its disillusionments. New York to Thomas Jefferson contained "all the depravities of human nature." New York to Emerson was "a sucked orange." In 1856, long before pubescent thugs were accessorizing with 9-millimeter automatics, Whitman said New York was "one of the most crime-haunted and dangerous cities in Christendom." A "beautiful catastrophe," said Le Corbusier. "Appalling, fantastically charmless, elaborately dire," said Henry James.
Now each week, some new and evermore shocking crime redefines the meaning of depravity and frays the liberal dream. Fifty years ago, 44 people were killed by gunshots in New York; in 1992, the death toll was more than 1,500. Some 320,000 jobs have vanished since 1989. Even New York's innate chauvinism, its unassailable belief in its own pre-eminence, has faltered, if the "whither New York" appraisals by columnists are any indication. Ten years ago, official visitors who arrived with gifts for the Mayor -- Ming vases in some cases -- received in return a crummy plastic pen, the implication being not that the city was cheap but that as the center of the world, New York itself was gift enough. Confidence in the worth of that gift has wavered. Today, some official delegations get Tiffany apples. Whatever the city has gained in the gesture's touch of class, it has lost in the implication that the real apple is insufficient.
Staten Islanders may speak for all New Yorkers when they complain of a community under siege, a loss of intimacy and connection with the city -- a government confounded by its own massiveness. New York has the disadvantage of trying to solve neighborhood problems with a regional apparatus, which is like trying to run errands with a tractor-trailer. It is no longer axiomatic that bigger is better. Some studies make the case that the optimal size of a city is between 40,000 and 200,000 people. Places like Danbury, Conn., win all those specious awards for "livability."
It is no longer clear that New York is quite the bastion of liberalism either. The Republican Mayor's decentralization proposals are not revolutionary -- there's always been a tidal flow of power between the center and the provinces. But the trends are dramatic and may well reflect a shift in the way we think about cities and ourselves in them. The movement to strengthen the power of the boroughs, which were weakened with the centralization of city government in 1935 and 1961, and again with the charter revision in 1989, can be read like Staten Island's vote for secession: as an effort of citizens to take more control over their neighborhoods, an effort to regain control over a world that has enlarged past the point of comprehension.
And yet such encounters with the alien are the essence of New York, as much of what makes the city unique as its capacity for rebirth. What seems pitiable in the politics of identity is the underlying fear and insecurity, the obsession with differences that gathers the anxious herd together not to celebrate community but to define it more narrowly. The dynamic is the same whether the herd is wielding racial bats in Howard Beach or sniffing disdainfully in SoHo at the fashion errors of New Dorp. If Staten Islanders can be Continued on page 60
charged with turning their backs on the city's liberal vision, so can the opponents of secession. The city rose on the strength and vitality of its immigrants. One of every four New Yorkers now living in the city arrived from somewhere else. Why shouldn't the city, as it is currently constituted and governed, have the courage of its constituents, those who left what they knew behind to try something new? Why shouldn't the city's shape and identity be as adaptable as the people who inhabit it? New York, with its 7 or 11 million people, is still where America begins, and where the tension in American democracy between the desire to reaffirm distinctions and the desire to transcend them is felt most keenly. Adaptability -- not livability -- is the saving genius of New York. Nothing said about the city is ever true for very long. If its possibilities are truly endless, if its deepest vision really does contain, as F. Scott Fitzgerald once said, "all the mystery and the beauty in the world," then its one true form is protean and can never be fixed.
TWO DAYS AFTER THE election, Guy Molinari, the Borough President, fired a cannon at the other boroughs. Molinari had artfully equivocated on secession for months, worrying about the cost of starting a separate city, but he had come out strongly for it in the end. Overnight, the politics had changed, and all the Democrats in the other boroughs who might have viewed secession as a black eye for New York now saw Staten Island as the bloc of voters who had cost their party the Mayor's office. Even so, the prospects for a bill were as murky as anything else requiring legislative action; no one was expecting to see a new city established before 1995. As for those who thought the election of a Republican mayor would dampen secession fever -- they underestimated the depth of Staten Island's historical grievances and desire for independence. There was nothing ambivalent in Molinari's cannon blasts, nothing to indicate the slightest accommodation to the existing metropolitan tradition, except that the cannon was firing blanks.
So it goes. It was left to John Marchi, the Father of Secession, to emphasize the virtues of metropolitan life, such as they had been for nearly a century, and such as they might be in the future. When the election returns had resoundingly demonstrated the people's will, Marchi mounted the makeshift podium at the Island Chateau. That he could speak fondly of a metropolis he was determined to reconfigure was yet another island paradox. He quoted from the Hanseatic League -- "City Air Makes Free" -- and invoked the legacies of Athens, Sparta and Corinth. "These are where the concepts of liberty and freedom were born," he said. "They have received an affirmation here this evening. Our opposition tried to frighten people. That was the wrong way to go. We must learn how to have confidence in our people. The best is yet to come."
He looked around proudly, wistfully. A mood had come over him. He had put his finger on it some weeks earlier when we were talking in his office. He was getting on in years, and probably would not be part of the future that was beginning to bloom tonight. Maybe there would be a plaque or something in his memory, but someone else would eat the fruit from the tree he planted. "I wish I were young," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Staten Islanders prepare to step off the ferry for yet another day in "the city." They're tired of New York's problems, New York's snobbery, New York. (pg. 20); THE BUSTLE -- The No Parking sign is familiar, but not much else about Richmond Terrace seems to say "New York City." (pg. 23); HOME TURF -- Stoop-sitters in Westerleigh, one of Staten Island's mostly quiet, mostly middle-class neighborhoods. (pg. 22); WORLDS AWAY -- The Manhattan skyline, as seen from New Brighton. (pg. 24); ANOTHER VIEW -- A Richmondtown man's daily constitutional takes him within smelling distance of the 2,500 acres of city garbage at the Fresh Kills landfill. (pg. 25)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY EDWARD KEATING/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; STATEN ISLAND (NYC); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS POLITICS (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); RELIGION (71%); FERRIES (71%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); TRENDS (62%); 

PERSON: BROWN, CHIP

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



811 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: But Can They Make Cars?

BYLINE: By Les Daly; Les Daly, a freelance writer, was for many years a senior executive in the aerospace industry.

 BODY:
FOR MANY YEARS, ROBERT WALZER AND Phil Hymer, two bright young electrical engineers, designed flight simulators for Hughes Aircraft. The products of their endeavors, intricate machines built with the most advanced technology available, enabled Air Force top guns to learn to dogfight without ever leaving the ground. Lately, though, Hymer and Walzer have been assigned to a new task: designing upscale, strap-yourself-in video games in which ordinary folks can dogfight their way through the solar system.
Their new assignment makes Hymer and Walzer participants in a real-world adventure, something called "defense conversion." For the past half century, they and the other men and women in the United States military industry have applied their considerable talents to defending our free-enterprise system. But with the arms race now receding into history, the industry has been urged to retool for the peacetime economy. "If they can build fighter planes, they can build electric cars." So goes the rallying cry heard from the critics who propose conversion as the road to salvation. 
 Managers and executives of the defense industry are bewildered and frustrated by the insistence that they convert to doing something else -- anything else -- overnight. After all, there is no precedent for an on-demand industrial revolution. Decades of serving the Government's unique conditions have estranged military contractors from the everyday economy. Indeed, in its extended isolation, the defense industry, born of a generation of adventurous tinkerers, succumbed to some of the same evils that it labored to defend against: secrecy, stultifying Government bureaucracy and insulation from free-market practices.
Defense firms generally lack the "knowledge of consumer preferences, marketing, distribution, pricing and commercial accounting," wrote Norman R. Augustine, chairman of Martin Marietta, and Kenneth L. Adelman, former head of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, in 1992. "Training in free-market principles is sorely needed if a new corporate culture is to be created." American defense company executives laughed self-consciously when they read the remarks: Adelman and Augustine were referring to the former Soviet Union, but their comments could just as easily have been directed at the American military industry.
DEFENSE CRITICS VIEW CONVERSION AS A WAY to repeat the economic excitement that followed World War II, when companies from Alcoa to Zenith stopped producing tank and airplane parts and instead filled America's driveways and homes with cars and household appliances. Conveniently overlooked, however, is the fact that those companies were simply recapturing markets they had served before the war; the postwar "conversion" was largely "reversion." The majority of today's defense industry managers, in contrast, have known only military hardware and Government customers. They cannot "convert" because they have nothing to revert to.
More important, their half-century marriage of convenience with the Government created so deep a corporate culture that the industry knows virtually nothing else. Every major defense factory in the country, for instance, has cadres of military officers on its premises. This "shadow management" scrutinizes company operations in excruciating detail -- grading the management not simply on quality and price, as might reasonably be expected, but on the way the company manages itself in every area, down to the quality of its data entry system and the number of trucks in its fleet. Some of the surveillance is a consequence of the industry's own excesses; the instances of $7,000 coffee pots, $400 hammers and falsified test reports are well known. But most of the supervision is simply a product of proliferating bureaucracy. One management consulting firm has estimated that in the 1980's more than 500,000 Government officials were at work monitoring the defense industry -- enough to fill 30 Army divisions.
This shadow management, by nature and often by design, tends to move slowly and to slow everything it touches. In the 1970's, the Navy took a whole year to decide whether the instrument lighting in the F/A-18 Hornet fighter-bomber should be red or white. Honeywell's Commercial Flight Systems Group finally withdrew its offer to build the avionics system of a new antisubmarine warplane after the Navy deliberated for two years and refused to respond to a request to waive Government contract requirements. Naomi Williamson, a contract director at Honeywell, later testified to a Senate subcommittee that the military subcontract the Navy demanded was twice as long as normal commercial contracts and incorporated, as reference, "a book of fine-print regulations." The task of reviewing it was "monumental," she testified. But the potential consequences of failing to do so were worse. In the commercial world, contract disputes are settled by negotiation, arbitration or some judgment in which one side pays the other. Failure to comply with terms of a Government contract, in contrast, can lead to prosecution.
That knowledge instills a certain hesitancy among industry managers -- what one defense executive describes as "a 'Mother, may I' attitude, coupled with a certain paranoia about doing things that are not exactly by the book." In effect, Government regulators, not company managers, are running the shop. As the head of another defense company once declared in frustration: "The only real freedom I have is the freedom not to bid."
That environment also breeds a severe aversion to taking risks of the kind required for industrial leadership elsewhere in the economy. The aversion to market risks, argues John R. Dewane, president of Honeywell's space and aviation control division, is "the single most important cultural roadblock" facing the defense industry.
And, of course, no venture is as risky, or as worthy of avoidance, as conversion. As military budgets shrink, industry managers will pursue safer money-saving options: consolidation or mergers with competitors. Any jobs created as a result will arise outside the industry, as workers, not companies, abandon the defense business for commercial fields. "We will not be defense companies doing different kinds of business," says one chief executive. "If we're not in defense, we will be different people in different companies doing different work. That's not conversion. That's replacement."
DEFENSE IS LIKE NO OTHER BUSINESS. THE performance demands for new weapons are routinely stretched beyond the state of the art to give United States forces every advantage. In adapting to those standards, the defense industry's engineers and production workers have earned a reputation -- more often appreciated abroad than at home -- for performance, reliability and quality. Yet achieving technical excellence in a Government-created and tightly controlled world does not necessarily mean military contractors should be expected to enter a commercial field already crowded with experienced competitors.
The defense industry may well have the technology to build electric cars instead of fighter planes. But who would buy a new car from a company that has never built any kind of car before -- and, for that matter, has never designed, mass-produced, distributed and serviced anything for the public? Who would buy stock?
No one recognizes this reality more clearly than the defense industries themselves. Several aerospace companies already are attempting to extend their reach into new markets, either by acquiring technically related subsidiaries or by acting as suppliers to commercial companies. Lockheed, perhaps the leader in such efforts, now supplies Motorola with military satellite technology for a global communications network that Motorola is building. Lockheed's military software is being adapted to manage giant data systems for state and local governments and track traffic violations and errant payers of child support.
But again, these initiatives do not constitute true conversion since they are unlikely to form part of Lockheed's core operations or to replace military programs and payrolls. The software project, for instance, is being carried out by the employees of a computer subsidiary, not by former missile or plane builders. Robert Caren, vice president of science and engineering at Lockheed, concedes that 60 to 70 percent of Lockheed's business operations are "not aligned to adapt readily to commercial business." Indeed, even Lockheed's hope that more than 40 percent of its business eventually will come from "nondefense" sales is hedged, since it includes forecasts of sales of defense systems to foreign customers.
THUS, PEOPLE LIKE ROBERT WALZER and Phil Hymer, the Hughes engineers working their way into the entertainment market, are anomalies. At the annual meeting of Northrop shareholders, the chairman, Kent Kresa, took pains to relieve his shareholders of any illusions that conversion will lead to job growth. "Any new business derived from these initiatives is expected to be small and will not make up for the decline we see in the defense sector any time soon."
And if the defense industry is skeptical of conversion, its prospective clients are even more so. Since conversion is so often promoted in swords-into-plowshares soundbites, John Deere, the country's largest producer of plowshares and farm equipment, would seem to be an obvious potential customer. But company executives are doubtful.
"We are looking for advances in engines and composite materials, where the aerospace industry has a lot of experience," says Bob Wismer, director of engineering at John Deere. "But we couldn't really consider them unless they realized that you can't keep adding performance and adding cost. The Government may pay for it, but the farmer won't."
Now the Government has decided not to pay for it, either. So rather than offering new ground to plow, the future of the defense industry may simply involve fewer swords, and fewer sword makers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lockheed is moving into new markets, but the company says that most of its operations will not convert to commercial business. Above, its F-16 assembly line in Fort Worth. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM LOCKHEED CORPORATION)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DTV (NASDAQ) (58%); AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: DIRECTV (58%); ALCOA INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS DEFENSE INDUSTRY (92%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); FLIGHT SIMULATORS (89%); CORPORATE CULTURE (88%); ENGINEERING (78%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); ARMS RACE (75%); WORLD WAR II (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (67%); HOUSEWARES & FURNISHINGS MFG (64%); 

PERSON: DALY, LES NORMAN R AUGUSTINE (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



812 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 30, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1981 words

HEADLINE: Profile;
An Unusual Climb At Kodak Wins Her A Place at the Top

BYLINE: By JOSHUA SHAPIRO; Joshua Shapiro is technology correspondent for The Economist.

DATELINE: ROCHESTER

 BODY:
MOST people probably haven't heard of the W. H. Brady Company, but they will soon. Katherine M. Hudson has just taken charge.
In 24 years at the Eastman Kodak Company, Ms. Hudson -- ever the risk-taker, always the visionary -- turned around one operation after another, made a controversial change in Kodak's operations that was widely emulated in American industry and made a rare jump from the computer room to general management. Computer World magazine recently listed her among the 25 people, including Ross Perot and Bill Gates, who have done the most to change the computer industry. 
 By the time she left Kodak, she was running its professional, printing and imaging division as the company's highest-ranking woman: a corporate vice president. Two weeks ago, she got her own show, leaving Rochester for Milwaukee to become president and chief executive at Brady, a maker of various industrial products, mostly for industrial safety and identification purposes, that earned $16.9 million in the year ended on July 31 on revenues of $243 million.
Ms. Hudson, 47, is already an energizing influence at Brady, until now a quiet, family-controlled operation. And tomorrow she will pause for a moment to step to the podium at a luncheon in Washington to accept the "1994 Breaking the Glass Ceiling Award" from Women Executives in State Government, an organization that honors corporate as well as governmental executives.
But this is not just the tale of a woman getting ahead. Ms. Hudson's saga is one of an executive who stands out for strategic brilliance, for an ability to see the forest for the trees, analyzing both the details and the big picture. Liz Gray, founder of Conflict Management Inc., consultants in Cambridge, Mass., who has worked with Ms. Hudson and other Kodak executives in various complex negotiations, values Ms. Hudson's straightforwardness in dealing with peers, superiors, subordinates and outsiders alike. She is "strong without authoritarian rigidity," Ms. Gray said, "very empowering while holding people accountable."
Ms. Hudson is known for taking action no matter how sacred the cows. Her main legacy is her work as chief information officer, starting in January 1988. Before then, Kodak had never had centralized data operations. Her job was to consolidate, trim and run an operation with a $500 million annual budget and 2,000 staff members that supported 65,000 personal computers and data terminals. In a first for a company this size -- $20 billion in annual sales -- she decided it would be a better use of Kodak's assets not to build a data center but to let outside contractors handle much of the work.
Many within Kodak, as well as outsiders accustomed to empire-building, not empire-shrinking, were more than skeptical. For them, information services held access to corporate jewels that were not to be entrusted to outsiders. But after studying the situation, she plunged ahead.
I.B.M. got the computer mainframe operations, with other contracts going to Businessland and Digital Equipment. Joe Valenti, manager of the data center that I.B.M. built to support the Kodak work, remembers Ms. Hudson as a "gutsy, energetic, out-of-the-box thinker." After I.B.M. made its pitch, she wrote back to say the proposal had knocked her socks off, and she sent along a pink pair to prove it. The letter, and the socks, are now framed and on display at the entrance to the I.B.M. data center. "Kathy Hudson changed the way we think about doing business," said John F. Akers, former I.B.M. chairman, referring to the idea of I.B.M. providing computer services instead of selling equipment to a customer.
By "outsourcing" these services, Ms. Hudson moved 700 jobs to the suppliers and took more than $1 billion of assets from Kodak's books, thus boosting return on assets. That endeared her to Kodak's financial executives and industry analysts alike. And she did all this -- handled the preliminary studies, negotiated the contracts, supervised the transition -- while managing a newborn son.
SHE always does things with flair. As head of information services, she adopted as a theme song "Suddenly Seymour" from "Little Shop of Horrors" -- to urge employees to "see more" of their responsibilities. She even got a large stuffed gorilla and named it Seymour.
If Ms. Hudson has a weakness, it's in following up. Once she's identified a problem and found a solution, she wants to move on. She says she's learned to offset that weakness by bringing in people who are methodical and detail-oriented.
She was once called an "accidental role model," for what she first wanted to be was an economics professor. It was only the demand that she get a job after college that started her on her current path.
Ms. Hudson, a Rochester native, traces much of her self-confidence and team mentality to her love of sports -- she competed in field hockey, basketball, soccer and volleyball. She spent two years at Oberlin College before moving to Indiana University, where she got a degree in business.
She started a Ph.D. program in economics at Cornell in 1968, just as many universities were caught up in student demonstrations. Ms. Hudson soon left, because, she said, protesters had taken over university buildings, keeping her from studying. On returning home, her parents greeted her with: "Welcome home; now, get a job."
She landed one at Rochester's biggest employer, Kodak, where her father was an information services manager, one of Kodak's "magic 500" top managers. (When she became chief information officer, she moved into the very office her father, who died in 1976, had once occupied.) She said he pulled no strings in getting her the job but did make her feel secure in the vast organization, showing her the ropes and becoming the first of her several mentors there.
She took an unusual route to the top ranks, skipping traditional Kodak career ladders like chemistry, manufacturing and marketing. After three years as a systems analyst, she did a six-year rotation in finance, working for Paul Smith, who later became chief financial officer. He had interviewed Ms. Hudson when she first applied to Kodak and had been impressed with her from the start.
In 1978, when David Metz, vice president for corporate communications, needed someone with financial experience, he asked her about her career goals. She said she "wanted to be the first female vice president of Eastman Kodak, in a job not normally associated with a female," he recalled. She did it by 1988.
She spent six years in communications and public affairs, initially as director of community relations.
AT this time, she also set up the Kodak management women's group to provide support, education and other resources for Kodak women.
Ms. Hudson urges women seeking high corporate jobs to take risks, to volunteer, and to study quantitative subjects in school. But her main advice is always, "Be yourself." Someone, somewhere, will accept you for who you really are, she believes. If women start playing games to rise in an organization, she said, they are doomed to failure.
This philosophy clearly worked for her. At old-line, conservative Kodak, she succeeded while being outspoken and unafraid to ruffle the feathers of her buttoned-down colleagues.
She showed her typical decisiveness when she met Robert Hudson in 1980. On a blind date arranged by friends, they planted buckwheat off the back of an 1850's wagon on the friends' farm. That was July 13. Soon afterward, Mr. Hudson nearly died from an intestinal ailment and was hospitalized for six months. But that didn't stop them from being married on Sept. 13, in the fourth-floor atrium of Highland Hospital in Rochester.
Mr. Hudson also worked for Kodak for many years, but in 1992 he quit to care for their son, now 6 years old. He calls it "the best job in the world."
From 1981 to 1984, she served as director of shareholder relations. She was hit with a big challenge her first day on the job when Sony introduced its Mavica camera. This was the first well-publicized electronic camera, using a diskette instead of film, and at first it seemed the possible end of Kodak. Kodak's stock quickly dropped $3, and it fell to her to help repair the damage. She tried to do so by patiently reminding people of Kodak's advantages. She said, correctly, that the Mavica would not replace 35-millimeter cameras and film. Her success earned her the trust and respect of top Kodak executives.
Ms. Hudson faced her next, and most difficult, task when in 1985 she was made general manager of instant-photography operations. She came up with the idea of building sales of instant cameras in commercial applications, like insurance adjustments, and used T-shirts with slogans to get her message across. She increased camera and film sales significantly, "taking it to Polaroid and having a blast," she said. Then, 16 months into her job, Polaroid won a patent-infringement suit that barred Kodak from making cameras and film for instant photography.
It was her lot to soften the blow for her 1,200 employees and find them new jobs within Kodak. She also had to work out a rebate program for customers holding the now-obsolete cameras. She managed to shut down the operation in the six months the court allowed.
AT the beginning of 1992, with the outsourcing arrangements working smoothly, she took over a core Kodak business, selling film, paper, plates and chemicals to the graphic arts industry. The division had stagnated, but this had been tolerated on the assumption that it was in a mature market. Within 18 months, Ms. Hudson had tripled earnings.
For her, at first, this job was the most fun ever -- she called it a glamour job because she often got to meet celebrities. What was certainly not fun was being pulled at by different parts of Kodak's complex worldwide organization. So with many of her mentors in Kodak's senior management retiring, and outside management to whom she felt less loyalty being installed, she was ripe for recruiting when a headhunter for Brady came calling.
She had never heard of Brady, but after she was told what the company did, she started seeing its products everywhere -- like signs in elevators saying to use stairs in case of fire, and wipes for cleaning computer diskettes, two markets it dominates.
On word that she would join Brady, its thinly traded stock rose 12 percent in a week, and it remains in the low 40's to which she drove it. For five decades, the company had been run by W. H. Brady Jr., a conservative, private person who shunned publicity for himself and his company. When he died, in 1988, Paul G. Gengler, a longtime Brady man, took over. With Ms. Hudson, the company has its first outsider at the helm.
The company, which is smaller than the division Ms. Hudson last ran at Kodak, sells some 20,000 products. It is almost a miniature 3M, to which it is a supplier, customer and competitor. In her first week, along with touring many company operations worldwide, Ms. Hudson propped open her office door and initiated a "Comments for Kathy" program, inviting all employees to write in with suggestions. To each one that was signed, she made a handwritten reply.
At Brady, she takes over a company with no debt and $43 million in cash. Her mission is to use her strategic skills to make the most of joint ventures and acquisitions. Ms. Hudson's first goal is to quadruple annual sales to $1 billion, while keeping current or better levels of earnings, as soon as possible. Given her track record, it shouldn't take long.
 
KATHERINE M. HUDSON
 
Born: Jan. 17, 1947; Rochester.
 
Drives: Going from '86 Dodge Ram pickup to Lincoln Town Car.
Ideal vacation: Scuba diving off St. Lucia.
 
Family: Husband, Robert; 6-year-old son.
 
Recent reading: "The Firm," by John Grisham.
Computer: Apple Powerbook

GRAPHIC: Photos: Katherine M. Hudson, new president and C.E.O. of the W. H. Brady Company, at her offices in Milwaukee. With Linda Wiechmann, a worker, in a Brady plant. (Photographs by Jonathan Kirn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: BRC (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS339950 SIGN MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS332999 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3999 MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES, NEC (91%); SIC3993 SIGNS & ADVERTISING SPECIALTIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: BRADY, W H, CO EASTMAN KODAK CO (95%); BRADY CORP (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: BRADY, W H, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); WISCONSIN, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (90%); WOMEN (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); COMPUTER MAKERS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (76%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); WOMEN WORKERS (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (56%); 

PERSON: SHAPIRO, JOSHUA; HUDSON, KATHERINE M BILL GATES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994



813 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Administration Plans Revision To Ease Toxic Cleanup Criteria

BYLINE: By JOHN H. CUSHMAN Jr., Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is about to propose a major revision of the Superfund law to ease the requirements for cleaning up some toxic waste dumps, based on plans for their use. It would also allowing community groups to be involved in the decisions.
The Administration's bill will be one of the most important and most debated pieces of environmental legislation Congress considers this year. It is expected to be made public this week with the endorsements of several Congressional leaders. 
 The 1980 Superfund law, which created the largest program administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, was intended to insure that businesses assumed the liability, currently estimated at $80 billion to $300 billion, for cleaning up thousands of sites where hazardous substances were dumped. But it has failed to achieve many goals, with slightly more than 200 sites cleaned up and with years lost to costly litigation over who should pay for the work. One reason is the law's inflexibility, a problem the new approach is meant to redress.
 
Seeking More Flexibility
 Carol M. Browner, the agency's head, and other senior officials said the changes the Administration was proposing were intended to speed the cleaning of polluted sites, to lower the costs of making them safe and to encourage economic development at many urban sites.
One way to accomplish this, they said, was to be more flexible in answering a simple question that never has a simple answer: "How clean is clean?"
"There will be different levels of clean," Ms. Browner said, in discussing the Administration's proposals in a recent meeting with reporters and editors of The New York Times.
The officials said the legislation would require cleaning a site as much as possible if the land was intended for residential development, where children might play in the dirt and people would face the greatest risk of exposure to lingering pollution. Less restoration would be needed if the site was to be used for commercial or industrial development or for other purposes, like municipal parking lots, where the risks of exposure would be less.
 
No Health Danger Is Seen
 With this approach, Administration officials said, nobody's health would suffer, even though some sites would be left partly polluted. That is because every site would have to satisfy a nationwide standard intended to insure that public health is protected, officials said. But there would no longer be an assumption, as is often the case under the existing law, that each polluted landfill might one day be used for a housing development.
That approach is widely said to produce unrealistic cleanup goals, increase costs, encourage litigation and prevent urban development on formerly polluted sites. Manufacturers have often chosen to build on undeveloped land rather than contend with the costs and delays of restoring a contaminated site in an area long used for industrial purposes. So polluted urban areas remain that way while pristine rural property is developed.
Many states, among them Michigan, have already beguntaking into account plans for land use when cleaning up polluted sites that are not on the Federal list of sites eligible for Superfund assistance. And managers of the Federal program also do so to the limited extent allowed by the complex Superfund regulations.
Several experts said approvingly that the Administration seemed to be building on lessons learned in recent years.
"If a site lies in an existing industrial area, there is no need to make it suitable to support residential uses or day care centers," said William K. Reilly, who was Administrator of the environmental agency in the Bush Administration.
"Let's use real models, the real context, the real future use of property, the likelihood that ground water will ever be used, to make decisions," Mr. Reilly said.
Representatives of several major environmental organizations, including the Natural Resources Defense Council and the Environmental Defense Fund, said they were willing to accept the more flexible approach to setting cleanup targets, although they wanted guarantees that community groups would be intimately involved in selecting remedies at each site.
The Administration has agreed to this idea and has made community involvement a central feature of its legislation, E.P.A. officials said.
 
Considering Local Interests
 At each Superfund site, the bill calls for establishing a "community working group" with representatives of different local interests to advise the E.P.A. on future land uses at the site and on how the site should be handled.
For months, the Administration has been discussing its proposed changes with important Congressional committees, business groups, the insurance industry, state and local officials and environmental groups, all with different objectives.
Many other issues will have to be resolved, including changes in the way that cleanup costs are allocated among those who dumped the waste, those who insured the polluters and the Federal Government, which pays its share from tax payments by the chemical industry into a special trust fund.
The Administration's plan is expected to retain the central concept of the Superfund liability system, which forces companies to pay for cleaning up any site where they contributed to the pollution, even if they were not the only ones responsible.
But it would change the way that liability system works, hoping to avoid endless lawsuits among parties responsible for the pollution.
Each party responsible for pollution at a site would be offered a chance to negotiate an arbitrated settlement with the Government, agreeing to pay its fair share of the total costs. Any polluter that did not settle could end up paying for costs beyond its share.
In effect, it used to be cheaper for polluters to sue each other than to pay for the cleanup; the Administration's bill is meant to reverse that.
Compared with some other knotty Superfund issues, it was fairly easy for the Administration to reach a consensus that not all sites should have to meet the same cleanup standards.
"The goal of Superfund cleanup should be to protect health and the environment," said Jonathan Lash, an environmentalist who served as chairman of the National Commission on Superfund, an advisory group including 26 leaders from environmental, political and industry groups. "It is legitimate to consider land use as you are considering potential exposures. That is a sensible way to get sites cleaned up and back into economic use."
Other expert groups that have studied the matter also support the Administration's approach.
"The decisions about the future use of the site should determine the extent of cleanup necessary," says a report on Superfund to be issued by Clean Sites, a not-for-profit company that helps negotiate cleanups under the current law. The company's board includes three former administrators of the Environmental Protection Administration, including Mr. Reilly, as well as representatives of environmental and business groups.
Even so, some environmental and community groups remain somewhere between ambivalent and skeptical about the proposal, because in the end it will mean that some sites will not be as clean as they might have been.
Bill Roberts, a Superfund expert at the Environmental Defense Fund, said it was important to consider not only how a polluted site would be used in the future but also the character of the neighborhood as a whole.
"If there are people living next door to a site, regardless of how the site is zoned, that site needs to be cleaned up as though it were residential," he said.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Environmental Balance Sheet" lists environmental cleanup categories, number of sites and estimated cost. (Source: American Enterprise Institute. Office of Technology Assessment)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (91%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (91%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); SUPERFUND (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (78%); LANDFILLS (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CITIES (70%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (68%); 

PERSON: CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BROWNER, CAROL M (ADMR) CAROL BROWNER (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



814 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: International A2-9
 
ISRAELI-P.L.O. ACCORD NEAR
Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization, meeting in Switzerland, said that they were close to breaking their deadlock on the details of Palestinian self-rule for the Gaza Strip and Jericho. A1

 BODY:
ARAFAT'S FACTION LOSING GROUND
Yasir Arafat, the chairman of the P.L.O., continues to lose support among Palestinians even as he negotiates with Israel. Loyalists feel it is important to reach agreement to halt the slide. A6
 
CZECH REPUBLIC THRIVING
The Czech Republic has low unemployment and impressive economic growth as it moves from communism to capitalism, while many of its neighbors are struggling. A1
 
U.S. APPROVES IRISH LEADER'S VISA
The United States said it would issue a visa for the head of the Irish Republican Army's political wing to attend a conference in New York, citing his recent conciliatory comments. A1
 
Britain and Ireland are hopeful on peace for Ulster. A7
 
BOSNIA INTERVENTION REPORTED
A Bosnian intelligence report appears to support observations by United Nations officials that troops from Yugoslavia and Croatia are intervening in Bosnia. A9
 
CONGO'S DEMOCRACY THREATENED
A promising transition from Marxism to democracy in Congo is threatened, with economic problems and violence stemming from longtime ethnic rivalries. A3
 
DEBATE ON VIETNAM EMBARGO
As the United States moves toward removing the trade embargo on Vietnam, the most wrenching question remaining is whether Vietnam has done enough to return the remains of Americans missing in the war. A2
 
Separatists were winning elections in Crimea. A8
 
Algeria's Defense Minister was named transitional President. A3
 
Cartagena Journal: Colombia's corner in the Caribbean. A4
 
National A10-14
 
NEW RULES FOR CLEANING DUMPS
The Clinton Administration is about to propose a major revision of the Superfund law that would ease the requirements for cleaning up some toxic waste dumps. A1
 
HISPANIC GROWTH IN FLORIDA
The county immediately south of Orlando, Fla., had the largest increase in its Hispanic population in the nation from 1980 to 1990, becoming a haven for Puerto Ricans. A10
 
NEW FACE FOR LOS ANGELES VALLEY
The San Fernando Valley was long thought of as a white, middle-class suburb of Los Angeles. But the recent quake revealed a valley undergoing radical change in its racial and socioeconomic identity. A11
 
Five people suspected of trafficking in food stamps were arrested. A11
 
The pornography industry was set back by the quake. A11
 
CLINTON HEALTH PLAN DEFENDED
Hillary Rodham Clinton argued in an interview that the uncertainty over the President's health care plan was misplaced. A12
 
DEFENSE NOMINEE'S CAMPAIGN
A priority of William Perry, the Defense Secretary nominee, is to revise the Pentagon's cumbersome system of acquiring arms. His comfortable relationship with industry may give a boost to his effort. A12
 
REHABILITATING A BLACK CADET
A South Carolina senator has introduced legislation to commission posthumously a black West Point cadet who was found unconscious and beaten a century ago. A10
 
NEW ROCKET TO BE KILLED
A rocket that takes off and lands vertically, and may greatly cut the costs of going into space, is about to be canceled by the Pentagon. A13
 
MENENDEZ JURY SPLIT BY SEX
A battle between men and women on Erik Menendez's jury doomed the chances for a verdict, a group of female jurors said. A13
 
KEVORKIAN PUSHES BALLOT EFFORT
Dr. Jack Kevorkian began his ballot drive for a doctor-assisted suicide amendment, telling an audience, "What this is all about is the right not to have to suffer." A13
 
Indiana Journal: Jimmy Stewart's hometown starts a museum. A14
 
Metro Digest B1
 
A CONSERVATIVE MAVERICK
It was a Herbert London kind of crowd: middle class and discontented. He meets with such groups in New York weekly as he campaigns for the Republican and Conservative gubernatorial nomination. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-17
 
Theater: "Hello Again." C13
 
Film: Critic's Notebook. C13
 
"Car 54, Where Are You?" C16
 
Music: "Street Scene" in Houston. C13
 
Stewart Copeland and friends at Town Hall. C14
 
Books: "How We Die." C17
 
Television: Double exposure for Bill Cosby. B6
 
Sports C1-12
 
Baseball: Properties chief may be out. C11
 
Basketball: Cal beats No. 1 U.C.L.A. C10
 
Minnesota embarrasses St. John's. C10
 
Knicks back in stride. C8
 
Brown's role on Nets expanding. C8
 
Boxing: Chavez rues first defeat. C9
 
Columns: Anderson on the Bills C2
 
TV Sports C4
 
Super Bowl: Cowboys send Bills to 4th straight defeat. C1
 
Thomas's fumble the turning point. C5
 
Horse Racing: Holy Bull wins Hutcheson. C9
 
Olympics: Harding's participation up to U.S.O.C. C7
 
Tennis: Three Slams in row for Sampras. C10
 
Obituaries B8
 
Aleksandr Adamovich, Belarussian author and political activist.
 
Bahjat Talhouni, Prime Minister of Jordan.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Right on the money.
 
Community policing.
 
Washington's secret garden.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Running the gantlet.
 
William Safire: Who lost Russia?
 
Richard P. Nathan: Welfare, work and the real world.
 
Chronicle B6
 
Bridge C14
 
Crossword C17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SWITZERLAND (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ALGERIA (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CROATIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (93%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (93%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (84%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); ISRAEL (94%); CZECH REPUBLIC (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); SWITZERLAND (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); COLOMBIA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ALGERIA (79%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CROATIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ARMED FORCES (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); SUPERFUND (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (67%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (64%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (63%); ARRESTS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%); WELFARE FRAUD (50%); FOOD STAMPS (50%); PORNOGRAPHY (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



815 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Indiana Journal;
Yes, Ma'am, Actor Has A Museum

BYLINE: By MICHAEL deCOURCY HINDS, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: INDIANA, Pa.,

 BODY:
People here in Jimmy Stewart's hometown spent years suggesting that different types of museums be erected in his honor. Mr. Stewart, as shy off screen as on, rejected them all. But when he was told last fall that a museum dedicated to him could bring a financial lift to this depressed coal-mining region, he had a change of heart.
Events began to take on the appearance of scenes from a sequel to "It's a Wonderful Life," the 1946 movie that enshrines small-town values and remains Mr. Stewart's favorite. In the movie, George Bailey, played by Mr. Stewart, is a soft-hearted operator of a savings and loan who is saved from suicide by an angel and helped out of a tight spot by generous neighbors rallying to his side. 
 In "Wonderful Life II," the real-life sequel, Mr. Stewart is enthusiastically backing the museum, which local officials hope will attract at least 10,000 tourists a year to this town of 16,000 people, about 60 miles east of Pittsburgh. But true to his nature, Mr. Stewart insisted that the museum be modest. The townsfolk are following his instructions. The Jimmy Stewart Museum will not even have its own building.
The site will be a renovated, 4,500-square-foot space on the third floor of a nondescript municipal building, across the street from where the Stewart family's hardware store once stood. Organizers hope to open the $250,000 project on May 20, Mr. Stewart's 86th birthday.
The beige brick municipal building looks much like the one that housed George Bailey's saving and loan in the fictional town of Bedford Falls. The Indiana Free Library occupies the first two floors; the fourth floor, where the Masons once met, has been condemned as unsafe. The building's sluggish elevator is slightly larger than a telephone booth.
"More than 90 percent of the reason Jimmy Stewart is allowing us to do the museum is that it would be of help to Indiana," said Jay Y. Rubin, a lawyer and local film buff who is chairman of the museum committee.
It was Mr. Rubin who made the estimate of 10,000 visitors a year, but other residents say the figure is too low. They point out that the town's Christmas festival -- yes, "It's a Wonderful Life" -- brings in nearly 28,000 people to see floats and lights that recreate scenes from the movie.
Named for the Shawnee and Delaware Indians who were driven from this area, Indiana looks like a quaint New England village filled with clapboard houses and churches with white steeples. It is essentially a colorized version of Bedford Falls, which was just a Columbia Pictures set in Burbank, Calif.
Referring to the film's director, Frank Capra, Mr. Stewart has said, "If he had wanted to film that movie on location, he could have used my hometown."
The town today is not without vacant storefronts, however, and the primary employers are the Indiana County government and courts and Indiana University of Pennsylvania, which has 16,000 students.
But residents, who 10 years ago parlayed spaghetti dinners and cake sales into a bronze statue of Mr. Stewart in front of the courthouse, are not just looking for economic benefit from the museum. "My biggest fear," said Linda J. Moore-Mack, the clerk of county court and a member of the museum committee, "is that the generation growing up today will say, 'Jimmy who?' A lot of people here appreciate his contributions and want them to live on."
It seems premature to worry about people forgetting Mr. Stewart. Visitors continue to pay homage at the site of the family's hardware store, which has been replaced by a pharmacy, and at the site of Mr. Stewart's first home, which is now a parking lot for a funeral home. Mr. Stewart has not lived here since he left for college, but he comes back for special occasions, like the unveiling of his statue.
Mr. Stewart has promised to lend the museum an assortment of movie props, his military uniforms, photographs and awards, including the Academy Award he received for lifetime achievement. The museum, which will be licensed to sell Stewart knickknacks and T-shirts, is to feature Stewart films in a 52-seat theater.
Mr. Stewart lives with his wife of 44 years, Gloria, in Beverly Hills, but he has not been feeling well lately and declined to be interviewed. He issued a statement through John Strauss, his publicist of 36 years: "Naturally, I feel greatly honored that the residents of my hometown, Indiana, Pa., have decided that they want to create a museum which will bear my name. I love the town of Indiana, my birthplace, where I grew up in the happiest of families, friends and circumstances."
Mr. Strauss said he could not supply Mr. Stewart's pauses, or suggest his engaging stammer, but he doubted readers would have trouble imagining what he called the world's most imitated voice and delivery.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The town of Indiana, Pa., is trying to lift its economy by honoring a native son, Jimmy Stewart, with a museum that is as modest as Mr. Stewart himself. It is marked only by a statue of the actor. Jay Y. Rubin, left, a lawyer and chairman of the museum committee, and William Moorhead, a lifelong Stewart friend, visited the museum on Monday. (Terry Clark for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (55%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA PICTURES (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA (PA); UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (55%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); FESTIVALS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (75%); SUICIDE (72%); TRENDS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (70%); LIBRARIES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); COAL MINING (57%); HARDWARE STORES (50%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: HINDS, MICHAEL DECOURCY; STEWART, JIMMY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



816 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
G.M.'s president and chief executive said the company's North American operations had "absolutely" turned the corner. John F. Smith Jr. also hinted that the company's 1993 earnings would surpass its goal, attributing the improvement to cost-cutting, the company's restructuring, and to the strong yen, which has raised the cost of some Japanese cars in the U.S. [Page D1.] 
 More than $400 million was stolen or squandered at Towers Financial, the bankruptcy trustee overseeing the debt-collection company said. In a suit, the trustee provides fresh and vividly detailed accusations of manipulation of the books at Towers, which was formerly headed by Steven Hoffenberg. [D1.]
A McDonnell Douglas rocket that takes off and lands vertically, and may greatly reduce the costs of going into space, is about to be killed by the Pentagon, the company said. [A13.]
 
International
Stock prices soared today in Tokyo, following passage of political reform legislation and amid expectations of a sweeping package of emergency Government spending and tax cuts to revive the slumping Japanese economy. [D1.]
Clinton Administration officials are preparing to step up pressure on Japan in the next few days, hoping to get Prime Minister Hosokawa and other high officials to intervene in trade talks. [D2.]
Some companies that bailed out of South Africa are now devoting their attention to how to return. The payoff could include an enhanced reputation for socially responsible behavior. [D1.]
Russian leaders have come for several years to the World Economic Forum, where they pitch their country's prospects to the West. The current Prime Minister, who is regarded as lukewarm about market reform, rose to the occasion by promising that "Russia will not turn back." [D2.]
The Czech Republic boasts low unemployment and a balanced budget even as it takes on the treacherous task of transforming itself from Communism to a market economy. [A1.]
 
The Economy
The industrial policy of rewarding telecommunications innovators with multimillion-dollar slices of the radio spectrum is under bitter attack from those who think the process is an administrative quagmire and a magnet to political meddling. [D1.]
 The Administration is about to propose a major revision of the Superfund law that would ease the requirements for cleaning up some toxic waste dumps. [A1.]
 
The Media Business
Authors, who are often the last to be informed of mergers, closings or dismissals at publishing houses, face difficult decisions when their editors are forced to leave. [D6.]
For the second time in a year, a "Prime Time Live" account inadvertently drew attention to speaking fees paid to Sam Donaldson, the program's co-anchor. William Glaberson: Press. [D6.]
Court TV may not be making a profit, but it is making a splash. The cable channel is generating more publicity than the size of its audience might justify. [D6.]
Vea, a Spanish-language guide to New York City, started publication in October 1992, but it already projects 1994 revenue of $1 million, or double its 1993 sales. [D6.]
The editorial staff members of People magazine are the focus of the first television commercials that sell the magazine itself rather than individual issues. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]

Today's Columns
A condom for women has been patented that would attach to the middle of special underwear. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
The F.D.A. approved Copley Pharmaceutical versions of two widely used drugs that recently lost patent protection. The company is in the midst of a major recall of an asthma treatment and has been threatened by lawsuits. Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: PRIME TIME FREEWARE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); WRITERS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); PUBLISHING (69%); TAX LAW (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); SUPERFUND (64%); CABLE TELEVISION (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (55%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (50%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



817 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1350 words

HEADLINE: A Puerto Rican Boom for Florida

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: KISSIMMEE, Fla., Jan. 27

 BODY:
Two decades ago, this was just another small and sleepy Central Florida town, a place of orange groves and cattle ranches. Today, it is the center of what demographers say is the fastest-growing Hispanic population in the country, a new promised land for Puerto Ricans in San Juan and New York who are fleeing crime, overcrowding and urban angst.
From 1980 to 1990, the Hispanic population of Osceola County, which is just south of Orlando and includes much of Disney World, grew by 1,082 percent, the largest percentage increase of any county in the United States, according to census data. Hispanic people constituted more than 10 percent of the county's population of 107,000 in 1990 and are expected to account for as much as a quarter of a population of nearly 200,000 by the end of the decade. 
 Much the same thing has been taking place throughout Central Florida, an area that has been overwhelmingly white and rural. According to 1990 census data, the number of Puerto Ricans, the dominant Hispanic group in the six-county area in and around Orlando, jumped to more than 60,000 in 1990 from just over 10,000 in 1980.
But on another level, the Hispanic influx here is merely the most striking example of a broader national trend. In states as diverse as Massachusetts and California, more and more Hispanic people are moving from traditional "gateway cities," like New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Dallas and Chicago, to suburban areas and smaller cities and towns, the census data show.
 
Leaving Bars and Locks Behind
 The boom here has been led by people like Raymond Rodriguez, a 33-year-old laundry service technician who moved here from Queens two and a half years ago. He said he knew it was time to leave New York City when his van, parked in front of his house in South Ozone Park, was broken into and his tools stolen for the fourth time.
"I wanted to live in a place where I didn't have to have bars on my house and padlocks and alarms on my van," he said as he sat in the living room of the four-bedroom house he owns in a suburban subdivision here. "I wanted my daughters to be able to come home from school and ride their bikes."
In the past, Mr. Rodriguez, a New York native, and his wife, Millie, might have considered moving back to Puerto Rico, where their parents were born. But his sister, who lived on the island, warned him that crime and drugs were problems there, too, and told him that she and her husband were getting ready to move to Central Florida. "God willing, I don't think we'll ever go back," he said.
 
Tranquillity and Security
 That attitude, and the migration it has provoked, alters a trend that has helped shape the character of both New York City and Puerto Rico. Since the 1940's, Puerto Ricans have traditionally looked to New York City and nearby cities like Paterson, N.J., or Bridgeport, Conn., as their gateway to opportunity.
"For our parents' generation, New York represented a path to progress and money," said Hiram Rivera, a 33-year-old engineer who moved here earlier this month from Mayaguez, P.R., with his wife and three children. "But now the question is no longer one of money, but tranquillity and security. New York and Miami don't have that. But Central Florida does."
Around this booming Puerto Rican nucleus, a growing number of other Hispanic groups, both from other parts of the United States and from Latin America, have also begun to settle in the Orlando area. An examination of previous addresses in local real estate records shows that significant concentrations of Colombians, Cubans, Dominicans, Mexicans and Brazilians have moved here since the last census.
All told, about 100,000 people of Latin American descent are estimated to live in the Orlando metropolitan area. In Osceola County, Hispanic students are the majority at schools like Parkway Middle School, in a subdivision called Buenaventura Lakes that is especially popular among Puerto Ricans, and are expected to constitute nearly half of the county's school enrollment by the end of the decade.
To Sylvia Evans, a Miami native who is the principal of Parkway, the Hispanic influx here brings back memories of the transformation that her hometown underwent when Cubans began arriving there 35 years ago, a change that until now has had only a very limited impact on the interior of Florida. "It's like deja vu for me," she said, adding that Osceola County is fast becoming "a little Miami" with Puerto Ricans in the place of Cubans.
 
Jobs, Jobs, Jobs
 For many of the new arrivals, the lure of Central Florida is not just the feeling of security, but the availability of jobs. Taking advantage of their mastery of both English and Spanish and the huge increase in Latin American tourism to Florida, Puerto Ricans have snapped up jobs at the theme parks, hotels, restaurants and outlet stores around Orlando.
But many other Hispanic newcomers are bilingual and bicultural professionals. Architects, engineers, computer specialists, accountants, teachers and nurses are taking advantage of the booming local economy to hire on with established firms or to open businesses of their own.
Since the mid-1980's, home builders and real estate dealers have also been aiming their pitches at Puerto Ricans in San Juan, New York and Chicago. That effort has been led by Landstar Homes, a large local developer of subdivisions, along with Carlos Romero Barcelo Jr., a Miami lawyer who is the son of a former governor of Puerto Rico, but other companies have jumped in as the migration accelerates.
As a result, the Sunday issue of "El Nuevo Dia," the largest daily newspaper in San Juan, is full of advertisements for houses in Central Florida. A four-bedroom house with pool and garage is offered for less than $100,000.
 
Lure of Home Ownership
 "We wanted to raise our son in a different environment, out of the city, but we also wanted to own our own home, and New York was too expensive," said Carmen Carrasquillo, a former resident of the Chelsea section of Manhattan who is the outgoing president of the Hispanic-American Association of Osceola County. "For a lot of people, it's a dream to be able to own your own home with a yard that has a pool and fruit trees."
With the growth of the Puerto Rican population here has come an explosion of grocery stores and restaurants specializing in Puerto Rican fruits, sauces, and dishes. Even a botanica, a store selling the herbs and statues used in Santeria and other Afro-Caribbean religious rites, has opened in Buenaventura Lakes.
The acclimation process has not been without problems, though. Some Puerto Rican residents, for instance, said that employers, apparently unaware that Puerto Ricans are American citizens, ask to see their green cards in job interviews. Others remarked on the irritated or suspicious looks they get from white and black longtime residents when they speak Spanish in public.
 
Responsibilities and Divisions
 "There is discrimination," said Jorge Coronado, a former New York City traffic officer and cabdriver who was born in Ecuador, moved here five years ago and founded a Hispanic community group. "But we can overcome that if we we have a better knowledge of our rights and our obligations, by which I mean registering to vote."
In addition, Puerto Ricans have discovered differences among themselves, depending on whether they grew up in New York or San Juan. Some Puerto Ricans who come here from the island complain that the so-called "Nuyoricans" are aggressive and standoffish, while their brethren from New York say people from the island are too relaxed and easy going.
Still, Freddy Roman, a 49-year-old former New York City police officer who moved here five months ago, said his decision was the right one. "The only thing that I miss about New York is going out at 4 in the morning and be able to eat pizza or rice and beans or Jewish deli," he said. "But the crime, drugs, gangs, potholes and having to live behind bars like a canary in a cage, I don't miss that at all. By moving here, I feel like I've hit the lottery."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kissimmee, Fla., has become what demographers say is the fastest-growing Hispanic population in the country, with about 100,000 people of Latin American descent living in the Orlando metropolitan area. La Placita Latina Supermarket caters to the county's Latin American population. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)
 
Map of Florida showing location of Kissimmee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); PUERTO RICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; KISSIMMEE (FLA); UNITED STATES (98%); PUERTO RICO (94%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); PUERTO RICANS HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); CENSUS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); TRENDS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); CITIES (73%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (71%); SUBURBS (64%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



818 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Describe Ulster Talks as 'on Track'

BYLINE: By JAMES F. CLARITY, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Seven weeks after Britain and Ireland formally proposed a framework for peace in Northern Ireland, leaders of both Governments suggest that their plan, while vulnerable, is firmly on the track toward its ultimate goals: an end of violence by the Irish Republican Army and the inclusion of Sinn Fein, the I.R.A.'s political wing, in the peace talks.
The leaders, Prime Minister Albert Reynolds of Ireland and Sir Patrick Mayhew, the chief British official in the North, seem to believe that they can convince the president of Sinn Fein, Gerry Adams, that their proposal is not a trap and that it provides a basis for negotiations that he and the I.R.A. can accept without compromising their ultimate goal of a united Ireland free of British control. 
 "The declaration is alive and well," Mr. Reynolds said in an interview.
Of Mr. Adams and the I.R.A., he added, "The declaration is being debated deeply and intensely by republicans, and I don't expect a response until it has all been debated in their own organization. It would be unrealistic to expect a solution to a centuries-old conflict within a few weeks."
The guerrilla war in Northern Ireland has killed 3,114 people since 1969.
Mr. Reynolds acknowledged that a drastic increase in violence, which has been at a relatively low level since the declaration was issued on Dec. 15, could destroy the peace plan.
But Sir Patrick said on Friday that "we believe there is rational ground for being hopeful" that Sinn Fein would eventually accept the declaration.
The killing rate in the North has slowed down. Eighty-four people were killed last year; slightly fewer than half the deaths were attributed to the I.R.A., the others to Protestant paramilitaries. Only three people have died since the British-Irish declaration: one killed by the I.R.A. and two by Protestant gunners. The I.R.A. has continued to explode bombs at military and police targets in the north but has avoided attacks that could hurt civilians.
Mr. Adams's ability to persuade the I.R.A. to lay down its arms was enhanced today when the United States agreed to allow him to enter the country to speak at a conference Tuesday in New York. He had been banned because of his links to the I.R.A., and Washington had asked him whether he was ready to renounce violence.
Shortly before the visa was disclosed, Mr. Adams said on television that he was "absolutely convinced" that "we will have a negotiated settlement, and we will have an Ireland free of violence and of conflict."
"I want to bring an end to the Irish Republican Army, to be part of taking the gun out of Irish politics," he said. But he added that he could not renounce violence, which he calls "armed struggle," because "it would be intellectually and morally wrong for me personally."
Mr. Adams has insisted that the declaration needs to be clarified, which Sir Patrick has said he will do.
While the British-Irish proposal says that Britain has no strategic or economic interest in keeping control of the North, and that Britain would abide by a referendum on unity with Ireland or union with Britain, this in effect gives the Protestant majority in the North a veto over a united Ireland.
Mr. Adams insists that Britain must try to convince the Protestants that they should accept a united Ireland, in which they would become a small minority. He has also indicated that before he sits down to negotiate, he wants Britain to agree to a timetable to withdraw its 17,000 troops and to spell out provisions for amnesty for hundreds of I.R.A. prisoners.
Some Protestant leaders, including Mr. Paisley, say angrily that the British have already become persuaders by the very nature of their concessions. Sir Patrick said on Friday that while would he not renegotiate the declaration, he would publicly elaborate on its provisions.
 
How to Save Face
 Many officials, diplomats and analysts say that many of the differences involve saving face: The British must not seem to be appeasing terrorists; the I.R.A. must not seem to be too quick to snap up crumbs from the Queen's table, bowing again to the nation that has ruled the North for 700 years and kept control of the six counties when Ireland gained independence in 1922.
Prime Minister John Major of Britain has been almost silent on the situation, and the onus of persuading Mr. Adams to end the war has been taken up by Mr. Reynolds. The Irish Prime Minister has made several speeches that try to reassure the Protestants, but the thrust of his remarks has been to reassure Mr. Adams and the estimated 350 active I.R.A. guerrillas.
His supporters describe Mr. Reynolds as a skilled fisherman. "He has the republicans on the hook now," an official said. "He has to give them a lot of play, like a trout. They will jump here, there, all over the place, and they could get off the hook."
To which Mr. Reynolds responds: "I don't mind if others think I'll fail, when I believe the greatest prize of all, peace, is still achievable."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: IRELAND (96%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); 

COMPANY: SINN FEIN; IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (IRA) SINN FEIN (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (90%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SINN FEIN; IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (IRA) SINN FEIN (91%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (90%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHERN IRELAND; IRELAND; GREAT BRITAIN; IRELAND (96%); NORTHERN IRELAND (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: VIOLENCE POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); POLITICS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BOMBINGS (72%); 

PERSON: CLARITY, JAMES F; ADAMS, GERRY ALBERT REYNOLDS (72%); GERRY ADAMS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



819 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: Foes' Troops Pouring In, Bosnia Says

BYLINE: By JOHN KIFNER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: SARAJEVO, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Jan. 30

 BODY:
Yugoslavia and Croatia are pouring troops into Bosnia and Herzegovina, a clear violation of international protocols, according to a Bosnian intelligence report. The report follows similar accounts by United Nations officials and Yugoslav and foreign journalists.
The Croatian Government has mounted the "broadest mobilization" since the breakup of the old Yugoslav federation flared into warfare in 1991 and has sent more than half a dozen brigades into Bosnia, the intelligence report says. 
 Yugoslav Army forces that have been sighted in Bosnia include members of two elite airborne brigades and a heavy-weapons unit, the report added.
The troops are being sent to support Bosnian Serb and Bosnian Croat nationalist militias that are under growing pressure from the Bosnian Army, which is mainly Muslim-led.
 
Peace Efforts Defied
 The introduction of outside armies into Bosnia directly defies international peacemaking efforts.
What is left of Yugoslavia -- the republics of Serbia and Montenegro -- is under international economic sanctions for its support of the Bosnian Serb nationalists. Croatia is not, but President Franjo Tudjman has been warned of sanctions by the United States.
Despite those warnings, Croatia has sent 12,000 recruits to the Prozor area during the last 15 days, the Bosnian intelligence report said, and is expected to send as many as 20,000 regular troops. The Prozor region is expected to be the staging point for a Croatian push to cut a corridor through an area under Bosnian Government control. The report said the attack is expected to spearheaded by the Croatian Guards Brigade.
 
Croatia Sends Reinforcements
 Five other Croatian brigades are reportedly en route to Gornji Vakuf, where heavy fighting is under way, and the First Guard Brigade has been sent to Mostar, the report said. The Muslim section of Mostar has been under a bitter siege for months.
The Bosnian report said the Third Guard Brigade, in the Gornji Vakuf area, had been put under the personal command of the Croatian Minister of Defense, Gojko Susak, a wealthy emigre who most recently lived in Canada and leads the "Herzegovina lobby" in Zagreb, the Croatian capital.
In addition to the regular army troops, the Bosnian intelligence reports says, emigres from the ethnically Croatian areas of western Herzegovina who once trained in Australia and South America to overthrow the old Yugoslav Communist Government have infiltrated into Bosnia.
 
Resisters Are Prosecuted

Human rights groups in Croatia have recently reported that army recruits are being ordered into Bosnia, and the Bosnian intelligence report said that courts in Zagreb had begun proceedings against people resisting being mobilized to fight in Bosnia.
The Yugoslav Army has also moved troops from Serbia to Bosnia in recent weeks, the Bosnian report said, in an account that dovetailed with published accounts in Vreme and other independent publications in Belgrade and accounts by witnesses, including United Nations officials.
These were some of the military movements described by Bosnian intelligence:
*On Jan. 15, 16 and 17, six military convoys crossed into Bosnia. They included 105-millimeter cannons, 122-millimeter and 155-millimeter howitzers and modified T-12 cannons.
*On Jan. 15, 17 and 19, trains left Belgrade for Serb-controlled areas of Bosnia, with one train each day carrying 10 or more T-55 tanks.
*Elements of two elite Yugoslav brigades, the 63rd Airborne and the 72d Airborne, have been stationed in the Serb-controlled Bijeljina area of Bosnia.
*Yugoslav frogmen capable of underwater engineering operations and commandos who work behind enemy lines have been sent into the northeastern section of Bosnia. The underwater teams are apparently intended to mount an action in Mondracko Lake, near the Muslim-held city of Tuzla, where Serbian gunners in the hills have kept the airport closed.
At a briefing Friday on the fighting in Bosnia, a senior United Nations officer said the peacekeeping command had "no conclusive evidence of unit level" involvement of the Yugoslav Army in Bosnia. But the officer, a member of the United Nations Protection Force, speaking at the headquarters in Zagreb, said there was no doubt that individual Yugoslav Army soldiers had gone to fight on the side of the Serbs.
There is also clear evidence, the officer said, that thousands of Croatian Army soldiers had been sent into Bosnia.
 
Removal of Insignia
 But the officer noted the problems in determining the origin of the soldiers in Bosnia. "You cannot tell the difference if they were to remove all their insignia" the officer said, because many of the Bosnian Serb fighters had been part of the Yugoslav Army before the breakup of the Yugoslavia and thus used the same uniforms, equipment and weapons.
"That's the point," the officer said. "We just don't know. We have no evidence."
In contrast, the officer said, Croatian Army soldiers sent to Bosnia to support the breakaway Croatian Defense Force wear distinctive shoulder patches.
There have been numerous reports in the past of Yugoslav Army soldiers fighting in Bosnia in unmarked uniforms.
 
Bridge Over the Drina
 Despite the officer's statement that identifying Yugoslav Army forces was difficult, The Associated Press last week quoted a Norwegian officer, Capt. Jantura Strandus, as saying, "Just stand in Zvornik and watch the Yugoslav Army cross over." Zvornik, 70 miles southwest of Belgrade, where a bridge crosses the Drina River, is a main entry point from Serbia into the Serb-controlled area of Bosnia. From Zvornik, a road lined with burned-out Muslim villages leads to Sarajevo.
The A.P. has also reported that two reporters traveling through Bosnia after a failed Serbian offensive near Olovo several weeks ago saw a column of five Yugoslav Army armored personnel carriers on the Zvornik road. The vehicles clearly displayed Yugoslav military license plates and the soldiers wore Yugoslav Army uniforms and insignia.

GRAPHIC: Map of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing location of Prozor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (YUGOSLAVIA); CROATIA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); SERBIA (93%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE ARMED FORCES (91%); ARMIES (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); CIVIL WAR (78%); WRITERS (77%); LOBBYING (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: KIFNER, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



820 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hopes Japan Will Turn Its Attention to Trade

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa saved his job this weekend with an 11th-hour compromise to reform Japan's political system. Now, the United States hopes, he will come up with another last-minute compromise, this one to salvage floundering American-Japanese trade negotiations.
Clinton Administration officials said this weekend that they ware preparing to step up the pressure on Japan in the next few days, hoping to get the Prime Minister and other high officials to intervene in talks and help forge agreements by a Feb. 11 deadline. 
 With political reform, the issue that has preoccupied the Prime Minister for weeks, out of the way, Mr. Hosokawa "is now in a position to participate a little more actively in resolving this," a Clinton Administration official said.
Officials said they expected President Clinton to call the Prime Minister, both to congratulate him on the enactment of electoral reform legislation and to call for his help on trade talks. There is also discussion about the President's sending a special envoy, perhaps Mickey Kantor, the American trade representative, to Japan this week, the officials said.
So far, trade negotiations have been conducted mainly by Japan's bureaucrats, whom Washington sees as recalcitrant. It has been trying to bring the talks to the front burner as a political issue, hoping that politicians might be more amenable to compromise.
But these efforts, including a warning delivered by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen on a hastily scheduled stopover in Japan, have been for naught. Politicians here have been almost totally occupied with reforming Japan's scandal-prone political system, a goal that Mr. Hosokawa had promised to achieve at the possible cost of his job.
Had Japan's Parliament not passed political reform legislation on Saturday, Mr. Hosokawa might have become a lame duck, or what is known here as a "dead body." That could have fouled up plans for his meeting with President Clinton in Washington on Feb. 11.
Now, with Mr. Hosokawa's having survived his political crisis, the meeting is expected to go ahead as scheduled unless negotiations break down.
 
Far Apart on Key Issues
 At the meeting, the two leaders are supposed to sign agreements aimed at opening Japan's automobile and insurance markets and at reforming Japan's Government procurement of telecommunications and medical equipment. But the countries remain far apart on all these issues, with a key sticking point being Japan's resistance to what it views as an American demand for setting trade targets.
Nontheless, there has been some slight movement. In automobile talks, for instance, the United States has been concentrating recently on seeking a significant increase in the number of Japanese dealers carrying foreign cars, rather than on setting a goal for sales of the cars themselves.
While Japan does not want to set targets for the number of dealers carrying foreign cars, it is more willing to talk about dealers than about car sales. Japan has argued that it would be impossible for the Government to tell consumers what cars to buy.
Washington might be pinning too much hope on Mr. Hosokawa's getting the talks moving. The Prime Minister has already said he opposes setting targets for imports into Japan because it goes against the principles of free trade. Japan's bureaucrats have been trying to get the message out that it does not pay to try to circumvent them.
 
Deadline Could Provide Pressure
 "I don't know if it will take unusual prodding to get the politicians to focus on this," one American official said, adding that it was only natural that politicians would turn to trade negotiations with a deadline less than two weeks away.
At a news conference on Saturday, after the political reform bills were passed, Mr. Hosokawa said he would turn his attention to the trade negotiations, as well as to measures to stimulate Japan's stagnant economy.
An economic stimulus package, including a cut in income taxes to encourage consumer spending, is expected to be announced this week. As for trade negotiations, Mr. Hosokawa said he hoped to reach compromises, but also insisted he would argue Japan's position firmly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET PRIME MINISTERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); ELECTION LAW (68%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); INSURANCE (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; HOSOKAWA, MORIHIRO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



821 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 2; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: In West, Russia Still Hails the Market

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Jan. 30

 BODY:
In the last few years, Russian leaders have made a habit of taking a January break from their domestic turmoil to come to the World Economic Forum at the Alpine ski resort here, where they pitch their country's prospects to the West.
At this year's conference, after the departure of the West's favorite Russian ministers -- former Finance Minister Boris G. Fyodorov and former Economics Minister Yegor T. Gaidar -- the task of the Russian team was particularly arduous. 
 But Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin, widely regarded as lukewarm about market reforms and an antagonist of Mr. Fyodorov, rose to the occasion.
"Russia will not turn back," Mr. Chernomyrdin, the former boss of the Soviet natural gas industry, told the conference, attended by about 2,000 Western executives and politicians.
 
 
'No Backpedaling'
 "There will be no backpedaling," he said. "I know what socialism is all about. There will be no going back to it."
Just a couple of weeks ago, Mr. Chernomyrdin declared, "The period of market romanticism is over."
Even if there is no return to socialism in Russia, there seems to be every prospect of a return to galloping inflation. Mr. Chernomyrdin could scarcely contain his agitation when it was suggested that the chairman of Russia's Central Bank, Viktor V. Gerashchenko, is widely known as the worst central banker in the world.
Mr. Gerashchenko likes to pump increasingly worthless rubles into shoring up loss-making state industries and farms, a policy that fuels inflation. But the Prime Minister insisted that the central banker was eminently qualified, as well as eminently likable.
Mr. Chernomyrdin conceded that inflation would rise to 20 percent by June, from the current 12 percent a month, but he expressed hope that it might dip to between 15 and 18 percent a month by the end of the year. He did not explain how this would be achieved.
Mr. Fyodorov, who quit after President Yeltsin turned to a conservative Cabinet to halt the advance of nationalists, disagreed.
"We are likely to have a short-term disaster and we could lose a lot of time," he told the conference. "The question is how long, how soon will President Yeltsin have the courage to change."
 
 
Nearing Hyperinflation?
 Mr. Fyodorov suggested that inflation, increased by a flood of central bank subsidies to state industry, would rise to 35 percent a month by the summer. Such a rate would be close to hyperinflation, which is widely considered to begin when inflation reaches 50 percent a month.
This prediction was clearly irritating to Mr. Chernomyrdin, who made no secret that Russia needs the second installment of a $1.5 billion International Monetary Fund adjustment loan as soon as possible.
But Lawrence H. Summers, the United States Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs, said international support for Russia would not be forthcoming unless reforms and "the mechanisms to preserve a stable currency" were in place.
The Russians, while conciliatory to Western business executives, did not hide a new national defiance aimed at demonstrating back home that the country is no pawn of the West.
The hard line was best represented by Arkady I. Volsky, the president of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, who defended the investment of large sums into state industries and farms to preserve jobs. He said: "Money does not make money. Goods make money."
Mr. Volsky has clearly not worked with George Soros, the New York money manager. But then Russia, for all its protestations here, is toying with an economic course that defies the prescriptions of Western capitalism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: LAWRENCE H STEIN (50%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM; PRICES; FORECASTS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); NATURAL GAS (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); SKIING (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TRENDS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (60%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; CHERNOMYRDIN, VIKTOR S (PRIME MIN) LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



822 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Democracy Brings Turmoil in Congo

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: BRAZZAVILLE, Congo, Jan. 27

 BODY:
Nearly three years ago, a stripling democracy movement, modeling itself on the campaigns for change that were shaking or toppling governments from East Europe to West Africa, began to take root here. Without a shot being fired, it forced one of Africa's most determinedly Marxist-Leninist one-party states to hand over power.
But today, most Congolese are afraid, and what seemed like a bold leap into a new era of political and economic freedom has been replaced by gloom and disillusionment. 
 The economy of this oil-producing country is in tatters, the military is torn by dissension and in recent weeks hundreds of people have been killed in a wave of military roundups and death-squad attacks.
 
Old Rivalries Emerge
 The seeds of strife can be found in ancient ethnic rivalries, which for many years were smothered by authoritarian rule. Now they have burst forth with virulence, in a pattern that can be found as well in the Balkans, Somalia and many other parts of the world.
On most nights in Brazzaville, sporadic gunfire and thudding bombs overwhelm the crickets and frogs as Government and opposition militia forces do battle.
And a week ago, in the Government's most drastic effort yet to quell the violence, hundreds of soldiers block aded the Bacongo district in the capital, an opposition stronghold where nearly a third of Brazzaville's 600,000 people live. The soldiers prevented food, medicine and other vital supplies from getting in and kept most residents from leaving.
[On Saturday the blockade was temporarily lifted, Reuters reported from Brazzaville, and civilians were allowed to leave Bacongo and another district, Makelekele. Soldiers told the fleeing residents that they would not be allowed to return.]
On Jan. 21 the residence of the United States Ambassador was hit in a crossfire; the Ambassador and his wife were inside at the time but were unharmed. Since then, though, the American and most Western embassies have scaled back their staffs and advised their citizens not to travel to dangerous areas.
 
Pandora's Box of Hatreds
 As law and order unravels, a 34-year-old Government economist echoes a view that is widely held among the middle classes: "Democratic elections were the worst thing that ever happened in this country. It's unleashed a Pandora's box of tribal hatreds that may take generations to heal."
And while Congo's multiple crises doubtlessly reflect its history of peculiarly intense ethnic and regional rivalries, some analysts see it as emblematic of why the push toward democratic reforms in many other African countries appears to be faltering.
"What is happening in Congo today points out the dangers of becoming too euphoric merely because a country holds democratic elections," said Learned Dees, African program officer for the National Endowment for Democracy, a private group that distributes United States Government funds to bolster democracy. "Elections are not a panacea but an initial step that could, if properly managed, lead to a better governed country."
Indeed, the troubles here have already reverberated across the Congo River in Zaire, where President Mobutu Sese Seko has been pushing for elections this year in an effort to resolve a long political impasse.
But opposition leaders in Zaire, seeing the turmoil here, are calling for an end to what they term Government-sanctioned "ethnic cleansing" in the Shaba region before elections are scheduled. In recent months, diplomats and relief workers say, hundreds of people have been killed in ethnic fighting in Shaba, a mineral-rich district in southern Zaire.
Congo's opposing sides are usually referred to simply as the "Government" and the "opposition": the Government, led by President Pascal Lissouba, wants to preserve the power it gained in disputed elections last year; opposition leaders want to change what they see as a flawed system.
But the labels are inadequate and in many ways misleading, because the principal contestants have been battling each other on and off since Congo gained independence from France in 1960, frequently along the same ethnic and regional lines that figure in the current alignments.
On the one side is the northern Mbochi ethnic group, which was closely aligned to the military Government of Gen. Denis Sassou-Nguesso. On the other hand are the two main ethnic groups of the south, the Pool Lari and the Vili, along the coast. During General Sassou-Nguesso's Government, from 1979 to 1991, Mbochi dominated the only political party, the army and the central trade union.
But as part of a nation-building strategy called uniformization, any mention of a citizen's ethnic origin was officially forbidden. And if that was not enough, the huge and shadowy intelligence network enforced the policy.
General Sassou-Nguesso's efforts to diminish ethnicity in the political arena may have been heavy-handed and utopian, but to a large degree it worked.
Still, with the end of the cold war, his authoritarian Government withered, yielding power to a national conference of political leaders.
The conference named a new Prime Minister, dismissed the Cabinet, rewrote the Constitution and scheduled the nation's first free elections for the fall of 1992. The conference also adopted a new anthem, changed the colors of the flag and removed the word "people's" from the country's formal name, the People's Republic of Congo. By African standards, the conference was probably the most sweeping repudiation of past practices since the early days of independence.
But while the Congolese were free for the first time to choose their own leaders, democracy also injected a renewed ethnic dimension into the Government. Many of the new political parties were ethnic and regional alliances, and in the ensuing power struggle, ideology has taken a back seat to these new groupings.
Andre Milongo, the transitional Prime Minister, for example, surrounded himself almost exclusively with ministers and advisers who were either Lari or Bacongo. When Mr. Lissouba was elected in October 1992, he aggravated the ethnic dimension when he replaced Lari and Bacongo officials with people from his own ethnic group, the Nibolek. He also formed an ethnically homogeneous presidential guard, separate from the regular army.
Mr. Lissouba's opponents accused him of blatant chauvinism, but in response they also formed an ethnically based coalition, led by Bernard Kolela, of the Pool Lari, and General Sassou-Nguesso, who still has strong ties to the Mbochi.
The ethnic fragmentation became acute in June when Mr. Lissouba's opponents accused him of rigging legislative elections and took to the streets. For nearly six weeks a brutal fight between Government forces and an opposition militia raged in the Brazzaville shantytowns. Both sides resorted to kidnappings, setting up "prison camps" where exchanges of prisoners became a bargaining tool.
In August the warring factions signed a peace accord, backed by the Organization of African Unity, the European Union, France and Gabon.
But the crisis erupted again in November with the kidnapping of two senior officials. They were released within days, but clashes continued with sniper attacks on troops. The army retaliated, using heavy artillery against the Bacongo district, and the battles plunged the country into even more chaos.
African and Western diplomats say Mr. Lissouba seems intent on eliminating his opposition once and for all, a prospect that they fear could turn into all-out civil war.
In the meantime, what is being lost is the idea that adopting a Western-style democracy here could could overcome decades of ethnic grievances.
"This is a tribal war, pure and simple," one Western diplomat said, "and frankly many of us underestimated how deep and intense the rivalries could be. And until they are resolved, if ever, elections are meaningless."

GRAPHIC: Map of Congo showing location of Brazzaville.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CONGO (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

CITY: BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONGO; CONGO (94%); AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); WESTERN AFRICA (92%); SOMALIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); BRAZZAVILLE, CONGO (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION ARMED FORCES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (86%); TRENDS (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); POLITICS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (68%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



823 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: Cartagena Journal;
On Tranquil Coast, Colombia Traffics in Tourists

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CARTAGENA, Colombia

 BODY:
Dropping anchor here the other day, the Queen Elizabeth II brought more to this old Spanish colonial port than platoons of sneaker-clad American and European tourists. The serene white lines of the cruise ship spoke of a tourism renaissance in Colombia's calm corner, the Caribbean coast.
In September 1989, drug traffickers bombed the Hilton Hotel in Cartagena, killing two guests and sending tourism into a tailspin. The number of cruise ships docking here plummeted to 5 in 1990 compared with 68 in 1989. But the traditional tranquillity of Cartagena has since returned, attracting 89 cruise ships in 1993 while making this enclave on the Caribbean a magnet for international tourism. 
 With an estimated $1 billion in tourism projects under way or planned for a 75-mile coastal strip centered here, local boosters are starting to talk of a Colombian "Cancun" at a port that is undergoing an economic boom unparalleled since its founding in 1533.
 
Center Is Gentrified
 "We are promoting the Caribbean, without mentioning Colombia," said Pedro Luis Mogollon, manager of the convention center here.
From his office window, Cartagena's attractions were easily visible: sunny skies, fishing sloops, tropical fruit vendors and weather-beaten Spanish walls. Built first to defend against 17th-century pirates, the walls now protect the historic center, which has recently been gentrified by wealthy Colombians and Europeans. Land in Cartagena's Old Town sells for $500 a square foot.
South of here, lots sell for $50,000 an acre on Baru Island, a 29-square-mile duty-free tourism zone. This Government classification gave the green light to a series of multimillion-dollar projects, including marinas, condominiums, resorts, hotels and golf courses.
"Everyone I know in Bogota wants to do something on the coast," said Michael C. Fairbanks, who recently completed a study of Colombia's economy for the Monitor Company, a Boston-based consulting company.
In addition to stimulating investment on the Caribbean coast, the Government has opened the nation's economy to imports. Instead of locating factories near domestic consumption centers, many people want to build factories on the Atlantic coast, closer to the export markets of the United States and Europe. And as part of Colombia's shift to a free market, Cartagena's port and airport are being privatized.
The other visible change here is a surge in foreign tourists: a sandal and sun-hat tribe that rarely ventures into Colombia's Andean interior. The number of foreigners staying in hotels here rose from 76,000 in 1991 to 282,000 in 1993. Foreigners -- mostly Canadians, Spaniards, Italians and South Americans -- account for nearly 40 percent of overnight visitors here, according to statistics compiled by Cartagena's official Tourist Information Agency.
But although Cartagena is only two hours by jet from Miami, people from the United States are largely absent here, either as tourists or as tourism investors. The local tourism authorities attribute this in part to the United States State Department and its blanket warnings against travel to Colombia.
"U.S. citizens are warned against travel to Colombia until further notice," begins the most recent State Department travel advisory, issued in August by the United States Embassy in Bogota and still effective.
But Ricardo Acevedo, manager of the Cartagena Hilton, says he detects shifting perceptions in the United States.
"With the death of Pablo Escobar," he said, referring to the Medellin drug cartel chief slain in December, "U.S. travel agents are starting to call me for rates." Mr. Acevedo's 289-room hotel, which has been fully rebuilt, operated at 71 percent occupancy last year.
Because four new luxury hotels are expected to put an extra 650 rooms on the market by 1995, the authorities in September banned new construction in Boca Grande, the city's most developed neighborhood, for three years. The ban was prompted by the failure of sewage and garbage services to keep pace with the growing population, now 800,000. This month, a private company took over garbage collection. Later this year, the city's is to start a $80 million sewer construction program, financed in part by the World Bank.
 
Popular for Meetings
 "Future expansion will be in the northern zone," said Alberto Araujo, whose Las Americas Hotel is to be the first of a series of multimillion-dollar projects on a palm-fringed coast that stretches 50 miles north of Cartagena.
Mr. Araujo hopes that his new 252-room hotel here will be opened in June by King Juan Carlos of Spain, who is to visit Cartagena for an Ibero-American summit meeting, which is to draw at least 20 Latin American heads of state and 1,000 Latin American journalists. The Presidents of Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela are also to meet here in February to sign a free trade pact for their countries.
Indeed, international summit meetings and conventions have become so commonplace that last year Colombia's Government converted an 18th-century nobleman's town house here into a permanent office, formally titled the Alternate Foreign Ministry.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 75-mile coastline along the Colombian port city of Cartagena is undergoing an economic boom that is unparalleled since its founding in 1533, and much of the growth is being driven by growing international tourism. During the Spanish era, the city's harbor was guarded by more than two dozen forts, one of which serves as a backdrop for cruise ships and hotels, condominiums and resorts. (Timothy Ross/JB Pictures)
 
Map of Columbia showing location of Cartagena.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

STATE: CARIBBEAN SEA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT OLD TOWN MILL (54%); OLD TOWN COPYWORKS (54%); ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA; CARTAGENA (COLOMBIA); COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN SEA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: NYTRAVEL; AMERICANS ABROAD MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); MARINAS (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); RESORTS (73%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CONSUMPTION (68%); GOLF (63%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (60%); STATISTICS (60%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (57%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (57%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES ELIZABETH II, QUEEN OF THE UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



824 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Honeywell's Route Back To South Africa Market

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 30

 BODY:
In the 1980's many companies agonized over whether and how to withdraw from South Africa. Now, some of those American corporations that bailed out are sweating almost as much over how to go back.
Last week, Honeywell Inc. became the latest of these companies to return to South Africa, and how it went about it suggests that many companies may end up spending more time and resources mapping out their return than might ordinarily be justified, given the amount of business they expect to do there. 
 But there could be a different kind of payoff: an enhanced reputation for socially responsible behavior.
Honeywell, based in Minneapolis, manufactures control systems for industries and buildings. It had about $6 billion in sales last year.
 
Wide Discussions First
 The company has devoted months to meetings with employees, investors, politicians and social-policy advocates in both the United States and South Africa to consider whether it should buy back the South African operation it sold seven years ago. The question centered on Martech, a distribution company with 130 employees and $25 million in sales -- less than 1 percent of Honeywell's worldwide sales.
"How you go back is very important," said Mannie Jackson, Honeywell's senior vice president for marketing and administration, who has been the chief architect of its policy on South Africa for the last four years. "As they started to talk about free elections, we had to talk about how far we would go to provide an economic base for reforms."
Only a handful of the 41 American companies that have invested in South Africa since President George Bush lifted the ban on such activities in July 1991 had previously been there and pulled out, according to the Investor Responsibility Research Center of Washington.
The reinvestment trend gathered momentum four months ago, when Nelson Mandela, the leader of the African National Congress, went to the United Nations and called for an end to all economic sanctions against South Africa.
So far, the biggest step taken has been the Sara Lee Corporation's repurchase this month of Kiwi Brands, a shoe-polish subsidiary it sold in 1986. Kiwi operations in South Africa have annual sales of about $130 million, making Sara Lee the largest American employer in the country, with 4,700 workers, the investor research center says.
For American companies, the main hurdles to returning are no longer the nearly 180 state and local laws passed over the years that penalized or forbade South African investment. Those laws were the primary club that apartheid opponents used to drive more than 200 companies from South Africa, but more than half of these have already been repealed and legislation is pending to remove many of the others.
Now, the concern is whether businesses will be able to operate profitably in South Africa. Experts expect only a trickle of companies to announce their plans before the national elections scheduled for April 27, in which South Africans of all races are expected to elect a government controlled by the black majority.
"People want to know if South Africa will be politically stable and what the economic policy of the new government will be," said Elmer Marzullo, administrator of the Industry Support Unit, a group of 53 companies that has stayed in South Africa through the years and supported reform by operating under a code of conduct originally drafted by the Rev. Leon H. Sullivan of Philadelphia.
Honeywell's financial risk in going ahead now was small and the timing made sense. The terms under which it sold Martech in 1986 to Murray & Roberts, a Johannesburg construction and engineering company, gave Honeywell until 1995 to decide whether it would continue to distribute products through Martech or sever all ties.
Users of Honeywell's controls include a small but influential group of South African enterprises, led by Sasol, the mining, oil and energy conglomerate. Honeywell figures that Martech can double its sales in the next five or six years and serve as a base for doing business in other southern African nations, Mr. Jackson, the company vice president, said.
 
Personnel Steps Outlined
 Honeywell deemed the cost of the acquisition too insignificant to disclose, but it cited several other conditions. It said it had named a multiracial board of directors for Martech and formed a standing committee in South Africa of female and black employees elected by workers to stress equal opportunity, career development and family-support issues.
It also said it had pledged to donate money and other resources to education and training programs for South African children, employees and customers; to invest in local schools and recreation sites; to support a mentoring system with South African universities to develop black professionals, and to audit purchasing with the aim of steering a sizable chunk of business to black-owned suppliers. Honeywell did not indicate the size of its donations or investments.
With variations, such programs are also likely to be standard policy for many other American companies planning their return. They reflect guidelines drawn up by the Executive Leadership Council, a group formed by Mr. Jackson of Honeywell and about 100 other senior black executives in large companies that deal with diversity and educational issues. Setting standards for re-entry into South Africa became one of the group's interests in the early 1990's as the Government moved in stages toward dismantling apartheid.
Mr. Jackson says the effect of the consultation process and the attention to local needs in planning investment should be broader. "As a practical matter, this is really the right way to do business around the world," he said. "The politics of race make it a lot more visible here."
 
Approval From U.S. Workers
 Honeywell's extensive groundwork is already paying dividends at home. "I felt it was noble of Honeywell to ask our opinions," said Stearline Rucker, a senior buyer of large computers and telecommunications equipment in Honeywell's corporate purchasing group, who was one of scores of employees in Minnesota, Illinois, Florida and Arizona invited to take part in focus groups held starting in late summer 1993 to discuss Honeywell's options. "It's a sign the company is trying to be in the vanguard on diversity issues."
Mr. Jackson was struck by American employees' interest in seeing the Martech investment quickly develop into a regional strategy and in encouraging the use of focus groups there.
Such groups are a favorite management tool of Michael R. Bonsignore, Honeywell's chairman and chief executive, but they had typically been confined to matters like employee benefits and internal communications, rather than those with social implications like strategic investment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "How you go back is very important," said Mannie Jackson, a senior vice president of Honeywell who has been the chief architect of its policy on South Africa for four years. (Honeywell)
 
Chart: "Some That Are Reinvesting"
 Number of U.S. companies with direct investment or employees in South Africa.
 Some of the 41 companies that have established direct investment in South Africa since July 1991, when the ban on new investment there was lifted.
 
Digital Equipment Corp.
(30 employees)
Computer sales and services.
 
Dow Jones & Co. (23)
Financial information services, subsidiary of Telerate International.
 
Honeywell (130)
Commercial and industrial controls and services
 
I.B.M. (0)
Holds 24% of the equity in an information equipment company.
 
Lotus Development Corp. (25)
Computer products.
 
Measurex Corp. (22)
Product control equipment for the paper industry.
 
Microsoft Corp. (39)
Software manufacturer.
 
Novell (6)
Software manufacturer.
 
Pioneer Hi-Bred International (81)
Agricultural research and seeds.
 
Procter & Gamble Co. (276)
Health and personal care products.
 
Sara Lee Corp. (4,700)
Manufacture and sale of shoe-care, intimate apparel, hosiery, skin-care and bath additives; direct marketing of personal care products.
 
Tambrands*
Manufacture and sale of Tampa tampons.
 
Wordperfect Corp. (30)
Software manufacturer.
 
*Employment level unavailable.
 
(Soruce: Investor Responsibility Research Center)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HON (NYSE) (93%); HON (LSE) (93%); HSH (NYSE) (81%); HSH (LSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (93%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS311813 FROZEN CAKES, PIES & OTHER PASTRIES MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (81%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (81%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); POLAND (78%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HONEYWELL INC HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (93%); HILLSHIRE BRANDS CO (81%); INVESTOR RESPONSIBILITY RESEARCH CENTER (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONEYWELL INC INVESTOR RESPONSIBILITY RESEARCH CENTER (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); POLAND (78%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); POLITICS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TRENDS (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (86%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J GEORGE W BUSH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



825 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1845 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
F.C.C. 'Pioneer' Policy Under Attack

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
Until last month, the Omnipoint Corporation was just one of hundreds of promising high-tech start-ups getting by on a few research dollars and a dream. But on Dec. 23 the Federal Communications Commission handed the tiny Colorado corporation a license to sell enhanced wireless voice, video and data services to the 27 million people in metropolitan New York.
Although the license is conservatively valued at $250 million, the commission considered Omnipoint a technological pioneer in the field, and granted it the license free. 
 What did Omnipoint and the two winners of similarly valuable licenses to offer personal communications services in Southern California and Washington-Baltimore do to deserve this golden pat on the back? The answer, depending on whom you ask, ranges from the development of exceptional technology to indefatigable lobbying.
The Ameritech Corporation, an ally of Omnipoint's, wrote that the company's work shows "incredible promise." On the other hand, Pacific Telesis, which spun off its conventional cellular phone service to focus on personal communications services, is challenging the awards on the ground that the winners may have violated anti-lobbying rules. Where the equities lie apparently has to be settled by the courts.
What is clear, though, is that the industrial policy of rewarding telecommunications innovators with multimillion-dollar slices of the radio spectrum is under bitter attack from those who think the process is an administrative quagmire and a magnet to political meddling. While much of the opposition is coming from competitors with big money at stake, the battle over personal communications services has also sown doubts among independent analysts. Henry Geller, a former general counsel to the commission who crusaded for pioneer preferences, now says that he "made a mistake."
The economic case for pioneer preferences is simple, at least in theory. Payoffs from innovation can often be protected by patents or copyrights. Where they cannot, simply being first with the best is often sufficient reward: Federal Express, for example, built a business empire on the idea of routing packages overnight through a single air hub. But in cases where commercial exploitation depends on access to the radio spectrum, argued Mr. Geller and others, innovators are often out of luck.
Under a system that has changed little in the last half century, anyone who spent the time and money to persuade the F.C.C. to set aside a portion of the spectrum for a new use was obliged to describe it in detail to potential competitors. And once the new use was approved, the innovator was forced to get in line all over again, this time to convince the commission that no one else could provide better service.
On its face this seems unfair, offering an advantage to those exploiting the ideas of others. Worse, at least from an economist's perspective, it seems inefficient: without the incentive of a reward, one would expect some worthy innovations to be stillborn and others long delayed. "Why else would anyone take the chance?" Douglas Smith, the president of Omnipoint, asked.
The F.C.C. opened the door to would-be pioneers in 1991, requiring them to show that their innovations passed hurdles of originality and social value. And in one case, the process proved relatively uncontroversial. The commission gave a preferential license to Cellular Vision, a New Jersey company that developed a technique for broadcasting dozens of television signals within urban areas at superhigh frequencies previously thought to be of little commercial use.
But the commission crossed into contentious territory when it invited similar applications for licenses to provide personal communications services, a souped-up version of cellular mobile communications that would operate on a less crowded part of the radio spectrum. The staff was forced to review 96 requests for pioneer preference; even after disqualifying many on their face, it was left to wrestle with the competing claims of 57, including industry heavyweights A.T.& T., Bell Atlantic, Time Warner, Pacific Bell, Tele-Communications, Southwestern Bell, Cablevision and Ericsson.
The commission announced tentative awards in October 1992 to Omnipoint; to American Personal Communications, a joint venture of the Washington Post Company and a cellular-phone entrepreneur, Wayne Schelle, and to Cox Enterprises, a big West Coast cable television company. Many of those denied pioneer preference appealed on the ground that their own contributions were more significant than those of the three winners.
The voices in opposition grew louder in September 1993, when the commission solicited advice on whether Congress's decision to auction most of the personal communications services licenses to the highest bidders justified modifying the pioneer preference awards or dropping them entirely. But since neither direction of attack apparently moved the commission -- the original decision was reaffirmed in December 1993 -- the issue is far from dead.
 
 
Brief Explanations
 The F.C.C. has offered brief explanations for each of the awards. Omnipoint was cited for early development of hand-held phones that operate in the higher frequencies set aside for personal communications services. Cox got the nod for linking mobile phones to a cable television distribution system. And American Personal Communications was selected for its research in how personal communications services might share a chunk of the radio spectrum with existing microwave users.
The rationale has been challenged by a number of competitors, and often in language that betrays the frustration of companies that may now be forced to bid for a single broad band of spectrum in three key markets. GTE said the awards were based on "irreconcilable distinctions" and "accomplishments that are clearly existing technology." Bell Atlantic said that "three of the four elements have nothing to do with technological innovation and risk taking," the justification cited for the award to American Personal Communications. The Qualcomm Corporation, a major supplier to the mobile communications industry, argued that "there is no convincing evidence that Omnipoint actually demonstrated an operational system."
Pacific Telesis has just escalated the battle by questioning the fairness of the decision process. In F.C.C. proceedings to determine licensing, informal "ex parte" contact between interested parties and commission members or staff is prohibited. Yet in the two months preceding the final awards, F.C.C. commissioners and staff logged at least 26 contacts with representatives from the three tentative winners.
 
 
'By the Book'
 These contacts violated no rules if, as the record formally shows, the only subject discussed was the general question of whether the commission should amend the pioneer preference process in light of Congress's decision to auction some of the personal communications services licenses, rather than the specific issues of whether the three companies deserved pioneer preference.
Mr. Smith, the president of Omnipoint, dismissed the charge on just these grounds: "We did everything by the book." So did Cox Enterprises. Their lawyer, Werner Hartenberger, said "there is no basis to Pacific Telesis's claim." And American Personal Communications released a statement that "the allegation is groundless."
But Pacific Telesis doubts that this legal line will hold. And last week a lawyer for the company notified the F.C.C. that it intended to seek "judicial review."
Whatever the outcome of this high-stakes struggle, the controversy is bound to stimulate the broader debate over the question of whether the benefits of pioneer preferences are likely to outweigh the costs.
Mr. Smith of Omnipoint contends that the explosion of applications for experimental licenses that occurred after the commission's decision to entertain pioneer preferences shows that the incentive is effective. Indeed, he argues that in stimulating early innovation by dangling the prospect of free licenses to pioneers, "whatever bidders pay in the auctions, they will pay more because of pioneer preferences."
 
 
'Compared to What'
 But Mr. Geller, the former general counsel to the F.C.C., is deeply skeptical. His own advocacy of pioneer preferences, he says, stemmed from despair over the commission's ability to decide through public hearings who could make the best use of the spectrum, and the sheer illogic of what was then the only legal alternative: parceling out billions of dollars worth of spectrum through gold-rush-style lotteries. But "everything in life is 'compared to what,' " he said. And by invoking the free market principle of letting applicants demonstrate their convictions with their checkbooks, "auctions make pioneer preferences unnecessary."
By the same token, Chuck Jackson, a telecommunications consultant in Maryland, believes that the burden of deciding which innovators qualify as pioneers in hotly contested proceedings strains the commission's administrative capacities. And in the personal communications services proceeding, he fears the pressure to make awards led the commission astray. "You can make a good case that nobody deserved a pioneer's preference," he said.
Commissioner Erwin Duggan, who voted to award the three pioneer licenses for personal communications services, alluded to his own misgivings in a public statement last month. "It is no secret that I have long been a skeptic about the wisdom of the F.C.C.'s pioneer preference policy," he wrote. Pioneer preferences, he cautioned, should be granted in a "most austere and sparing fashion."
 
 
Valuable Prizes
 The controversy over pioneer preferences, it is safe to say, would be tempered if the prizes were less valuable. A midrange estimate offered by the Office of Management and Budget puts the number in the range of $18 a person for the licenses given to the pioneers -- close to half a billion dollars for New York alone.
But that point only highlights the second part of the problem. Even if applicants can meet some objective test as innovators, how is the commission to decide the size of the prize? Janice Obuchowski, a former Bush Administration telecommunications policy adviser who consults for American Personal Communications, acknowledges that the commission "needs to look at the reward system prospectively."
Just when or how the F.C.C. will respond to the quarrel over pioneer preferences in general and personal communications services licenses specifically is not known -- and probably will not be known for some time. By early February, two of the five commission seats will be empty. Of the three commissioners remaining, one of them -- the chairman, Reed Hundt -- is taking no part in the proceedings because he earlier represented Bell Atlantic, a party to the dispute. Meanwhile, Bruce Franca, the commission's deputy chief engineer, said"we will do the best job we can in the circumstances."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "We did everything by the book," Douglas Smith, right, the president of Omnipoint, said in response to criticism of the tiny Colorado corporation's winning of a license to sell enhanced wireless voice, video and data services to the 27 million people in metropolitan New York. He showed a cellular phone to Thomas A. Stroup, president of the Personal Communications Industry Association, at a seminar last week. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (91%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC); OMNIPOINT COMMUNICATIONS AT&T INC (91%); T-MOBILE USA INC (91%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (FCC); OMNIPOINT COMMUNICATIONS FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LICENSES ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (91%); PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE (90%); LOBBYING (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); STARTUPS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); PATENTS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); LAWYERS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (57%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



826 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1513 words

HEADLINE: ISRAEL AND P.L.O. SAID TO BE CLOSE TO PEACE ACCORD

BYLINE: By YOUSSEF M. IBRAHIM, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Monday, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Israel and the P.L.O. are on the verge of concluding an accord on a limited Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza strip and the West Bank town of Jericho, ending a four-month deadlock, senior Israeli, Palestinian and Egyptian officials said here early today as they ended a marathon round of talks.
On Sunday, Yasir Arafat, the P.L.O. chairman; Shimon Peres, the Israeli Foreign Minister, and Amr Moussa, Egypt's Foreign Minister, described their efforts in the most positive tone heard since the Palestine Liberation Organization and Israel signed a peace agreement in Washington on Sept. 13. 
 Officials said they were almost certain that the new accord would be completed and signed within the next two weeks. It was worked out in two long days of intensive talks at this plush Alpine ski resort where the leaders were also taking part in an international economic meeting.
 
Another Meeting in Cairo
 Mr. Arafat and Mr. Peres said Palestinian and Israeli delegations would meet again in Cairo in a week to continue drafting the final version. In a brief news conference at 1:00 A.M. today, Mr. Arafat told reporters, "We have already clarified many issues, many items, and we agreed to continue the final draft for the agreement after one week in Cairo."
Mr. Peres, who stood next to him on a stairway at the luxury Seehof Hotel, said the two parties were able to negotiate most of the broad issues, but said "we have to continue to work on the paper draft" that spells them out.
Mr. Arafat, who was seated next to Mr. Peres when the two addressed government and business leaders here between sessions on Sunday, added, "We are on our way to bypass all the obstacles which had been raised in the last weeks."
 
Beginning a New Relationship
 The P.L.O. chairman, who appeared relaxed and cheerful, added that a final agreement to begin implementing the accord would be signed "very soon." He said Arabs and Israelis were beginning a new relationship "far away from violence, terrorism and wars, something we can be proud of and we can offer to our new future generations."
Mr. Moussa, who took part in the grueling talks over the weekend, said the most substantive issues concerning the transfer of authority by Israelis to Palestinians have been settled in the hefty document that will be signed in Cairo.
"Ninety-five percent of all points of contention are settled," Mr. Moussa said in an interview here on Sunday night. He added: "I am satisfied that we are about to get out of the bottleneck and the way is cleared for an agreement. Cairo is the next station.".
In his remarks to the World Economic Forum, Mr. Peres, who was not as effusive as the other two negotiators, said, "Many of us feel that if we can solve the Palestinian dispute, all disputes in the world are soluble."
 
'Wars Lead Nowhere'
 Mr. Peres pointedly noted that Israel fought five wars with the Arabs "which Israel won militarily but not politically." He said that "wars lead nowhere," particularly because it is now possible for enemies to attack with long-range ballistic missiles. "We are condemned to live in peace," he said. "We have to make this endeavor a success."
If these pronouncements prove true, the signing of the accord will end weeks of wrangling and discord that have delayed its implementation, which had been set to start last Dec. 13.
But officials here say it is likely that the new measures for self-rule will be well under way, but not completely in place, by the April 13 deadline for full implementation.
 
Three Major Disagreements
 Negotiations were hampered by three major disagreements. The most important was over who would ultimately control access to the occupied territories from Egypt and Jordan.
The other major points of contention were the size of the Jericho area that is to be evacuated by Israeli troops, and the nature of security arrangements for Jewish settlers who will continue to live there.
Various Arab and Israeli officials here said a number of issues had to be examined in greater depth, including the precise protocol of joint Palestinian and Israeli border controls to satisfy the Palestinian demands for clear sovereignty and the Israeli concerns over security.
Remaining differences over the size of the Jericho area to be placed under P.L.O. control will also require talks over the next few days in Egypt.
 
Israeli Right to Veto Entry
 Officials said the P.L.O accepted in principle that Israel will have the right to veto the entry of Palestinians or others it deems dangerous to its security because those who gain access to the occupied territories could eventually travel, undetected, to Israeli cities and towns.
But the Palestinians were still searching for a formula that establishes in the eyes of hundreds of Palestinians who cross the border daily, particularly from Jordan, that they have achieved a significant measure of self-rule that is not subject to Israeli censure.
Palestinians are also pursuing a firm commitment that Israel will stop the physical searches of Palestinians that have been routine at the borders since Israel occupied the West Bank and Gaza in 1967.
Yossi Sarid, a senior Israeli negotiator, said in an interview here that "99 percent of the Palestinians will not be searched" when they cross into Jericho, but he insisted that Israel's security needs must take precedence over some aspects of Palestinian autonomy.
The obstacle over security arrangements that guarantee the safety of Jewish settlers living in Gaza and near Jericho is close to being worked out with a plan for joint patrols and access roads that will be guarded by Israelis with Palestinian participation, Egyptian officials said. The exact shape of the formula for cooperation remains to be set, they said.
Numerous other "extremely complicated details of the transfer of civil, medical, educational, municipal and police authority from Israelis to Palestinians have been spelled out" in a set of documents that is "massive, very detailed and nearly done," said one official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
 
A Less Tense Atmosphere
 Much of the tense atmosphere that prevailed at talks in recent months in Oslo, Paris, Cairo and the Egyptian resort of Taba has evaporated.
On Sunday, in a gesture that was warmly applauded, Mr. Arafat pointedly took Mr. Peres's hand to mount the podium from where they addressed the international gathering.
Joan Spero, a United States Under Secretary of State who participated in the public panel on Sunday drew applause when she called for "an end to the Arab boycott of Israel." Mr. Arafat joined the audience in applauding.
Mr. Peres, who sat next to Mr. Arafat, said he "recognized the suffering of the Palestinians" under 26 years of Israeli occupation and thanked Mr. Arafat for what he described as "his supreme effort to bring our two people together in the domain of peace and hope."
If the agreement is signed as anticipated, it will clear the way toward progress in lagging talks between Israel and Jordan, Syria and Lebanon.
Jawad al-Anani, Jordan's Information Minister, also attended the session, and said that the success of the Palestinian-Israeli accord would open the way for a major international economic development conference planned this year in Amman, the Jordanian capital, to develop regional cooperation.
 
Some Express Caution
 In a reminder that optimistic pronouncements since September have repeatedly faltered, some officials cautioned that last-minute problems could still delay an accord.
"As long as the documents are not signed, it is better not to speculate over a breakthrough," Mr. Sarid, an Israeli negotiator and Minister of the Environment, said in an interview on Sunday afternoon.
But Mr. Sarid was emphatic in praising what he said was Mr. Arafat's "very constructive" attitude in these meetings and said the Palestinian leader was "very much in command, is in charge, and is aware of all the details of the talks."
The P.L.O. chairman's personal authority and power in the occupied territories have been severely tested in the last few months by a wave of defections among his followers.
 
Arafat Appeals for Aid
 Mr. Arafat used the forum to emphasize to hundreds of international business executives that economic development is the key to the success of any accord.
He appealed for economic assistance, stressing that the economy in the West Bank and Gaza "has been destroyed under years of occupation." He said that unemployment among Palestinians in the Israeli-occupied areas was as high as 58 percent.
Any settlement with Israel, he said, must be based on a recognition of these hardships and of the principle of "justice for all."
Mr. Arafat estimated that reviving the Palestinian economy would cost $13.5 billion. The World Bank and international donors pledged $5 billion last year.
Mr. Arafat said that the international commitment to the development of the territories could determine whether the area will "become another Somalia or another Singapore."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasir Arafat, left, the Palestine Liberation Organization chairman, and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel arriving yesterday for a session of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. (The Associated Press)(pg. A1)
 
Map of the West Bank showing location of Jericho. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); EGYPT (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); 

COMPANY: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (95%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (92%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (PLO) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (95%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (92%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; EGYPT; JERICHO (ISRAELI-OCCUPIED TERRITORY); GAZA STRIP; ISRAEL (98%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); EGYPT (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS ; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (90%); TERRORISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RESORTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); 

PERSON: IBRAHIM, YOUSSEF M; ARAFAT, YASIR; MOUSSA, AMIR (MIN); PERES, SHIMON (MIN) SHIMON PERES (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



827 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Equity Issues This Week

 BODY:
The following equity and convertible debt offerings are expected this week:
Amli Residential Properties Inc., Chicago, an initial public offering of 9.2 million common shares. Merrill Lynch. 
 Benetton Group S.p.A., Italy, 5 million American depository shares (representing 10 million ordinary shares), 2.5 million in the United States and Canada. Merrill Lynch.
Boardwalk Casino Inc., Las Vegas, Nev., an initial public offering of 1.6 million common shares (3.2 million warrants). Investors Associates.
Bowater Inc., Greenville, S.C., four million shares preferred redeemable increase dividend equity securities, Baa-2/BB+. Mandatorily converted into common in four years. Merrill Lynch.
Concord Holding Corp., New York, an initial public offering of 2.1 million common shares. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Consep Inc., Bend, Ore., an initial public offering of two million common shares. Prudential Securities.
Digital Link Corp., Sunnyvale, Calif., an initial public offering of 2.3 million common shares. Bear, Stearns & Co..
Empresas La Moderna S.A. de C.V., Mexico, an initial public offering of 5.3 million American depository shares, each representing four ordinary participation certificates and a financial interest in one share class I series A stock (3.18 million in the United States). Morgan Stanley.
Equity Marketing Inc., New York, an initial public offering of 1.87 million common shares. Josephthal, Lyon & Ross.
Igen Inc., Rockville, Md., an initial public offering of 2.6 million common shares, 2.08 million in the United States and Canada. Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Istituto Mobilaire Italiano S.p.a., Italy, an initial public offering of 11.67 million American depository shares, each representing three common shares. Morgan Stanley.
LXR Biotechnology Inc., Richmond, Calif., an initial public offering of three million common shares. D. Blech & Co.
Mainstream Data Inc., Salt Lake City, an initial public offering of two million common shares. Piper Jaffray.
Mapinfo Corp., Troy, N.Y., an initial public offering of 1.4 million common shares. Robertson, Stephens & Co.
Morgan Stanley Africa Investment Fund, New York, an initial public offering of four million common shares. Morgan Stanley.
Morgan Stanley Group Inc., New York, 5 million Deutsche mark put warrants and 2.5 million Deutsche mark call warrants. The term of the warrants will be three years. Morgan Stanley.
Oncor Inc., Gaithersburg, Md., three million common shares. Smith Barney Shearson.
Pacific Gulf Properties Inc., Newport Beach, Calif., an initial public offering of 5.3 million common shares. Alex. Brown & Sons.
Parcplace Systems Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif., an initial public offering of two million common shares. Robertson, Stephens & Co.
Pearce Systems International Inc., an initial public offering of 650,000 units, each representing two common shares and two warrants. Paulson Investment Co.
Post Properties Inc., Atlanta, four million common shares. Merrill Lynch.
Renaissance Communications Corp., Greenwich, Conn., an initial public offering of 4.7 million common shares, 3.7 million in the United States. Goldman, Sachs & Co..
Repligen Corp., Cambridge, Mass., 2.5 million common shares. Lehman Brothers.
Rochester Telephone Corp., Rochester, five million common shares. Salomon Brothers.
Sante Fe Energy Trust, Houston, 575,000 depository units; beneficial ownership of one unit of undivided beneficial interest in the Trust/A $20 (face) beneficial ownership interest in a $1,000 (face) zero percent coupon United States Treasury obligation due on Feb. 15, 2008. Lehman Brothers.
Scandinavian Broadcasting Systems S.A., Luxembourg, 2.5 million common shares, 2 million in the United States. Prudential Securities.
Stone Container Corp., Chicago, 21 million common shares, 17.5 million in the United States. Salomon Brothers.
Storage Equities Inc., Glendale, Calif., three million common shares. Paine Webber.
USA Mobile Communications Holdings Inc., Cincinnati, an initial public offering of five million common shares. Nomura Securities.
Western Digital Corp., Irvine, Calif., 6.1 million common shares. Kidder, Peabody & Co..
Western National Corp., Carmel, Ind., an initial public offering of 32.5 million common shares, 27.6 million in the United States and Canada. Merrill Lynch.
Source: MCM CorporateWatch.
Ratings: Moody's/Standard & Poor's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%); BEN (BIT) (91%); MS (NYSE) (85%); SAVIA (BMV) (83%); RFP (TSX) (71%); RFP (NYSE) (71%); PBI (NYSE) (64%); RGEN (NASDAQ) (60%); PPS (NYSE) (60%); PLCC (NASDAQ) (60%); PJC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (91%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (91%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (83%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2835 IN VITRO & IN VIVO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (81%); NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (71%); NAICS321113 SAWMILLS (71%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (71%); SIC2421 SAWMILLS & PLANING MILLS, GENERAL (71%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (70%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (69%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (66%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3579 OTHER OFFICE MACHINES (64%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (62%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (60%); NAICS523140 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERAGE (60%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ITALY (88%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (57%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (57%); BEND, OR, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); AMLI RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TRUST (91%); BENETTON GROUP SPA (91%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); SAVIA SA DE CV (83%); ONCOR INC (81%); BOARDWALK CASINO INC (72%); RESOLUTE FOREST PRODUCTS INC (71%); CONSEP INC (70%); CONCORD HOLDING CORP (70%); QUICK EAGLE NETWORKS INC (69%); IGEN INC (67%); LXR BIOTECHNOLOGY INC (66%); ISTITUTO MOBILAIRE ITALIANO SPA (66%); MAINSTREAM DATA INC (65%); PITNEY BOWES INC (64%); OBJECTSHARE INC (62%); PEARCE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC (61%); RENAISSANCE COMMUNICATIONS CORP (60%); REPLIGEN CORP (60%); POST PROPERTIES INC (60%); PAULSON CAPITAL CORP (60%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (56%); EMAK WORLDWIDE INC (55%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (54%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%); STEPHENS & CO INSURANCE SERVICES INC (52%); ALEX BROWN & SONS INC (51%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ITALY (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (57%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (57%); BEND, OR, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CREDIT COMMON STOCK (95%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (93%); CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES (90%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (89%); BONDS (78%); GERMAN MARK (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994



828 of 828 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 31, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: High School Equivalency Guarantees Second-Class Status

 BODY:
To the Editor:
You rely uncritically on information supplied by the American Council on Education in "High School Equivalency Test Poses a New Question: Will Taking It Matter?" (Education page, Jan. 5). The council is the organization that promotes and sells the exam. At the same time, you ignore a growing body of rigorous research on the General Education Development test, which is dismissed as "simplistic" by the council spokeswoman that you quote so extensively. 
 What is simplistic is the evidence presented in support of the G.E.D. by the American Council on Education. The council's Iowa study compares outcomes measured after taking the G.E.D. with outcomes measured before the G.E.D. was taken. This study has no control group. It attributes all the benefits of maturation, work experience, marriage and life-course adjustment to the G.E.D.
In contrast, studies performed by us, as well by Richard Murnane of Harvard, Lois Quinn and John Pasawarat of the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Ernst Stromsdorfer of Washington State University and others who used control groups, find that G.E.D. recipients perform less well than high school graduates in their earnings, employment, wage rates and progression into postsecondary education.
G.E.D. recipients have much lower success rates than high school graduates in academic colleges and in vocational schools. These findings are derived for a variety of age, race, gender and ethnicity groups, using large microdata sets.
Janet Laurence has studied the poor performance of G.E.D. recipients in the military. No military service now accepts G.E.D. recipients except under rare extenuating conditions. Our own recent research on this topic presented at the American Economic Association meetings shows that the G.E.D. wage advantage over dropouts is present in the years before taking the G.E.D.
G.E.D. recipients earn more than high school dropouts because they have higher ability than dropouts and because G.E.D. recipients complete more years of high school education before they drop out of school than dropouts who do not take the G.E.D. There is no wage gain from taking the G.E.D.
 
STEPHEN CAMERON
JAMES HECKMAN
Chicago, Jan. 21, 1994
 
The authors are, respectively, research associate and director, Center for Social Program Evaluation, Harris School of Public Policy, University of Chicago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN COUNCIL FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES INC (60%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (91%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (91%); AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (SECONDARY) HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (93%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WRITERS (73%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (67%); EVIDENCE (55%); ETHNICITY (50%); ETHNIC GROUPS (50%); 

PERSON: HECKMAN, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994

 
