

1 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: In Congress, A Jump-Start For Clunkers

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As problems go in the nation's capital these days, the White House could live with this one.
 Officials at the Transportation Department figured Thursday morning that they had applications in hand for about a tenth of the $1 billion that Congress set aside for the ''cash for clunkers'' program, meant to give rebates to people who turn in old vehicles for new, more fuel-efficient ones. 
 By late Thursday afternoon, they ran to the White House with news that they might have committed the whole $1 billion, or even more. This stimulus program had, in fact, stimulated very heavy demand, which required a quick decision about what to do next.
 Over the course of 24 hours, the White House changed its mind three times. At first, it said it would shut off the incentives by day's end. Then it let them continue through Friday, and then through Sunday. 
 On Friday, the House voted to add $2 billion, soothing the fears of car dealers, who would have been responsible for paying any money they promised to customers as a rebate. But the Senate might not follow suit. Some senators said Friday that the speed at which the money flew out the door was a sign that the government's deal was too good, and perhaps should be modified. 
 But still, a question remains: What was behind the apparent last-minute run on the clunker fund?
 The answer appears to be a bad mix of paperwork and balky computers. 
 Around the country, dealers had put off the laborious task of applying for the rebates of $3,500 or $4,500, which requires entering the 17-character identification numbers of each vehicle to be scrapped, scanning images of proof of insurance and filling out other paperwork. 
 The computer system was overloaded, according to the dealers. They said they would finish one page in the application, hit enter and nothing would happen. Eventually a message would appear notifying the dealer that the page had ''timed out.'' 
 Tom Frew, the business manager at Galpin Motors in Los Angeles, said that he needed 35 tries to register just one of the company's 11 dealerships on the day that the program opened because of problems with the government Web site. On Friday, he spent an hour processing just one rebate application, he said. 
 ''It's probably anywhere from 30- to 60-second delays between mouse clicks,'' he said. Each application can have up to 11 attachments. 
 But sitting in front of a computer is not the top priority for most of the company's employees -- instead, their job is to ''aggressively go out and handle all the customers that are flocking to the showrooms,'' he said. 
 The National Automobile Dealers Association told Transportation Department officials on Thursday that its members had submitted about 22,000 applications, but were sitting on tens of thousands more, said Bailey Wood, a spokesman. 
 ''Dealers are interested in one thing, moving metal off their lots, not sitting at the computer and doing data entry,'' he said. 
 A Transportation Department official said the agency had already run two instruction classes over the Internet on filling out applications, and was planning a third. A computer contractor, Oracle, has enhanced the capacity of the government Web site. 
 Cash for clunkers is an unusual government program, because dealers sell the cars, then wait for repayment from Washington. Government officials do not want to commit to more than Congress has appropriated because, under the Anti-Deficiency Act, they can be fired, fined and even jailed for doing that. 
 Dealers say failure to be reimbursed would be a nightmare for them. At Galpin Motors, Beau Boeckmann, vice president, said his company would try to ''unwind'' the sale, get the slightly used car back and try to sell it again. 
 Amid the confusion of Thursday afternoon, when the Transportation Department said the program would end that night, Galpin's sales staff called anybody who had stopped by their dealerships recently and quickly sold 30 Fords and 20 Hondas.
 Mr. Boeckmann said he was relieved that the program would run at least through the weekend; his company was already locked into print and broadcast ads featuring the rebates.
 Despite the malfunctions, the House voted 316 to 109 to shift $2 billion from the Energy Department's loan fund into the clunker program. Democrats were joined by all the Republicans in the Michigan Congressional delegation, and half of those in Ohio. 
 The Senate will take up the matter next week. A spirited debate is likely, as some senators have said they will use the opportunity to push for tougher fuel-efficiency requirements. If the Senate does not go along with the House's version, the House might have to return to work on a compromise.
 Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, noted that the government had raised the minimum fuel economy for sport utility vehicles and pickups, so that simply junking an older one and buying the 2009 model year could qualify as trading in a clunker. For example, this was true for a Toyota 4Runner (16 miles per gallon in 2002 and 18 miles per gallon in 2009) and a Chevy Silverado (14 miles per gallon in 2005 and 16 miles per gallon in 2009). But supporters of the program said those trades were unlikely because the market value of the old vehicles exceeded what the government offered for scraping them.
 Mrs. Feinstein and Senator Susan M. Collins of Maine, a Republican, said in a statement, ''We will insist that any extension of the program requires that the minimum fuel economy improvement for newly purchased vehicles be at least two miles per gallon higher than it is under the enacted clunkers program.''
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York also said that the Senate should be open to making the mileage rule stricter. Many environmentalists said the government was getting too little improvement from taxpayer dollars.
 President Obama, though, seemed to favor a straightforward extension. ''We're already seeing a dramatic increase in showroom traffic,'' he said after the House vote, adding that the program helps to reduce air pollution while helping car buyers.
 Robert Gibbs, the chief White House spokesman, offered assurances that the administration was looking for ways to continue the popular new program.
 ''If you were planning on going to buy a car this weekend using this program, the program continues to run,'' he said. ''If you meet the requirements of the program, the certificates will be honored.'' 
 Mr. Gibbs declined to say how long the program could continue without an infusion of money.
 But Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York, an early advocate of cash for clunkers, said, whatever happened, more would have to be done in September. ''We estimated a billion a year,'' he said. ''It's about a billion a month.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cars traded in the cash-for-clunkers program go to junkyards like Hackensack Auto Wrecker and Repairs in New Jersey. (A1)
 Employees of DCH Honda in Paramus, N.J., pushed one of the cars traded in Thursday under the cash-for-clunkers program. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (77%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (77%); WEB SITES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



2 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; MASPETH JOURNAL; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Of Angry Threats And Summer Sales Of Soft Ice Cream

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Few sounds evoke the languorous innocence of childhood summers like the jingle of a roving ice cream truck, its melody drawing streams of children clutching crumpled dollar bills.
 In this part of Queens, however, ice cream trucks have become a symbol of sharp elbows, more reminiscent of ''Goodfellas'' than Good Humor. Martin Price has taken his white and aquamarine Kool Man truck through Maspeth, Glendale and Middle Village for 25 years, but he has complained to the police that a franchisee for Mr. Softee has warned him a dozen times over the past two seasons to stay out Maspeth and Middle Village. 
 The most recent threats came on July 22, Mr. Price said, when three Mr. Softee trucks and a green Ford Econovan carrying the franchisee converged on his Kool Man truck at 56th Road and 60th Street in Maspeth. The franchisee, who Mr. Price said did not identify himself, was carrying a baseball bat and, according to Mr. Price, warned him: ''I bought the area.'' 
 ''You don't own the street,'' Mr. Price responded.
 But he has been so scared by the possibility of violence that he has been staying away from Maspeth and parts of Middle Village at a cost of 40 percent of his business, he said.
 The clash has become a conversation topic in these blue-collar pockets of wood-frame homes and yellow-brick row houses wedged between vast cemeteries and railroad tracks. The Queens Chronicle published a photograph of Mr. Price serving soft ice cream under the words: ''Kool Man's Cold War.'' 
 Of course, turf wars -- cold or hot -- are a constant of the city's clamorous shopping landscape, even in the child-friendly ice cream truck business. 
 The fact is that health permits for vendors require them to observe sanitary standards, but do not demarcate territories or specify how far one vendor must be from another. Besides, as Mr. Softee itself acknowledges, under free enterprise traditions, McDonald's can dictate to new franchisees how near they can build to another McDonald's, but it cannot dictate to Burger King.
 James Conway Jr., vice president of Mr. Softee, which has 650 trucks in 18 states, including 250 in New York City, said he had made his disapproval clear.
 ''If those allegations are true, it's something we don't endorse or condone,'' Mr. Conway said. ''I made a call to our distributor and in no uncertain terms said if this happened, he's wrong and I don't want to hear that it happened again.'' 
 He would not identify the distributor nor the franchisee, whose trucks could not be located by a reporter on a recent ramble through the three neighborhoods. 
 Mr. Price, a still-brawny 57, is a father of three whose wife died of a heart attack two years ago. His father peddled ice cream from a pushcart, and he has sold ice cream since 1970, when he was turned down for the Army because of a punctured eardrum. He started with a Good Humor cart but graduated to a truck in 1983. 
 He still sells Good Humor bars from his Kool Man truck, but his big lure is soft-serve, known in these parts as frozen custard. It comes in chocolate and vanilla and costs $2 a cone, sprinkles included.
 From April 1 until Oct. 31, his truck, adorned with the red Kool Man logo, travels from block to block, parking at a fire hydrant or another empty spot to wait for children to dash out. Some children, he said, time his arrival and wait at one of his spots with money in hand. 
 ''I've had customers that were little, and they grew up and they got married and they had kids, and those kids are now my customers,'' Mr. Price said. 
 In Glendale the other day, Kim Martinez, 31, bought four cones for her two children and a nephew and niece. Licking a chocolate cone, her daughter Cassondra, 11, said Mr. Price always circled back to her block if he did not spot her the first time.
 ''He always gives you more chances to buy ice cream,'' she said.
 Her mother said she had heard that Mr. Price had been menaced. ''Why would they do it?'' she said. ''He's a nice man.''
 By 8:30 p.m., Mr. Price is done for the day and parks the truck in a garage in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, where a distributor rents 45 other ice cream trucks. Mr. Price said he could take in $400 a day and, after paying off his daily rent of $92 and his drivers, can pocket $100 to $175. During the winters he works as a security guard. 
 Selling ice cream to children had been a good life, he said, until April 19, 2008, when a Mr. Softee truck pulled up behind him, and the driver, according to Mr. Price, warned him to ''get out of the neighborhood,'' saying, ''It belongs to my boss.'' 
 The driver then called his boss, who showed up carrying a bat and said: ''I'm the Mr. Softee guy. I just bought the route. It belongs to nobody but me.'' A few days later, his truck's front tires were punctured with an ice pick, Mr. Price said.
 He filed a police report then with the 104th Precinct, and again after being threatened on July 6 of this year. But he says no one has ever followed up, and a precinct detective who would not give her name said harassment complaints like these were typically not investigated. 
 ''I'm not a violent guy,'' Mr. Price said. ''If I can walk away, I walk away. If not, you got a problem. If I get hit, I go crazy.''
 Still, he is worried about the thuggish tactics, and so are his children, two of whom and a 17-month-old granddaughter live with him in his small apartment in Ridgewood.
 ''My kids want me to get out,'' he said. ''It bothers me. One person can't handle this by himself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Martin Price has sold ice cream from his Kool Man truck on the streets of Maspeth, Glendale and Middle Village for 25 years.
 From April 1 until Oct. 31, Mr. Price makes his rounds. Some of his cones go to second-generation customers.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (90%); FRANCHISING (78%); RETAILERS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



3 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: Profit Dips 71 Percent At Chevron

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Chevron said Friday that its profit fell 71 percent in the second quarter and that it would suspend its entire land-based natural gas drilling operation, citing dismal demand. 
 ''By the end of the year, we will not have a single gas land-rig running,'' George Kirkland, Chevron's executive vice president for global upstream and gas, said in a conference call.
 With natural gas falling to about a quarter of its value last year, ''it really doesn't make sense right now to be drilling those gas wells,'' he said.
 Chevron said its net income amounted to $1.75 billion, or 87 cents a share, in the quarter. That compared with $5.98 billion, or $2.90 a share, a year earlier.
 The company said its net income suffered from a weak United States dollar, amounting to $453 million in reduced earnings. That compared with an income benefit of $126 million in the comparable period last year.
 Chevron said revenue fell 51 percent, to $40.2 billion, from $81 billion.
 ''The demand for refined products remained generally weak,'' the chief executive, David J. O'Reilly, said in a statement.
 A Raymond James analyst, Pavel Molchanov, said he still considered Chevron stock a strong buy despite the weak earnings report. Like Exxon Mobil, Chevron has spread its refining operations around the world and does not depend on American consumers to make money.
 ''Petroleum demand in the United States is the weakest of any major economy,'' Mr. Molchanov said. ''They're particularly focused in Asia where the economy is relatively decent.''
 The company said a barrel of crude oil and natural gas liquids fetched $53 in the second quarter, compared with $110 in the second quarter of 2008.
 Chevron's production numbers, however, stood out when compared with other major oil companies reporting earnings this week.
 Chevron raised net oil-equivalent production by 5 percent. 
 During the quarter, Chevron's subsidiaries started drawing crude and natural gas from deepwater production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico and off the coasts of Angola and Brazil.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%)

COMPANY: CHEVRON CORP (93%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (54%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (93%); XOM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: DAVID J O'REILLY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



4 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Costly, Yes, But for You...

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Scott Stuart was at the Bloomingdale's store in Manhattan when a salesman sidled up to him, said a private sale was under way and offered him a discount on the slacks he was inspecting.
 That was last autumn, and in the months since, he has been inundated with similar discount offers. If a salesman does not make one, he has learned to ask.
 ''In another market, I would have found it very inappropriate'' to ask for a discount, said Mr. Stuart, a bankruptcy lawyer who works in New York and Chicago. ''In this market, I'm finding it incredibly appropriate.'' 
 Mr. Stuart is among the many consumers in this economy to reap the benefits of secret sales -- whispered discounts and discreet price negotiations between customers and sales staff in the aisles of upscale chains. A time-worn strategy typically reserved for a store's best customers, it has become more democratized as the recession drags on and retailers struggle to turn browsers into buyers.
 The conventional wisdom is that the more consumers who know about a sale, the better for business. But that rule does not necessarily hold in luxury retailing.
 ''When you're selling anything in luxury,'' said David A. Schick, a managing director and retailing analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, ''you're selling exclusivity.''
 Rather than post big sale signs, which can mar a store's reputation, high-end chains are trying to unload $3,000 handbags and $800 shoes by periodically telling customers that certain items are on sale, even if the price tags say otherwise. The stores also engage in the electronic equivalent of whispering in a customer's ear: sending select customers e-mail alerts about private online sales.
 Customers who subscribe to e-mail messages from Neiman Marcus, for instance, are regularly invited to ''midday dash'' sales. The two-hour, online-only sales promise 50 percent off luxury goods that can be bought only by clicking on a link in the e-mail message. Customers learn about the sale mere hours before it begins. This week's ''dash'' featured a $697 Burberry handbag, marked down from $1,395. A Carmen Marc Valvo chiffon gown was $575, down from $1,150. And Cole Haan flats were $82, down from $165.
 Neiman Marcus declined to discuss the ''midday dash'' extensively for competitive reasons and because it is still testing the promotion. But the retailer said that so far it is pleased with the results.
 At Tiffany & Company, executives contend that sale signs would clash with the jeweler's reputation for timeless quality, symbolized by its signature blue boxes. ''We certainly don't engage in price promotion,'' Mark L. Aaron, the company's vice president for investor relations, said in an interview. 
 Tiffany conducted customer research that shows its shoppers would be loath to see the chain, founded in 1837, offering 20-percent-off charm bracelets and pearl earrings.
 ''We say, 'Here's the product and here's the price, and the price is justified,' '' Mr. Aaron said.
 Even so, Tiffany has lowered prices on diamond engagement rings about 10 percent, hoping to cultivate a lifelong relationship between the prospective groom and the Tiffany brand.
 Of course, many luxury retailers have long offered discreet discounts to their top customers. Sales associates at luxe department stores were typically empowered to give discounts of about 10 percent to customers spending upward of a certain amount of money, usually $20,000 or $25,000.
 In this economy, however, the discounts are ''more in-your-face,'' said Stacey Widlitz, a retailing analyst with Pali Research. Moreover, they are steeper than in the past and available to customers spending far less than $25,000.
 More and more, the action is on the Internet. ''Not so long ago, many of the luxury brands saw it as a mass vehicle,'' said Gregory Furman, founder and chairman of the Luxury Marketing Council, an industry group. Now it is not uncommon for retailers to send e-mail messages like the one Bloomingdale's sent in April to its subscribers: ''Today only! Take $500 off your regular-priced online purchase of $1,500 or more in Mens.''
 Such discreet sales preserve a brand's veneer of exclusivity and help create a sense of urgency by limiting the time customers have to score a deal. Additionally, secret sales enable stores to discount their merchandise deeply without angering regular customers who may have bought at full price -- the opposite of what happened last Christmas, when panicked department stores began selling in-season couture at fire-sale prices. The eye-popping discounts led many consumers to question whether all that chic merchandise was worth the high prices in the first place.
 ''If you were a regular luxury shopper, you felt like a sucker,'' said Karla Martin, a co-leader of the North American retailing practice at Booz & Company, a management consulting firm. ''If you just spent $800 on a Marni skirt and you run into somebody who spent $400, you don't feel treated well as a customer. That was a disaster for retailers.''
 Another advantage of secret sales is that they require little or no advertising, so stores can privately cut deals with customers and publicly maintain that they do not discount their brands.
 ''It gives them plausible deniability,'' Ms. Martin said. ''I think that is a much better approach in luxury than what happened over Christmas.''
 Yet while covert sales are a subtler way to move merchandise, many industry professionals say they think today's culture of nonstop sales, secret and not, is further hurting the luxury business.
 ''It's heroin,'' said Paco Underhill, the author of ''Why We Buy: The Science of Shopping'' and the founder of Envirosell, the retail research and consulting firm. ''The more you do it and the more ways you do it, the harder it is to stop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rather than put up percent-off signs, Neiman Marcus uses e-mail and its Web site to advertise deep, but brief, discounts. (B4) DRAWING (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); SALES FORCE (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); JEWELRY (74%); INTERNET RETAILING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%)

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (60%)

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (60%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (60%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



5 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: 'Nice' Wasn't Part Of the Deal

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
A few weeks ago, a woman named Judith Kipper asked Lawrence Summers a question that's been on everyone's mind -- one that helps explain why the country is so angry at the big banks right now. 
 Mr. Summers, the president's top economic adviser, had just finished giving a speech in Washington, and was taking questions. Ms. Kipper, an expert on Middle East policy, was in the audience. 
 After first mentioning ''the apparent unwillingness of banks to keep people in their homes,'' she pointedly asked Mr. Summers: ''Do you have confidence that the banks, who helped to create the problem, and the C.E.O.'s and C.F.O.'s who are still there, are assuming a little bit of responsibility or at least self-discipline to do what is right for the country and not only for their bottom line?'' 
 Mr. Summers was just as pointed in his reply. ''No one should be confused about the extent to which the public sector has provided a foundation for financial recovery,'' he said sternly, ticking off such measures as the Troubled Asset Relief Program and the trillions of dollars in various government guarantees to the financial sector. He concluded, ''It is very important that those in the financial system consider carefully their obligations to their fellow citizens.''
 But what are those obligations? Here we are 10 months past the frightful events of last September, when it appeared that the financial system was headed off a cliff. A number of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Goldman Sachs, have returned their TARP loans to the government. The second quarter was hugely profitable for not only JPMorgan and Goldman, but for Bank of America and Citigroup, as well. Executive compensation is likely to soar again; Goldman has already set aside billions for year-end bonuses, while at Citi, an important trader may well be able to lay claim to $100 million that he says he is contractually owed. Clearly, things are looking up if you work for a financial firm.
 And yet, even as the banks' prospects have improved, the government had to call a big meeting just this week of the nation's largest mortgage servicers -- which include the big banks -- because it is so unhappy with the sluggish pace of loan modifications. Foreclosures continue to rise. According to an analysis by The Wall Street Journal, overall loan volume continues to decline; small businesses, especially, are gasping for credit. For many Americans, credit card rates have skyrocketed. 
 It is hard to look at the discrepancy between how the banks appear to be doing and how the real economy is doing and not conclude that something is wrong. A few weeks ago, after I wrote a column defending the Bank of America-Merrill Lynch deal, a reader left a message on my voice mail. ''You think Bank of America has it tough because they have to pay 8 percent on their bailout money?'' he practically shouted into the phone. ''They just raised the interest on my credit card to 27 percent!'' The message ended when he slammed down the phone in fury.
 Companies talk all the time about ''giving something back.'' But here is an industry that helped create a huge financial mess, and taxpayers have put trillions of dollars at risk to help revive it. If ever an industry should want to give something back, you would think it would be the financial firms, wouldn't you? That is why people are so mad. They feel they have bailed out the companies and have gotten nothing in return. All of which raises the question: what do the banks now owe the country?
 This is hardly the first time this question has stirred enormous anger. During the Depression, there was just as much antipathy toward the big money center banks, especially after the famous Pecora committee hearings exposed some of their seamier practices. 
 There was also, however, a surprising outlet for some of that anger. Under the laws at the time, bankers faced both criminal and civil liability when their banks went bust. ''Bankers went to jail over this,'' said Gary Richardson, an economics professor at the University of California, Irvine. This was true even though, in many cases, the failed bank had been a victim of the Depression-era bank panic, rather than a bad actor that had taken foolish risks, as is the case today. 
 ''The government has always recognized that banks are special institutions with an important role in society,'' said Mr. Richardson. ''The whole ethos at the time was, 'We'll give you a lot of freedom, but if something goes wrong with these special institutions, we'll punish you severely.' ''
 In part, that is why many bankers didn't fight the set of regulations put in place by President Franklin D. Roosevelt; what they got in return was the elimination of that personal liability. The banking system also got financial assistance from the government's Reconstruction Finance Corporation. 
 Still, by the mid-1930s, according to the Newsweek columnist (and F.D.R. historian) Jonathan Alter, Roosevelt was openly complaining that the nation's bankers seemed to have forgotten how much the government had done for them. ''In 1936,'' Mr. Alter said, ''F.D.R. compared them to a drowning man who is saved by a lifeguard and four years later returns to ask the lifeguard angrily: 'Where's my silk hat? You lost my silk hat!' ''
 In many ways, that is how people feel now about the banks. When I asked government officials and others this week what they thought the banks owed the country, I heard the same comments over and over: they needed to do more for Main Street, because taxpayers had done so much for them. ''The people who invested billions of dollars in tax money in these banks expect them to join the effort to fix the broken credit market -- not to fight every inch of the way to protect business as usual,'' said Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard professor and chairwoman of the Congressional panel overseeing TARP. 
 Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, told me the banks needed to start making more loan modifications -- and pay themselves less. ''Their mistakes got us into trouble,'' he said. ''For them to be paying themselves this kind of money amounts to a moral deficiency.'' Frank Partnoy, a banking and derivatives expert at the University of San Diego, pointed out that lawyers often take cases on a pro bono basis. And doctors usually treat people who show up at an emergency room, even if they lack insurance. Bankers, he said, need to start doing the same thing, even if it cuts into their profits.
 Even President Obama weighed in this week, telling BusinessWeek that ''if you've presided over an enormous meltdown that has resulted in about $10 trillion worth of wealth being lost, that you might want to be a little self-reflective and perhaps change your business goal. And when I see Wall Street not doing that, it tells me not only that they have forgotten the recent past, but that they are putting the country's economy at further risk.''
 So why isn't it happening? Why aren't we seeing kinder, gentler banks trying to repay their debt to society? When I spoke to bankers this week, they sounded aggrieved at all the anger directed their way, and they claimed they were doing the best they could. And from their perspective, they are. 
 But their perspective is that of anyone running a business: their priority is to maximize profit for shareholders. That's what capitalists do. And because they are banks operating in this difficult environment, maximizing profits means, for instance, jacking up credit card interest rates to cover increasing write-offs, and foreclosing when that makes more economic sense than modifying a loan. To ask them to put aside the profit motive, even temporarily, for the good of the country -- it's not even in their frame of reference. 
 The problem, though, is that a big bank isn't just another capitalist institution; we've all learned that in the past year. For one thing, they are so important systemically that they can't be allowed to go bankrupt. They always have the government as their ultimate backstop if they make too many mistakes.
 Which is also why, if bank behavior does change, it won't be because bankers see some new light. It will be because the government forces change on them. It has happened before, and not just during the Depression. Banks used to hide basic facts about credit card loans -- until Congress passed the Truth in Lending Act in 1968. Banks never used to lend in low-income neighborhoods -- until the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 forced them to start. 
 If we want banks to modify more loans, or extend more credit to small businesses, or roll back executive compensation, the government is going to have to enact rules to make those things happen. For the banking industry, that is the flip side of having a government safety net: the government also gets to set the rules. It needs to start doing so.
 Late this week, I asked the Treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, what he thought the banks owed the country. In responding, he made a point that often gets lost in all the anger. We did get something in return for all that bailout money, he said. We got a salvaged economy, and a still-functioning banking system. ''Nothing we did was for them,'' he said. Rather, it was for the American people, who would have been in far worse straits if government had allowed the banks to go bust. 
 I have to admit, Mr. Geithner's answer caught me up short. Last fall, I was keenly aware of the reasons the government was rescuing the banking system, and wrote often about the rationale and why it made sense. But as the crisis receded, and the banks began returning to business as usual, I had lost sight of that important fact. Instead, I was just as angry as everyone else.
 Turns out, bankers aren't the only ones who have forgotten what the government did 10 months ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lawrence Summers, a presidential adviser, said that in light of the billions of taxpayer dollars flowing to Wall Street, ''It is very important that those in the financial system consider carefully their obligations to their fellow citizens.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN McNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



6 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SEATTLE JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: After Years of Debate, Light Rail Trains Enter Town

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
It takes only a few moments to ride an elevator from the platform of the famous and once futuristic Seattle monorail down to the platform of this city's new $3.9 billion light rail line. Creating the connection, though, took nearly a half-century.
 When the mile-long monorail was built in less than a year for the 1962 World's Fair here, it was proclaimed ''the world's most modern transportation system.'' Forty-seven years later and largely a tourist attraction vulnerable to mechanical troubles, it is still chrome-cool evidence of Seattle's urban ambition. 
 ''We thought, by God, we would lick the world,'' said Jim Ellis, a longtime lawyer and civic leader here, recalling the optimism prompted by the fair's success and early local efforts in areas like environmental cleanup. ''I said to my friends, 'Why don't we try for an overall capital improvement program that will make us the city of the future?' ''
 Much of what was known as Forward Thrust, the expansive 1968 proposal that included everything from parks to sewer pipes to a zoo expansion and a subway beneath this hilly city, has been built. But not until July 18, after four decades of proposals and public votes, did a variation of the transit part, a 14-mile Central Link light rail line, finally open. For all the celebrations, a common reaction in this city, which is still regarded as more forward-thrusting than most, has been, ''What took us so long?''
 ''How many years ago could this have been done?'' said Susan Arbury, who rode the new train into Seattle for a conference this week. ''We could have been adding on to this by now.''
 Ms. Arbury, who grew up in Seattle and is now a school principal in Enumclaw, Wash., added: ''It's just that people are so funny here. They like to argue every small point.''
 Regardless of shifts in the economy, political priorities or public sentiment, it is almost universally perceived that much of the delay can be attributed to a mysterious and maddening phenomenon known as the ''Seattle process.'' 
 Plodding seems to prevail over production. It is said to be rooted in everything from the supposed social reserve of the region's many Scandinavian and Japanese immigrants to a ruminative tendency nurtured by rainy winters. Economic booms and busts, particularly linked to the fortunes of Boeing, one of Seattle's longtime economic anchors, have also fostered hesitation. The challenging topography is an issue, too.
 And there is the continuing debate over whether Seattle, distinctively secluded in the mountains and maritime mist, should even aspire to be like other cities. Change, regardless of whether it is made in the name of a greener, less congested future, has plenty of skeptics. (One camp promotes ''Lesser Seattle.'')
 A firm fact is that all these matters will be discussed, deliberatively and intelligently. There will be grave concern. Wit will duel resignation.
 ''Talk big, debate long, do little. Rinse, repeat,'' David Brewster wrote in the local online journal Crosscut. 
 Talking about the Seattle process has become part of the process. 
 ''It's one of those cities that is introspective to the point of no return,'' said Mr. Ellis, 87. ''But on the other hand, every now and then they do gutsy stuff.''
 In fact, some make the case that gutsy is gaining momentum, Seattle-style. The city has one of the nation's most aggressive recycling and food-and-yard-waste programs; it has taken direct action to combat global warming, including reducing its carbon emissions. This year, after nearly a decade of debate, an agreement was reached among city, county and state leaders to replace an earthquake-damaged freeway downtown with a tunnel that will cost more than $4 billion. (Reminder: an agreement here does not necessarily equal construction.) 
 The tone of city politics has shifted to the point that a recent flurry of coverage surrounding Mayor Greg Nickels's run for a third term centered on whether his aggressive tactics have made him resemble the political boss of Chicago, Richard M. Daley. It is unclear whether Mayor Daley shares Mr. Nickels's affection for smooth jazz.
 And perhaps most importantly, last fall, as some governments elsewhere were cutting projects amid the economic downturn, voters here overwhelmingly approved an $18 billion expansion of the light rail system that will take it deep into Seattle's suburbs. There was $145 million, too, for parks. 
 With the light rail expansion, ridership is expected to grow to about 280,000 in 2030 from 26,600 projected for next year, after the current line connects to the airport in December. 
 Not that after all these years too many people are bragging. 
 Bruce Gray, a spokesman for Sound Transit, the regional agency that oversees the rail line and some bus and commuter train services, volunteered that Seattle was ''decades behind other cities.''
 ''We're here; we're building more,'' Mr. Gray said. 
 The fact that Seattle is behind on transit is something of a sore point for Mr. Ellis. He noted that Seattle was set to receive $900 million in federal money had voters approved the subway plan in 1968. (A 60 percent vote was needed, but the proposal received 51 percent.) The money ended up going to Atlanta, which used it to build Marta, its bus and rail service. 
 Mr. Ellis insists he is not bitter. He said he saw signs of change, though he was careful, of course, not to draw conclusions.
 ''When you ask an optimist if people are at a turning point, he's always going to say, 'I hope so,' '' Mr. Ellis said, ''and that's what I'm saying.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 6, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about the opening of a long-planned light rail system in Seattle misstated the cost of the first phase. It is $4.7 billion, not $3.9 billion, which was the estimate when voters approved the rail line in 1996.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Sound Transit train arriving on Tuesday at the Westlake Station in Seattle. A section of the Central Link light rail has opened after decades of political wrangling.
Shauntel and Stephon Fosha taking the Sound Transit Link train with their son, Stacey.
 Erich Zimmerman hung his bicycle up for his ride home. The line is expected to reach Sea-Tac Airport by the end of the year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (70%); MOUNTAINS (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (53%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (50%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (50%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (99%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



7 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Ticket Subsidy Program To Survive Downturn

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
ArtsConnection, a nonprofit arts education group based in New York, has acquired High 5 Tickets to the Arts, which provides $5 tickets to middle school and high school students and was about to close because of the economic downturn. The organizations have entered into a six-month alliance that will culminate in a formal merger on Jan. 1. High 5 will then be called ArtsConnection's High 5 Program. By merging, they expect to serve more than 50,000 young people over the next year, reaching students from elementary through high school. Over the past 13 years, High 5 has, with the help of TicketMaster, annually provided tickets for 16,000 teenagers to attend New York-area theater, dance, music and visual arts events. ArtsConnection, founded in 1979, has served more than three million young people over the last 30 years, working mainly with elementary school students. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); ADOLESCENTS (88%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (88%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); DANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MUSIC (51%)

COMPANY: TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



8 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 373 words

HEADLINE: Bluenoses Take Note: Stimulus Money Allots Millions for LUST

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
Given recent scandals in Washington, it might sound superfluous, but the stimulus law devotes $200 million to the federal LUST program. 
 Spelled out in capital letters in bureaucratic reports, like the arrestingly titled ''Guidance to Regions for Implementing the LUST Provision of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009,'' the acronym can lend itself to amusing if sophomoric readings. 
 The effort is frequently called the LUST Recovery Act Program, for short. The guidelines note that ''certain LUST expenditures are subject to the prevailing wage requirements,'' spell out ''LUST Recovery Act performance measures'' and warn that states that do not spend the money quickly enough will be penalized for ''failure to perform.''
 Unfortunately, it is not that kind of stimulus. LUST actually stands for Leaking Underground Storage Tank. The LUST program, administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, provides money to clean up underground tanks that leak oil or other hazardous materials that threaten to contaminate the nation's groundwater. (Whoever said groundwater could not be a sexy topic?)
 Taming LUST may be difficult, but the government has made strides in the quarter-century since it began the program, which oversees cleanups by people responsible for the leaks, and directly cleans up leaks when the owners of the tanks are unknown or are unwilling or unable to do so themselves. All told, 380,976 cleanups have been completed, and the government is working to reduce a backlog of just over 100,000 leaks that have been identified but not yet cleaned up.
 Money for the program usually comes from the LUST Trust Fund, which is financed by a 0.1 cent federal tax on motor fuel. Before the stimulus, Congress had appropriated about $100 million this year for cleanup and ''LUST prevention activities.'' 
 The $200 million in LUST money in the stimulus law, which is being sent to states and territories, is expected to pay for at least 1,600 cleanups, the E.P.A. estimates. The agency pledged transparency in a plan submitted to the Office of Management and Budget, promising to ''provide information on the investments, performance and accomplishments of LUST activities financed by Recovery Act money.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); FUEL TAX (67%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



9 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: Jets' Clemens in Yet Another Battle to Start

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP

DATELINE: CORTLAND, N.Y. 

 BODY:
On the first day of his latest Jets quarterback competition, Kellen Clemens was recognizable by his familiar No. 11 jersey, his usual goatee and the nagging question mark that has hung over his N.F.L. career.
 Reporters gathered around, just as they always have at this time of year. They asked about his latest challenger, his rough opening practice in a driving rain and the future he appears to have only so much control over. They wanted to know how it felt to be the perennial second choice, the guy who makes room for the next guy, be it an aging player headed for the Hall of Fame in Brett Favre or a celebrated rookie in Mark Sanchez.
 Clemens answered the same way he always did: politely, without emotion or complaint. 
 ''There's an opportunity out there for the guy who proves he can help this team win some football games,'' Clemens said. ''And I believe that guy is me.''
 History suggests the opposite. Although this training camp marks Clemens's fourth with the Jets, and this time he sits atop the depth chart, the prevailing sentiment across the N.F.L. is that Clemens needs to outperform Sanchez significantly to win the job.
 Clemens's career has been defined by lack of opportunity and limited by a strange succession of events. He started eight games in 2007 behind an offensive line that ranked among the worst in football and that left him lying on his back in an end zone in New England, clutching broken ribs. He entered 2008 in a competition with Chad Pennington, only to watch the Jets pull off a blockbuster trade for Favre.
 Favre retired (sort of, probably) and the Jets released him, making Clemens's path toward becoming the starter relatively clear. But the Jets made a failed run at Jay Cutler, who ended up with the Chicago Bears. Then they traded up 12 slots to select Sanchez fifth over all in the draft, and handed him the richest contract in team history -- $28 million guaranteed, $60 million with incentives, or more than the gross domestic product of some countries.
 Once again, Clemens finds himself in a familiar situation. The team's new coach, Rex Ryan, has promised an open competition. But Clemens is facing more than just another quarterback. He is facing a rookie the Jets pursued relentlessly and are heavily invested in.
 ''At the end of the day, this is a business that is concentrated on one thing, and that is winning football games,'' Clemens said. ''The Jets are going to put the best players out there at every position, regardless of pay. We are all working to be that player at our given position.''
 On Friday, Clemens called himself the ''old man'' among the quarterbacks, and he has the most experience in this competition. Teammates have always found Clemens mature beyond his years. He is an Oregon-bred farm boy whose family raised cattle on a 3,500-acre ranch, and a 26-year-old family man with two young children.
 Those experiences, and the maturity that they have produced, have allowed Clemens to withstand three seasons filled with setbacks. Fullback Tony Richardson said Clemens's demeanor never changed -- not when Favre arrived, not during the Cutler dalliance, not after Sanchez was drafted.
 ''The mark of a really good quarterback is when they reach that point where they don't allow distractions to bother them,'' Richardson said. ''So it's that type of thing. Can he clear his mind and focus? Kellen has always done that.
 ''In the two years that I've known him, he's had to deal with every situation you can think of. And he has remained even-keel.''
 Even early in college at Oregon, Clemens competed for the starting job. Eventually, he beat out Jason Fife.
 His offensive coordinator there, Andy Ludwig, remembered Clemens's focus and mental toughness. Those same qualities serve him now as he fights for the starting job that has eluded him and against the perception that the Jets did not have a starting-caliber quarterback until they drafted Sanchez.
 ''The guy has the makeup of winner,'' Ludwig said. ''I believe he will be a starter in the N.F.L. For which team and at which time, I don't know.''
 That remains the question of Clemens's career. He struggled in the morning practice Friday, but improved, just as the weather did, in the afternoon. For the first day, at least, the quarterbacks played to a near draw, although Sanchez may have earned a slight advantage.
 Clemens signed autographs after the afternoon practice, a smile stretched wide across his face. Here was another competition, another opportunity, however slight, another set of odds that grow longer as time passes.
 ''If he ends up winning, or not, you know what Kellen Clemens is made of,'' Richardson said. ''Because he's been through everything. And he's still here.''
 EXTRA POINTS
 Running back Leon Washington reported to camp Thursday and said after practice that he felt he had gained nothing by holding out. The Jets hold the leverage in contract negotiations, and Washington said he did not ''feel confident at all'' about working out a deal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Quarterbacks Kellen Clemens, left, and Mark Sanchez taking in what Brian Schottenheimer, the offensive coordinator, had to say at camp Friday.(D1)
 Running back Leon Washington, who has not yet worked out a contract deal, worked out at training camp with Mark Sanchez.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN RIVOLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); RANKINGS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) NORTHEAST USA (54%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



10 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: The New Director of the Ivy League Seeks to Strike an Old Balance

BYLINE: By KATIE THOMAS

DATELINE: PRINCETON 

 BODY:
Like many leaders of athletic conferences, Robin Harris of the Ivy League is looking for new ways to promote athletes and their teams, as well as raise money in an economic recession. Harris, who took over as executive director on July 1, says she plans to redesign the Web site and look for new television partners to broadcast league championships.
 But at the Ivy League, a conference whose very name is more closely associated with academic excellence than athletic prowess, any change must strike a balance between promoting sports and maintaining the league's scholarly reputation. Harris must find common ground among athletic directors, coaches and university presidents, who do not always agree on how to achieve that balance. 
 ''It's a very challenging job because you're managing presidents, and you're managing admissions officers, deans and athletic directors,'' said Steve Bilsky, the athletic director at the University of Pennsylvania. 
 Although she is new to her job, Harris is familiar with the role of mediator. ''She has a lot of experience in working with contrary views and trying to find the most appropriate solutions,'' said David Berst, the vice president for Division I at the National Collegiate Athletic Association, where Harris worked for nine years in a variety of roles. ''She's a problem solver.''
 Harris, 44, said she was beginning the job at a time of relative stability. But a few issues are simmering -- among them, whether wealthier institutions are gaining a competitive advantage by offering more financial aid, and if postseason play should be expanded in basketball and added in football.
 Harris, who holds undergraduate and law degrees from Duke, has spent most of her career working in college athletics. She began working for the N.C.A.A. in 1993 and held a number of positions, including director of the Committee on Infractions and associate chief of staff for Division I.
 In 2002, she joined the Indianapolis law firm Ice Miller. She advised universities on N.C.A.A. matters and defended them in infractions cases. She represented Indiana University in the case involving the former men's basketball coach Kelvin Sampson, who was accused of committing several major N.C.A.A. violations during his time at the university.
 She replaces Jeff Orleans, who retired. He became the first full-time director of the Ivy League in 1984. 
 Harris said she planned to embark on a ''listening tour'' of every Ivy League campus in the fall. Then, she said, she will work with college presidents, athletic directors and others to create a strategic plan for the league. 
 Harris said she was already monitoring the question of whether a difference in financial aid packages was giving members with better endowments -- Harvard, Princeton and Yale are the wealthiest -- an advantage over others in recruiting top athletes. The Ivy League does not award athletic scholarships, but institutions may offer financial aid based on need or academic merit. 
 Bilsky, the athletic director at Penn, said the financial aid issue was among the top challenges the league faced. ''We are a league that was formed originally based on an even playing field in terms of financial aid,'' he said. ''That's now becoming more in doubt.''
 So far, Harris said, she has seen no evidence that differences in financial aid have translated to a competitive imbalance. ''Schools are always going to have certain advantages, and other schools are going to have other advantages,'' she said, adding that the question was complicated because many factors went into selecting a college. 
 When she tours campuses, Harris will probably hear from athletic directors interested in reviving another longstanding debate, about postseason play in football and basketball. In football, Ivy League teams do not play postseason games. In basketball, the league does not hold a postseason tournament, but the league champion earns an automatic berth in the N.C.A.A. tournament field of 64; teams sometimes play in the other postseason basketball tournaments. 
 Bilsky and Tom Beckett, the athletic director at Yale, said they would like to give football players, in particular, more opportunities to play. University presidents have maintained a ban on postseason play for football out of concern that extra games would interfere with the athletes' educational experience.
 Harris said she was not yet considering the idea of expanding the season for football or any other sport. ''I want to be very clear that it's not on the table,'' she said.
 Harris said one of her top priorities would be better publicity for the Ivy League's more than 8,000 athletes and 33 sports. She said her staff was hoping to attract a television partner for the league's newly created lacrosse championship tournament. She acknowledged, however, that finding television partners would be difficult in the current economy.
 Bilsky welcomed Harris's goal of raising the league's visibility. In the past, he said, some members shied from publicity because it was seen as drawing attention from the league's goals of maintaining high academic standards.
 ''I don't think being on television more or marketing more is something that is in conflict with the Ivy ideals,'' he said. ''I think what everyone's anxious to see is how to make the Ivy League better from an athletic perspective -- to sell the brand.'' 
 That competitive spirit is something Harris has taken note of since starting her job.
 ''People in athletics are naturally competitive, so the game is still important,'' she said. ''I think they're friends, it's very collegial, but in the end, Harvard wants to beat Yale, Yale wants to beat Harvard and they both want to beat Princeton.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 4, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about Robin Harris, the new executive director of the Ivy League, described the league's policy on scholarships incorrectly. Although Ivy League institutions grant need-based financial aid packages, they do not also award scholarships based on merit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Harris took over as executive director of the Ivy League a month ago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE IVY LEAGUE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BASKETBALL (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (76%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (72%)

COMPANY: ICE MILLER LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (52%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



11 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 491 words

BYLINE: By SIMON AKAM

 BODY:
BY SEA IS BETTER,
 Top Deck, the Best
 John Maxtone-Graham, who arrived in New York on Thursday, is not a fan of flying.
 ''You're packed uncomfortably into an aluminum tube and hurled across the Atlantic,'' he said. ''I find air travel essentially uncomfortable and graceless as opposed to travel by sea.'' 
 Fortunately, Mr. Maxtone-Graham, a maritime historian, came to New York not in one of those hurtling aluminum tubes but aboard the Queen Mary 2, a 151,400-ton, 1,132-foot ocean liner.
 The gargantuan vessel is moored at the Brooklyn Cruise Terminal in Red Hook, where its towering superstructure and scarlet funnel were visible from the F train tracks well inland. 
 The author of more than a dozen books about passenger vessels, Mr. Maxtone-Graham spends much of his life at sea, where he gives lectures spiced with nautical anecdotes. 
 He was observing his 80th birthday Thursday, and guests came aboard to celebrate the occasion. Over preprandial drinks in the Queen Mary's Commodore Club, he spoke of the heyday of liners, a century ago.
 Steerage class trans-Atlantic tickets were cheap, he said, but the conditions were grim, far different from the Commodore Club. ''You were treated like cattle, which in effect you were, but you were coming to America, which made it all worthwhile,'' he said.
 A walk around the Queen Mary in search of some old-time glamour revealed a mix of scenes. High up, the teak decks gleamed in the sunlight, and the dogs in the onboard kennel had retreated from their alfresco playpen to avoid the heat. 
 Down below, Pauline M. Power, a travel agent, explained that there are still different passenger classes. While the inexpensive tickets are around $1,000, she said, others can be five times that much.
 On deck, Ms. Power added that the ship required a small funnel to fit underneath the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge. On a balcony outside one of the Queen Mary's most exclusive restaurants was a man with long hair and aviator shades, surrounded by a brace of women whose living seemed to depend on their looks.
 And at that moment, above the Brooklyn asphalt and under a burning sky, the glamour of trans-Atlantic ship travel felt more or less intact. SIMON AKAM 
 ALSO
 ON THE BLOG
 Week in Pictures: A roundup of the week's images, including a window dancer, boys at camp, water sports on the Hudson River and a $5 slice of pizza.
 Expanding in a Recession: Even as storefront vacancy rates near record highs, one New York chain is growing: Housing Works, the nonprofit organization that supports H.I.V. and AIDS patients through its thrift stores and other businesses, is increasing its outlets by 50 percent.
 Deal for Child Care Providers: After two years of negotiations, the state and two unions have worked out a two-year contract that will provide health insurance and set payment rates for the 54,000 home-based child care providers whose services for low-income families are subsidized. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Maxtone-Graham aboard the Queen Mary 2. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (90%); CRUISES (90%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); HISTORY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); WRITERS (69%); RETAILERS (62%); RESTAURANTS (61%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (60%); AIDS & HIV (50%); CHILD CARE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



12 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: A Do-Over Of Economy, For Better And Worse

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Ron Leiber, whose Your Money column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
The government went back and checked its numbers -- back, in some cases, 60 years -- and on Friday it released the results, with changes big and small as the statisticians tried to calculate how well the economy had done and where Americans were spending their money.
 The results? The American economy was a little stronger than we thought when times were good, but worse when times were bad. 
 The government decided that it should measure the impact of big disasters in a different way to avoid distortions in some statistics and that it had been overestimating the amount of consumer spending that goes to health care.
 The result was revisions in economic statistics going all the way back to 1947, when it turns out a downturn was a little deeper than had been thought.
 Some of those changes are the result of better data now being available, and a few represent conclusions by government statisticians that they had been making systematic errors -- one of which seems to have slightly exaggerated statistics on how much Americans were spending for energy.
 But other changes simply reflect changed decisions about how to count things. 
 The apparent shrinking in medical care spending -- from 18.5 percent of personal consumption expenditures to 16 percent for the first quarter of this year -- stems from a decision to separate out the money that is paid to health insurers that does not eventually go to paying claims. 
 The extra money from that, and from similar treatment of car insurance as well as other things, led to the creating of a new category of spending in personal consumption expenditures, for financial services and insurance. Those figures had previously been spread around many other items, and broken out only in a report that comes out on a delayed basis.
 In the new treatment, it appears Americans are spending more on financial services and insurance -- $823 billion a year at the current rate, or 8.2 percent of personal consumption spending -- than they are on food and beverages to be consumed at home -- $788 billion, or 7.9 percent.
 In early 1995, the earliest date for which revisions were released Friday -- more will be coming out later this year -- the positions were reversed. Then food and beverages took 9 percent of spending, and financial services drew in 7.2 percent.
 The revision to the medical care spending figures did not change the trend. Medical care took up 16.2 percent of spending in the second quarter of this year, up from 14.5 percent in the first quarter of 1995. 
 Over all, the new figures are in line with a trend often seen when the data is revised: ''Benchmark revisions are in the direction of the inflection,'' said Robert Barbera, the chief economist of ITG. ''The expansion was a bit better than they thought, and the recession was substantially worse.''
 During the period from the end of the 2001 recession to the fourth quarter of 2007, the new figures indicated the economy over all grew at an average annual rate of 2.7 percent, up a bit from the previously reported rate of 2.6 percent. But during the five quarters after that, through the first quarter of 2009, the economy declined at an annual rate of 4.2 percent, much worse than the previously reported 2.8 percent fall.
 In general, we now learn that things that seemed bad before were actually worse. Investment in new home construction fell off at an even faster clip than was thought. Consumers cut back more than had been estimated, particularly in durable goods like cars and furniture.
 The recession officially began in December 2007, according to the National Bureau of Economic Research, but for much of 2008 many economists disputed that, citing data that showed the economy to be still growing. But the new figures show a decline in the first quarter of 2008, and only a small gain in the second quarter, when the Bush administration's stimulus package of tax rebate checks caused a brief spurt in consumer spending.
 Another change in the numbers is the way that the government treats major disasters, like Hurricane Katrina. In the past, much of the losses showed up as reductions to corporate profits, which the government now views as misleading. 
 As a result of the changes, total corporate profits in the third quarter of 2005, when that hurricane hit, are now reported at an annual rate of $1.2 trillion. That figure is 10.3 percent higher than the number the government had previously used.
 In the future, similar adjustments will be made for major disasters -- defined as causing damage of at least 0.1 percent of gross domestic product, or around $15 billion now. But smaller disasters will be treated in the old way.
 Under the old system, the uninsured value of destroyed assets was effectively subtracted from income, both for companies and for homeowners. 
 That will still be true in most cases, but in really large disasters the extra costs will be placed in another account, known as consumption of fixed capital. The result will be that overall G.D.P. figures will not be changed, but corporate profits will be raised from what they would have been.
 The errors in energy were small, but still distorted the numbers. The government now says it was double-counting a tax paid by some electricity consumers and was estimating too much natural gas use by tenants in apartments where utilities are provided by the landlord.
 That cut the annual rate of consumer spending on energy goods and services to $495 billion, from $503 billion, in the first quarter of 2009, bringing the percentage of personal consumption spending down to 5 percent, from 5.1 percent in the old data. In the second quarter, lower gasoline prices helped to bring the percentage down to 4.9 percent, the lowest level since 2004. 
 According to the revised figures, consumer spending on energy peaked in the third quarter of 2008 at 6.7 percent of total spending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The government plans to alter the way it assesses the economic impact of disasters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VINCENT LaFORET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); PERSONAL CONSUMPTION EXPENDITURES (89%); TRENDS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); CONSUMPTION (89%); STATISTICS (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (76%); CONSUMER SPENDING (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE (69%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (69%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



13 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Dealers Welcome Clunker Traffic, Even if It's No Cure-All

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC; Malcolm Gay contributed reporting from St. Louis, Michael Parrish from Van Nuys, Calif., and Angela Macropoulos from New York.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
It had been a dismal July in dealer showrooms -- as bad as every month so far this year.
 But then the federal cash-for-clunkers program kicked in six days ago, igniting the kind of sudden interest in car shopping not seen since zero-percent financing revived industry sales after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 Analysts predicted Friday that July sales of new vehicles, which manufacturers will report on Monday, would be about 11 percent higher than June sales. Most of that jump will be owed to the cash-for-clunkers program, they said. 
 ''I don't think anybody expected the program to be this popular,'' said Greg Martin, a spokesman for General Motors. ''There's no doubt it has jump-started sales.''
 The program provides up to $4,500 for the purchase of a new, more fuel-efficient vehicle, provided the trade-in is old enough and qualifies as a gas-guzzler.
 The annualized sales rate, used to calculate the strength of the market, could top 11 million vehicles in July -- that would be the highest rate since auto sales began plummeting late last year.
 The $1 billion program, which can finance about 225,000 clunker trade-ins, may receive another $2 billion in government funding.
 But cash for clunkers cannot cure all the ills afflicting the American auto industry, which has suffered as a weak economy and the credit crisis drove sales down this year to their lowest level in 25 years.
 ''Nobody is popping Champagne corks because we're still in a very weak economic condition,'' said George Pipas, a marketing analyst at the Ford Motor Company. ''But the traffic we have seen in showrooms this past week is by far the highest this year.''
 Mr. Pipas declined to say how many additional Ford vehicles were sold because of the program, partly because the numbers were growing by the hour on Friday.
 The demand for the rebates had been building for weeks before its official start.
 Last month, Ford established a Web link on recycling old vehicles to its Internet site. In less than a month, the link received 1.1 million visits, Mr. Pipas said.
 The auto-shopping Web site Edmunds.com reported that the number of people considering buying a new car jumped 60 percent on some of its Internet forums.
 The limited time and funding for the program spurred many people to act as soon as it was activated, said Jeremy Anwyl, Edmunds' chief executive.
 ''It's been like a panic, because people thought there would be a shortage,'' Mr. Anwyl said. ''It's hard to tell how many of these clunkers might have been traded in anyway in a few months. But now it's happening in a few days.''
 G.M. and Ford have the largest percentage of older models that qualify for the trade-ins, primarily because they together had more than 50 percent of the United States market when most of the eligible vehicles were built.
 The two most popular Ford trade-ins are the F-150 pickup and Explorer sport utility. The Ford vehicles most likely to be bought were the midsize Fusion sedan and the smaller Escape sport utility.
 The program's affect on overall sales may be temporary, but it could also help generate enthusiasm for an industry that sorely needs it. 
 At dealerships nationwide, people are bringing in older, sometimes battered vehicles to exchange for a voucher that will put them in a new car.
 ''Most of what I have seen has been total junk,'' said Greg Flotte, general sales manager at Don Brown Chevrolet in St. Louis. ''Some of it, you wonder why it was even on the road.''
 One of his customers, Bill Stock, brought in a 1986 Dodge van with 189,000 miles on the odometer, and drove off in a new Chevrolet Cobalt, one of G.M.'s most fuel-efficient cars.
 The 78-year-old, retired restaurateur said that the government cash was the only reason he made the trade-in. 
 ''I'm a big parakeet,'' Mr. Stock joked. ''You know: cheap, cheap, cheap.''
 At one large California dealership, customers were bringing in cars with shattered windshields to help them buy new Fords.
 ''People are dropping off their cars that they had in the garage that are just not worth selling, yet are actually running,'' said Brian Allan, general manager of the multibrand Galpin Motors dealership in Van Nuys, Calif.
 About 200 clunkers have already been bought and put into storage at the dealership, and will be disposed of later as part of the government program.
 A banner at the lot proclaims ''Big Cash for Your Clunker,'' and some of the trade-ins had ''Crush Me'' spray-painted on their hoods. Mr. Allan said that his salespeople had been working past midnight this week to process the clunker deals.
 Many of his customers, Mr. Allen said, were wide-eyed at the opportunity to get in a new vehicle. One remark was repeated by several people. ''It seemed almost too good to be true,'' he said.
 One customer, Sheron Bellio of Burbank, said she rushed to the dealership to make sure she met the deadline for a trade in on her 1995 Ford Explorer for a new Escape.
 ''I had been thinking about getting a new vehicle, but probably would have driven this until it fell apart,'' she said. ''But when I saw this opportunity coming up, I knew I had to take advantage of it.''
 Jeremy Abramson, 34, the general sales manager for White Plains Honda in New York, was shouting orders Friday afternoon to five salespeople to bring him their monthly sales paperwork. 
 Mr. Abramson estimated the cash-for-clunkers program increased business by 20 percent in July. 
 He said he was unfazed by news that the program might have run out of money, and that he assumed the federal government would keep it going with more funding.
 ''When people have been calling us today and asking us about the state of the program,'' he added, ''we've just said, 'Come on in.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Clites, a manager at DCH Honda in Paramus, N.J., walks past several so-called clunker vehicles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
Trade-ins have kept Brian Allan, a manager at Galpin Motors in Van Nuys, Calif., busy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dozens of clunkers have been dropped off at A&J Scrap Metal in Richmond Hill, Queens. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTERNET RETAILING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RECYCLING (72%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (72%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); WEB SITES (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



14 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Why Own When You Can Lease?

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALPERT. 
Daniel Alpert is a managing partner of an investment bank.

 BODY:
BY providing financial institutions with enough capital to survive (and even thrive) over the past year, the federal government prevented the global economy from grinding to a halt. But it may also have unwittingly encouraged banks to slow the resolution of delinquent, defaulted and underwater loans secured by homes and commercial real estate. Such ''extend and pretend'' behavior does little except delay losses -- which helps explain the recent crop of prediction-beating, market-rallying bank earnings reports -- while prolonging and worsening the damage done by bad loans. 
 Just this week, the White House met with a gaggle of mortgage company executives to discuss why their loan modification programs have been so ineffective. In fact, a recent study by the National Bureau of Economic Research illustrates that these programs haven't been ineffective so much as unused: only 8 percent of seriously delinquent borrowers have received any form of mortgage modification and fewer than 3 percent of such borrowers received a concession on principal or interest payments from their lender. By contrast, about 50 percent of those seriously delinquent loans had foreclosure proceedings initiated against them. That's a record rate of 1.9 million foreclosure filings in the first half of this year. 
 Banks, of course, typically lose more money by foreclosing on a home than by renegotiating the principal of a loan -- but, as foreclosure timelines often run 12 to 18 months, that loss takes far longer to show up on their balance sheets. As a result, banks are pushing the mess (and the attendant additional losses) well into 2010 while they maintain the fiction that borrowers will be able to repay severely underwater loans in full. Banks are even beginning to turn down borrower requests for immediate ''short sales,'' in which homeowners sell for whatever they can get and then give all proceeds to the lender, because this, too, means that the bank must record a principal loss at once, rather than down the road. 
 The sheer magnitude of the debt bubble -- doubling to $11 trillion in home loans and adding tens of trillions in total American debt in the past decade -- along with the collapse of real estate prices, make it extremely unlikely that any of these houses will recover their value soon enough to mitigate the losses embedded in banks' balance sheets. And by stretching out the time over which banks will continue to have their capitalization hit by losses, banks cannot soon fulfill their mission of providing new capital for the recovery and growth of the economy. Fearing for their own solvency, banks are instead salting away enormous, record-setting reserves.
 To put the bubble behind us, we need to place mortgage lenders on a path to settling up with underwater homeowners. One of the few viable ways to do this is for banks to accept the voluntary surrender of deeds and then lease the homes back to their former owners. The former homeowners should then retain a right to purchase their homes back at fair market value, after, say, five years, during which time they would need to get their financial affairs in order. 
 Congress could pass legislation, within the bounds of constitutional protection of contracts, that would require lenders to provide such a lease-back arrangement to any borrower who wants one. The former homeowners would pay rents set in accordance with local rates (which in almost all cases would be considerably lower than the total of their former bubble-era mortgage payments, taxes and insurance premiums).
 Homes subject to such lease-back arrangements might also enjoy some unique tax benefits, like accelerated depreciation, and be eligible for mortgage financing from Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or the Federal Housing Administration. This would spur an investment market that would help lenders get the properties off their balance sheets by attracting investment in leased-back homes. 
 Those homeowners who are gainfully employed and less underwater require a different solution. The administration needs to move beyond a policy encouraging mere payment modifications and toward one pushing hard for a renegotiation of principal based on lower, post-bubble values. In exchange, lenders would share in any eventual sales profits -- a restructuring similar to the debt-for-equity swaps imposed by the government on some creditors of General Motors and Chrysler. 
 If banks can't bring themselves to do that, then the loans should be sold to those of us in the private sector who will. That's what the firm I work for is already doing: buying the few distressed loans banks will sell and offering principal modifications that help keep people in their homes. 
 I realize I am proposing the biggest controlled debt restructuring in history, and I expect none of these suggestions will be welcomed by banks, which would be forced to recognize their losses sooner rather than later. Nevertheless, banks need to be freed of the bad loans embedded in their balance sheets -- if not for their need or willingness to do so, than for the economy's need to have it done.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



15 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Tentative Resolution Set In UBS Tax Evasion Case

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
Switzerland and the United States reached an agreement in principle on Friday to settle out of court a case that sought to force the Swiss banking giant UBS to turn over the names of wealthy American clients suspected of tax evasion, a lawyer for the government said.
 ''We have an agreement in principal on the major issues,'' Stuart Gibson, a Justice Department lawyer who is trying the case, said Friday during a conference call with the court. Mr. Gibson told Judge Alan Gold of Federal District Court in Miami that a final deal would be reached by Aug. 7. 
 Mr. Gibson gave no details on how many client names UBS would ultimately be forced to disclose or whether it would pay a fine. The planned settlement means that the two sides will not undergo a scheduled hearing on Monday. But Judge Gold said that if the two sides had not completed a deal by Aug. 7, they would be back in court on Aug. 10.
 UBS and the Swiss government have been battling efforts by the Justice Department to force it to disclose the names of 52,000 wealthy American UBS clients suspected of offshore tax evasion. The efforts have threatened to peel back layers of Swiss banking secrecy, and have unsettled UBS, the world's largest private bank and a pillar of the Swiss economy.
 The push for the disclosure of client names, which came in a civil lawsuit filed by the Justice Department last February, has rocked the Swiss banking industry and escalated into a diplomatic incident between Switzerland and the United States.
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton discussed the issue Friday at a meeting in Washington with the Swiss foreign minister, Micheline Calmy-Rey. 
 A spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, highlighting the diplomatic nature of the issue, told a press briefing after the meeting that ''what we were facing was the prospect of a conflict between U.S. law, Swiss law, that that might in some way complicate a very strong bilateral relationship.''
 ''Whatever decision the parties reached would have an impact on the bilateral relationship between the United States and Switzerland, which meant that it was useful for the ministers to meet this morning,'' the spokesman said.
 After the February lawsuit, UBS eventually agreed to paid $780 million to settle charges that it helped wealthy Americans evade taxes on nearly $20 billion hidden in offshore accounts. One day later, the Justice Department filed a civil suit seeking to force UBS to disclose 52,000 client names. Of the names on the agency's original list, prosecutors are focused on several thousand wealthy Americans with offshore accounts containing tens to hundreds of millions of dollars. 
 UBS had resisted disclosure, arguing that doing so would cause it to violate Swiss banking laws. The Swiss government has said it will block UBS from turning over the names if ultimately ordered to do so by the judge, while the Justice Department has said that it might consider indicting the bank if it refused to do so upon a judge's order. 
 Earlier this month, Judge Gold asked the Justice Department whether it would consider trying to seize the bank's American assets or place them in receivership should the bank ultimately not comply. 
 The Justice Department, which had earlier denied a New York Times report that it was in settlement talks, did not address those questions in court filings and instead disclosed that it was seeking to settle the case out of court.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Micheline Calmy-Rey, the Swiss foreign minister, met Friday in Washington.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX FRAUD (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); PRIVATE BANKING (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (96%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (96%); UBS (NYSE) (96%); BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (96%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); SWITZERLAND (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



16 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: A Legacy Of War: Fake Art In Vietnam

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: HANOI, Vietnam 

 BODY:
Even the director of the Vietnam Fine Arts Museum here doesn't know how many of the artworks and artifacts under his care are genuine and how many are extremely skillful copies. But he says he is going to try to find out. 
 There are nearly 20,000 of these mystery objects, on the walls and in storage, including paintings, sculpture, lacquerware, pottery, ancient statues and traditional crafts. 
 ''We are making efforts to have a comprehensive review of items on display and in our warehouse,'' said the director, Truong Quoc Binh. ''After we evaluate the whole exhibit, we will try to label them all to show if they are original or not.''
 Mr. Binh has been addressing questions about authenticity a lot lately. Curators and artists have been aware of the issue for years, but it became a matter of public discussion only in April, when it was raised at a conference on copyright in Danang. 
 In large part, the confusion is a legacy of the war with the United States, which ended in 1975, and to a lesser extent of a brief border war fought with China in 1979.
 In the late 1960s, fearing that the United States would bomb Hanoi, then the capital of North Vietnam, museum officials removed hundreds of important artworks for safekeeping in the countryside.
 To replace them on the museum walls, it commissioned copies: some by the original artists, some by the artists' apprentices, some by skilled copyists in the museum's restoration department. They were brilliant reproductions -- or variants, as the Vietnamese called those paintings copied by the original artists.
 But now ''it's a disaster,'' said Bui Thanh Phuong, the son of Bui Xuan Phai, a prominent painter. ''Viewers can't be sure if what they are looking at is genuine or fake.'' Mr. Phuong said he does not know which of the museum's seven paintings attributed to his father, who died in 1988, are real.
 In some cases it was apparently not even clear whether the originals or their copies were sent into hiding, said Nguyen Do Bao, the former chairman of the Hanoi Fine Arts Association, who delivered the paper that gave rise to the controversy at the copyright conference in April.
 ''There was no oversight,'' Mr. Bao said in an interview. ''When the artists took them home, they could make more than one copy. They could keep the original. We had no way of knowing.''
 At the conference he told the audience, ''Owing to poor management, the museum lost many original artworks during this time,'' and added that researchers had not been allowed to examine works ''while the public doesn't know that they are reproductions.''
 Asked in the interview why he was bringing up the issue now, after so many years of public silence, he said, ''Now we have more freedom and democracy and we want to raise our voices to make sure the museum is not displaying copies.''
 Nguyen Qui Duc, who owns a small gallery and promotes young artists, said this new openness about the nation's artistic treasures could be taken in the spirit of a policy called hoi nhap, which means integration or assimilation.
 ''This is the buzz word now,'' he said, as Vietnam seeks to integrate itself further into the world economy and conform to international standards and practices.
 ''It's basically an economic slogan, but I see it being applied everywhere,'' Mr. Duc said. ''If we are going to join the world, we've got to start doing these things right.''
 The mysteries of the museum are part of a broader problem of authenticity that has threatened the value of Vietnamese art on the international market. Copies have proliferated since the early 1990s, when the closed communist economy opened, and Vietnamese art became popular abroad.
 Capitalism was new, and artists discovered that they could make twice or even three or four times the money by reproducing and reselling their own paintings. Collectors soon caught on, and all Vietnamese art came under suspicion, Mr. Bao said.
 ''The first question foreign buyers ask us is, 'Is this genuine or not?' '' he said. ''Many galleries, especially in Hanoi, complain to me because of the bad publicity.''
 Some artists have grown wealthy by turning their studios into copying enterprises, said Nora Taylor, an expert on Vietnamese art at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.
 Concerning one prominent artist, Hong Viet Dung, she said: ''He had like a factory churning them out. Like the 'Woman With a Bird,' everyone had to have a 'Woman With a Bird.' You don't know if they're by the artist or a student, but they were selling all over the place. Now he's rich and he has a villa and a Mercedes.''
 In addition, Ms. Taylor said, Vietnam has never had a strong culture of documentation and proof of provenance. Classic works have been reproduced without concerns for authenticity in order to display them more widely.
 Separate ''originals'' of one well-known painting, ''Playing O an Quan,'' by Nguyen Phan Chanh, are now in galleries in both Singapore and Japan, Ms. Taylor said.
 There are at least three copies of ''New Year's Eve on Ho Guom Lakeshore,'' by Nguyen Tu Nghiem, according to Vietnamese art specialists. But each is slightly different in small details, like the numbers of people and trees. Perhaps they are all forgeries, or perhaps they can all be considered originals.
 When the Museum of Fine Arts first opened in 1966, said Nguyen Xuan Tiep, a former deputy director of the museum, it did not have access to many of the antiquities it wanted to display, like classic Buddhist statues kept in pagodas. So it simply made copies.
 ''Since the opening of the museum, we have had both originals and copies together,'' said Mr. Tiep, who has worked at the museum for 28 years. By now, even the staff is not sure which are genuine.
 Authenticating even the most prominent of the museum's works will be a huge task, said Mr. Binh, the director.
 ''We will create an Art Work Evaluation Center,'' he said. ''Its function will be to examine and evaluate all the items, and then we will be able to label them: original or copy.''
 He said the museum was trying to buy modern scientific equipment to test the age of the materials. ''It is complicated work that requires time and expertise,'' Mr. Binh added. 
 Then, breaking into English, he announced: ''In the future, or the near future, we will try to do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bui Thanh Phuong in his home, with works by his father, Bui Xuan Phai. He called the unmonitored art switch ''a disaster.''
 Many works at the Vietnam Fine Arts Museum could be copies that were made to replace the endangered originals during the Vietnam War. Now it is unclear which are real and which are fake. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN MOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); COPYRIGHT (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HANOI, VIETNAM (93%) VIET NAM (94%); VIETNAM (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



17 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Why a Recovery May Still Feel Like a Recession

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, the American economy was in recession. Now it may be about to emerge from that downturn. 
 But if the economy is about to begin growing again, it will be from a very low level. The recession has produced declines far greater than in previous downturns over the past half-century. As a result, the economy may seem to be depressed even after growth resumes. 
 One area where that can be seen is shipments of durable goods produced by American companies. The rate of such shipments fell by more than 20 percent during this recession, and would have declined further were it not for increased production of weapons.
 In no previous downturn since 1958, when the figures began being recorded, had the decline been as much as 14 percent.
 The drop is all the more remarkable because such shipments rose at a relatively restrained rate in the preceding period of economic growth, particularly when military sales were excluded.
 The accompanying charts show the trend in durable goods spending, for military purposes and for other shipments of durable goods, from 2000 through this June. In June, seasonally adjusted shipments for civilian purposes were 19 percent below the average monthly figure for 2000. Shipments of military items were running 123 percent above the 2000 average.
 Those figures are in nominal dollars, not adjusted for inflation. That fact may exaggerate the trend, since prices of some durable goods, like computers, have fallen over the years.
 The United States remains primarily a civilian economy. The military now takes about 8 percent of all durable goods, up from 3 percent in 2000.
 The charts also show just how much change there was in durable goods orders, and shipments, in the first half of 2009 compared with the first half of 2008. 
 Over all, shipments for nonmilitary purposes were down by 20 percent, while orders fell by 27 percent. The declines in some areas were much larger, with orders for primary metal products, like iron and steel, plunging by 44 percent. The government cannot track orders for semiconductors because Intel will not provide figures, but shipments in that category were down by a third.
 Shipments of commercial aircraft and parts fell by just 7 percent, largely because there are long lead times for such orders, and that helped to keep the shipment decline lower than it would otherwise have been. But orders fell 65 percent.
 Those declines are not from boom periods. By early 2008, the recession was on, and durable goods shipments were already coming down. They had peaked the previous summer, and the National Bureau of Economic Research later determined the recession began in December 2007.
 In reporting the June figures this week, the Census Bureau said durable goods orders for some categories were up from the previous month, although shipments were still declining. That provided more evidence that the recession might be nearing an end. But a return to high levels of orders, or shipments, may be many months away.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: DURABLE GOODS SHIPMENTS: PERCENTAGE CHANGE FROM 2000 AVERAGE (Source: Census Bureau via Haver Analytics)
 DURABLE GOODS SHIPMENTS AND ORDERS: PERCENTAGE CHANGE FIRST HALF '08 to FIRST HALF '09 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); DURABLE GOODS (91%); SHIPMENTS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PRIMARY METAL MFG (77%); ARMS TRADE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (74%); DEFENSE SPENDING (74%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (68%); CENSUS (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



18 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 NAMIBIA EXPANDS INQUIRY INTO CONTRACTS WITH CHINA
 Namibian prosecutors investigating government contracts with China and allegations of kickbacks have decided to look at another crucial contract, indicating investigators suspect a pattern of corruption on deals with China. PAGE A4 
 SOUTH AFRICA LEADER TESTED
 After less than three months as president of South Africa, Jacob Zuma is facing a sustained challenge from some of the same people -- the urban poor and unions -- who helped put him in power. PAGE A4 
 CHINA TO TRY RIOT SUSPECTS
 Trials will begin in the next few weeks for people China accuses of playing a role in the deadly ethnic riots that shook the capital of the Xinjiang region in early July, state media reported. PAGE A5 
 UPDATING SPAIN'S ECONOMY
 Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, facing 18 percent unemployment, wants to invest in Spain's future without curtailing workers' rights. Experts say it could be a bold strategy, or pure naivete. PAGE A5 
 RULING ON BRITISH HACKER
 A ruling by Britain's High Court made the extradition of a 43-year-old British computer hacker to the United States more likely, despite claims that he is a harmless eccentric with a form of autism. PAGE A6 
 RULING DELAYED IN MYANMAR
 A court in Myanmar delayed a highly anticipated verdict in a case against the pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, citing technical legal reasons. PAGE A6 
 MUSHARRAF'S '07 ACT IS ILLEGAL
 Pakistan's Supreme Court found that the emergency rule imposed by former President Pervez Musharraf was unconstitutional. The court also ruled that the appointment of all judges inducted during the period were illegal. PAGE A6 
 AFGHAN CIVILIAN DEATHS RISE
 A United Nations report found that 1,013 Afghan civilians were killed in the first six months of 2009, up from 818 during the same period in 2008, with most of the deaths caused by anti-government forces, including the Taliban. PAGE A7 
 IRAN PRESIDENT DENIES RIFT
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, under attack from an opposition movement and critics within his own hard-line camp, denied reports that he had fallen out of favor with Iran's supreme leader. PAGE A7 
 Cuba Confronts Its Economy A7 
 Obituaries
 TONY ROSENTHAL, 94
 Among many sculptures, he created ''Alamo,'' the eternally popular revolving black cube in Astor Place in the East Village. PAGE A16 
 National
 AFTER DECADES OF DEBATE, MONORAIL CHUGS INTO TOWN
 When the mile-long monorail was built for the 1962 World's Fair in Seattle, it was ''the world's most modern transportation system.'' Now, after decades of political wrangling, part of the Sound Transit tram has finally opened. PAGE A8
 FIRED PROSECUTOR REHIRED
 President Obama nominated one of nine United States attorneys fired by the Bush administration, Daniel G. Bogden, to retake his old job in Nevada. PAGE A8 
 AGENCIES DIVERTED MONEY
 Thirteen federal agencies took nearly half a billion dollars off the top of Congressional earmarks for administrative expenses in 2008, nearly 3 percent of the total amount that members of Congress had directed to pet projects in federal spending bills. PAGE A9
 CLEAN NEEDLES IN CAPITAL
 City officials in Washington have asked Congress not to reinstate a ban that has prevented the nation's capital from using local money to distribute clean needles to drug users. PAGE A9
 SHUTTLE CLOSES MISSION
 The shuttle Endeavour closed out a grueling 16-day space station assembly mission with a smooth landing in Florida, bringing Japan's first long-duration astronaut back to Earth after four and a half months in orbit. PAGE A11
 PLEA BY 2 EX-JUDGES REJECTED
 Citing obstruction of justice, a federal judge rejected the plea agreement of two former judges who pleaded guilty in February to a kickback scheme that involved sending juveniles to private detention facilities. PAGE A11
 Funding LUST (Not That Kind) A8
 New York
 PROBLEMS SEEN IN HOUSING USED BY CITY'S HOMELESS
 An inspection of 35 apartments in the Bronx, where New York City houses homeless families, revealed leaking pipes, water damage, doors without locks and infestations of mice and roaches, according to an audit. PAGE A13 
 BEER CAN'T HEAL ALL WOUNDS
 In the spirit of the ''beer summit'' at the White House, some notable and feuding New Yorkers. Donald Trump and Rosie O'Donnell, for example were asked if they would be willing to try to resolve their differences by sitting down for drinks. PAGE A12 
 STILL TASTING THE SWEETNESS
 Guss' Pickles will soon decamp for Brooklyn, bringing the daughters of the founder together to recall the old days, and their father's generous spirit. Big City by Susan Dominus. PAGE A12 
 Business
 'NICE' WASN'T IN THE DEAL
 Why is the country so angry at the big banks? The banking industry helped create a huge financial mess. Taxpayers paid to revive it, but feel they have gotten nothing in return. So, just what do the banks now owe the country? Talking Business by Joe Nocera. PAGE B1 
 U.S. CHECKS ITS NUMBERS
 The government re-examined economic numbers going back decades, and found the economy was a little stronger than we thought when times were good, but worse when times were bad. PAGE B1 
 THE SALE? THAT'S CLASSIFIED
 Secret sales, once reserved for a store's best customers, have become more widespread, especially at luxury outlets, as the recession drags on. PAGE B1 
 UBS CASE MAY BE SETTLED
 Switzerland and the United States reached an agreement in principle to settle out of court a case that sought the names of Americans suspected of tax evasion from the Swiss banking giant UBS. PAGE B2 
 WAL-MART CONTESTS PARODY
 Wal-Mart Canada has asked a Quebec court to stop a union Web site from using the company's name, a variation of its logo and a parody of its slogan. Wal-Mart says it only wants to protect its trademarks. The union says it is trying to thwart its organizing efforts. PAGE B2 
 NEW PUSH FOR FOOD SAFETY
 To keep a deadly strain of E. coli at bay, the Agriculture Department will begin regular testing of meat trimmings. Separately, the Food and Drug Administration is developing stronger standards for fruits and vegetables. PAGE B3 
 A MADOFF SUSPECT'S DEFENSE
 Jeffry M. Picower, the philanthropist accused of helping Bernard L. Madoff perpetuate his vast Ponzi scheme, outlined his defense in a court filing that called the claims against him ''specious'' misrepresentations of the facts. PAGE B3 
 Vacationing in the E.R. B6 
 Washington Post Is Profitable B2 
 Sports
 CAVIC AND PHELPS HEAD FOR POST-OLYMPIC REMATCH
 The most anticipated showdown of the swimming world championships in Rome is a rematch: Michael Phelps versus Milorad Cavic in the 100-meter butterfly. Phelps's victory over Cavic in the event was one of the most replayed moments of the Beijing Olympics. PAGE B10 
 CLEMENS SUED BY EX-TRAINER
 Brian McNamee, the former trainer of Roger Clemens, filed a defamation lawsuit against him. PAGE B11 
 Tour Stage Winner Is Barred B11
 Woods Back in Contention B12
 Arts
 BETWEEN HARD ROCK AND THE MIDDLE YEARS
 Musically, Jarvis Cocker's gig at the Music Hall of Williamsburg was no revelation. His five-piece band ran through most of his best songs with dutiful precision. But this was great theater: the middle-aged man in search of himself, sharing his anxiety. PAGE C1 
 FAKE ARTWORK IN VIETNAM
 Even the director of the Vietnam Fine Arts Museum doesn't know how many of the artworks and artifacts under his care are genuine and how many are extremely skillful copies. But he says he is going to try to find out. PAGE C1 
 THE INSIDE IN OUTER SPACE
 ''Defying Gravity,'' a new science-fiction series on ABC, is about four men and four women sent into orbit with entangled romantic pasts. The show has high-tech props and a sci-fi mystery, but it is layered in feminine concerns. Television Review by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE C1 
 CHASING HIDDEN DRAGONS
 No wonder that the 11-day retrospective of Ang Lee's work at the Film Society of Lincoln Center is called ''Intimate Views From Afar.'' If one thing links his early movies with more recent works it is the perspective of an outlander. PAGE C1 
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A15
 CHARLES M. BLOW PAGE A15
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A15

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); BRIBERY (90%); EXTRADITION (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VERDICTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (75%); RIOTS (70%); TALIBAN (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); AUTISM (51%)

PERSON: JACOB ZUMA (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (56%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (53%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); XINJIANG, CHINA (58%); NORTHWEST CHINA (58%) CHINA (94%); NAMIBIA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (93%); MYANMAR (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



19 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: As Slump Wanes in India, I.P.O.'s Make a Comeback

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: MUMBAI, India 

 BODY:
After a nine-month slump, the stock market has come roaring back here, and corporate India is starting to take advantage. 
 Companies and their investment bankers are lining up a series of initial public offerings to tap into the rising confidence of foreign and domestic investors in the Indian market. The benchmark Standard & Poor's Nifty stock index is up about 80 percent since early March. 
 On Friday, a power company closed a $625 million initial offering, the largest in the country in a year and a half. As of Friday evening, orders had been placed for 22 times as many shares as the company, Adani Power, was offering. 
 Bankers expect the Adani Power deal to be quickly followed by a $1.25 billion offering by a state-owned hydroelectric power company. Other companies planning to sell shares include a state-owned oil company, an electric scooter concern and a wedding products company. 
 ''Right now it looks very good for I.P.O.'s,'' said Chengalath Jayaram, an executive director at Kotak Mahindra Bank. ''For investors' point of view, there is a lot of pent-up demand.'' 
 As in many other emerging markets, stocks here fell sharply last year as the global financial crisis spread. The Nifty tumbled 60 percent from its early 2008 peak to late October. 
 But in the last few months, the market has shot up on optimism that the recovery would come sooner in India, China and other developing nations, than in the United States and Europe. Foreign investors, who pulled back after the collapse of Lehman Brothers, have poured several billion dollars into the Indian stock market in recent months. 
 But the rally has raised fears of a stock bubble, not unlike recent concerns in China, where benchmark stock indexes are up 80 percent for the year. 
 ''I still am figuring out why the market has again almost doubled, and I can't find reasons,'' said Prithvi Haldea, chairman and chief executive of Prime Database, which tracks public offerings and the market. ''Clearly the markets are much ahead of the underlying economy.''
 But for now, investors in India seem undeterred. Since April, Indian companies, including several real estate developers that are still struggling to sell homes and other projects, have raised $3.25 billion from institutional investors through private placements, according to Icici Securities. 
 As more public offerings begin, individuals are investing with gusto. Retail demand for Adani Power shares, for instance, was about twice as high as the supply of shares dedicated for those investors.
 The offering, which was managed by DSP Merrill Lynch, also drew big institutional investors like T. Rowe Price and Credit Suisse, who were allowed to place orders ahead of others but have to hold onto their shares for a longer period of time under new Indian regulations for anchor investors.
 Adani Power, based in Ahmedabad, is building two large power plants in Western India and plans to construct two more. It is part of a conglomerate, Adani Group, that is also involved in ports, coal mining, real estate, power trading and agriculture processing. 
 The current interest in I.P.O.'s appears muted compared with the frothy days of 2008, when investors clamored to buy stock in Reliance Power, a company that had not begun building any plants at the time but was backed by one of the country's best-known executives, Anil Ambani. Demand for shares in that $3 billion offering was 70 times greater than the supply. The stock fell more than 67 percent from its peak to its trough in October. It has since recovered some of that value, but is still about 39 percent down from its highest close. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); MOTORCYCLES (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (71%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (69%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (58%); KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD (58%); ADANI POWER LTD (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (58%); CS (NYSE) (58%); KOTAKBANK (NSE) (58%); ADANIPOWER (NSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (96%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



20 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: America's Not-So-Fast Trains

 BODY:
President Obama noted the other day that high-speed rail is not some pie-in-the-sky idea. ''It's happening now,'' he said. ''The problem is that it is happening elsewhere.'' Japan, Spain, China and Germany are among those with superspeedy trains that rival air travel and easily eclipse the irritations of a car trip. Yet America has only one high-speed corridor, from Boston to Washington, where the Acela Express is often forced by conditions to slow down to average speeds of around 70 miles per hour. 
 Europe's bullet trains can run at an average of about 130 m.p.h., and Japan's zip through the countryside at an average of 180 m.p.h. One difference, of course, is that governments overseas have put big money behind these forms of transit. Spain, for example, plans to invest about $140 billion over the next decade to develop a network of 6,200 miles of high-speed rail lines.
 Mr. Obama made certain that he had some money in his first stimulus package for high-speed rail, but it was only about $8 billion for the entire country. The House appeared ready to help, authorizing another $4 billion, but the Senate recently decided to pare that amount down to a paltry $1.2 billion. Senators Charles Schumer of New York and Frank Lautenberg of New Jersey, who know how much railroads relieve congestion and pollution, should turn their colleagues around.
 It's not as if high-speed rail is a dream only for the East and West Coasts. When the Department of Transportation asked for proposals for using the president's stimulus money, an astonishing 278 plans arrived from 40 states and the District of Columbia. 
 There are big needs -- like money in New York City for the Moynihan Station and funds for the corridor between Los Angeles and San Francisco. But there are many smaller communities that dream about high-speed rail as well. Florida's Tampa to Orlando corridor was the subject of one proposal. Another was for a fast train from Portland to Eugene, Ore. The total number of requests would cost about $100 billion.
 Despite his support of the idea of high-speed rail, President Obama has put off dealing with the national transportation bill for another 18 months. That is a delayed opportunity to move forward on an important new national transportation plan to expand public transit in much the way the Federal-Aid Highway Act did for roads more than 50 years ago. 
 Until Mr. Obama and members of Congress can enact a comprehensive new transit agenda, both have an obligation to make a down payment on high-speed-rail corridors across the nation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); TRAINS (78%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (73%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (79%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (52%); CHARLES SCHUMER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); SPAIN (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (78%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



21 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: House Backs Limits on Pay To Executives

BYLINE: By ANDREA FULLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House approved a measure Friday that would put new constraints on executive pay, capitalizing on populist outrage over multimillion-dollar bonuses to Wall Street executives whose companies were bailed out by taxpayers. 
 The measure passed 237 to 185, with most lawmakers voting along party lines. The Senate will consider executive compensation as part of a regulatory overhaul package after its August recess.
 The bill, introduced by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, enables regulators to ban payments that give workers what the legislation calls ''perverse incentives'' to take risks that could hurt the nation's financial system. 
 The bill gives the Securities and Exchange Commission, among other federal regulators, nine months to propose rules for regulating compensation packages at institutions whose assets total more than $1 billion. 
 ''Empowering financial regulators to prohibit risky bonus practices by financial firms is not only long overdue, but the responsible thing to do for the taxpayers, who have ended up footing the bill for too many corporate excesses,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, said in a statement.
 The legislation would also allow shareholders to vote on executive pay, though those votes would be nonbinding. 
 In addition, it requires that individuals from outside a company's management be included on compensation committees, and that these people receive no pay from and have no relationship to company management. 
 The passage of the bill comes after news on Thursday that companies receiving bailout money had paid bonuses of more than $1 million each to thousands of their employees for 2008. The New York attorney general, Andrew M. Cuomo, reported that nine banks that received billions in taxpayer bailout money had awarded bonuses of more than $1 million apiece to 4,800 employees. 
 Even at weaker banks like Citigroup, which has not returned any of the $45 billion it received in bailout money, 738 employees received bonuses of at least $1 million, out of a total bonus pool of $5.3 billion. 
 ''What we've seen on Wall Street in the last many years is turning that concept of pay for performance on its head,'' said Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland. 
 In the House floor debate, Democrats, who blame excessive bonuses for contributing to the financial crisis, played up the importance of shareholder input on executive pay.
 ''We must have a very strong, definitive say-so from the shareholders,'' said Representative David Scott, Democrat of Georgia. 
 Republicans slammed the measure as yet another example of needless government intervention into private business practices, similar to arguments that they have been making in the debate over health care.
 ''The Democratic majority has a great desire to have the government everywhere in our lives,'' said Representative Tom Price, Republican of Georgia. ''It cuts at the very core of our free market system.'' 
 The bill would ''take away the rights of individual companies to conduct business as they see fit,'' said Michael Castle, Republican of Delaware. 
 Though the Obama administration has advocated that shareholders have a nonbinding vote on executive compensation, and encouraged the elimination of conflicts of interest on compensation committees, the White House has not suggested that federal regulators curb incentive-based pay for risk-taking. 
 At a briefing Friday afternoon, the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said he did not know if President Obama was familiar with the whole bill, though he said, ''Obviously, the legislation includes language and text that we sent to the Hill not too many weeks ago.''
 In a statement, the Treasury Secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, said, ''This is a positive step forward to increase accountability and transparency in executive compensation, and to help ensure that pay encourages long-term performance, not excessive risk-taking,'' 
 The bill is only a part of the president's overall push for changes to financial regulation. Mr. Obama has also proposed giving the Federal Reserve greater authority to monitor financial institutions and establishing a consumer financial protection agency, though members of both parties have expressed unease about the extent of the agency's powers. 
 Democrats acknowledged that the bill, by itself, would not prevent another financial crisis. 
 ''This just scratches the surface,'' said Brad Miller, Democrat of North Carolina. 
 The legislation comes as the Obama administration is separately examining the pay practices of seven big companies that have received significant taxpayer assistance in recent months. The administration's top official for compensation, Kenneth R. Feinberg, has been talking with the companies as he considers whether to approve the compensation of top executives at the American International Group, Citigroup, Bank of America, General Motors, Chrysler and the financing arms of those two automakers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The bill, introduced by Representative Barney Frank, would also let shareholders make nonbinding votes on executive pay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MERIT PAY (78%); BONUS PAY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (73%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%); DAVID SCOTT (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%); TOM PRICE (57%); ANDREW CUOMO (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



22 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BELIEFS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Despite a Decade of Controversy, the 'Faith-Based Initiative' Endures

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS

 BODY:
Ten years ago this month, in a campaign speech in Indianapolis, George W. Bush promised to direct $8 billion in federal financing to ''armies of compassion'' that he believed could combat social ills in ways that government programs could not. 
 Along with tax cuts, the antiterror fight and the invasion of Iraq, the ''faith-based initiative'' became a defining policy of the Bush administration. It opened a new front in the culture wars, reignited longstanding constitutional disputes about church and state, and stirred controversies about whether religion was being bent to political purposes. 
 Opponents of the administration made it a chief point of attack; defenders extolled it: President Bush devoted more than 50 speeches to its virtues, 7 in one 17-day stretch in July 2001 alone.
 The controversy boomed at a symbolic level even though there was little clarity about what, exactly, the program involved or how it worked or, for that matter, what the very label ''faith-based'' covered. 
 No one has done more to fill this gap with accurate information and analysis than the Roundtable on Religion and Social Welfare Policy, a project of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York. Now the Roundtable has issued a final report, ''Taking Stock: The Bush Faith-Based Initiative and What Lies Ahead,'' 91 pages of required reading for anyone serious about the topic. 
 As the title signals, the idea of somehow enlisting the resources of religious groups in the shaping and delivery of government social programs lives on, despite all the controversy. Although some critics hoped to drive a stake through its heart, under President Obama the initiative has found a new life, and a slightly altered name. The White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives is dead! Long live the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships!
 ''Taking Stock'' traces in excruciating detail the Bush administration's failure to win a firm legislative footing in Congress for letting religious groups with the potential to carry out social programs contract with government agencies on the same terms as other groups while protecting their religious identity. 
 Although there was consensus on not using government money for proselytizing or holding explicitly religious services, the stumbling block was always whether religious groups could use religious criteria in hiring for taxpayer-supported positions. 
 Both sides saw the issue as one of discrimination. For Democratic critics, it was a question of using federal financing to discriminate against job seekers on religious grounds. For Republican defenders, it was a question of not discriminating against the right of religious groups, no less than secular organizations, to maintain their own standards and identity. 
 Despite the legislative stalemate, the Bush administration mounted an extraordinary array of executive orders, rule changes and organizational innovations to push its program. The White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives spawned satellite offices in all cabinet-level departments, plus several quasi-governmental agencies, to increase the opportunities for religious groups to win a role in providing a range of social services. 
 ''Taking Stock'' claims that the effort was remarkably successful in overcoming ''the 'culture of resistance' that had existed in the federal government toward faith-based organizations' participation in social service contracts.'' The effort spilled over to 36 states, most with Democratic governors, and more than 100 cities that eventually created religion-based offices or liaisons to religious communities. 
 Beyond that change in culture, what did the Bush initiative accomplish? Because financing flowed through so many different programs, ''Taking Stock'' concludes, ''the full extent of public funding for faith-based social services is largely unknown.'' The report suggests that administration officials were highly imaginative in attributing expenditures to the initiative, and in any case those expenditures fell far below the sums promised by the president. 
 Sadly, there is also little resolution of a central question behind the whole effort: Are religious organizations really more effective in providing social services than government or secular agencies? Or, more precisely, when are they better, when not, and why? 
 ''Taking Stock'' points to a handful of case studies showing religious providers to have had better results than government or secular nonprofit providers. Given the report's generally cautious, even skeptical tone, the examples are notable. But as the report emphasizes, those studies remain far from truly rigorous empirical research. The discussion remains mired in the kind of anecdotal evidence that warms the hearts of proponents but leaves plenty of room for dismissal by the doubters. 
 Finally, the question of politics. Not only critics but also former high-ranking leaders of the Bush initiative complained that mobilizing the energies of religious service providers was often subordinated to electoral strategies. 
 Now ''Taking Stock'' suggests that the Obama effort, besides punting the tough question of hiring over to the Justice Department, will use its machinery not just to help religious groups providing social services to qualify for government financing but also to get religious perspectives on policies for economic recovery, strengthening fatherhood and families, reducing abortions and improving interfaith relations. 
 During the Bush years, a chasm often seemed to separate the officials devoted to the aims of the religion-based initiative from political strategists in the White House. No such chasm exists in the Obama White House. The executive director of the current partnership office, Joshua DuBois, a Pentecostal minister, was an aide to Mr. Obama in the Senate, served as religious affairs director for his presidential campaign and appears to enjoy his confidence. Mr. DuBois's staff is heavily weighted with campaign veterans.
 Such political muscle could very well mean a much more effective channel for religious voices in administration policymaking. Or it could mean a familiar, though probably subtler, effort to woo religious leaders for electoral reasons. Or, of course, both. Needless to say, this is speculative territory that ''Taking Stock'' does not try to explore. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); TAX LAW (77%); CHURCH & STATE (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (74%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (92%) INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



23 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: IN HOPEFUL SIGN, OUTPUT DECLINES AT SLOWER PACE

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL and JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The American economy's long decline leveled off significantly from April through June, the government reported on Friday, crystallizing expectations of a turnaround in the second half of the year.
 The nation's output shrank at an annual pace of 1 percent in the second quarter, after contracting at a rate of 6.4 percent earlier this year. Government spending, helped by the first payments from the administration's $787 billion stimulus package, propped up activity in the latest quarter and accounted for 20 percent of the country's output.
 But consumer spending, which makes up about 70 percent of overall economic activity, has continued to fall as fearful Americans save more. Many economists express concern about what will happen once government spending lets up if consumers remain worried about losing their jobs and their weakened household finances. 
 ''The most severe part of the decline is behind us,'' said Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, an economic consulting firm. ''But it's hard to say how sustainable whatever bounce we might see will be. It depends largely on whether the consumer has the genuine ability to spend, or if it's all just government cheese being handed out.'' 
 The growing reliance on the government to fuel the economy could put the Obama administration and other Democrats in a difficult position. Many economists say that any recovery could be painfully slow, lasting months if not years, and could stoke dissatisfaction among voters. 
 Indeed, the report released Friday included revisions that revealed this recession had been deeper than previously believed, and officially cast the downturn as the longest since the Great Depression, at 18 months. 
 ''We're going from recession to recovery, but at least early on, it's not going to feel like one,'' said the chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com, Mark Zandi. Bright economic spots include a pickup in the stock market, corporate profits and some housing markets, coupled with a slowing pace of job losses. 
 But employers tend to wait to hire more workers until their businesses strengthen, so the job market may not improve for some time. The threat of sustained double-digit unemployment remains in coming months. 
 And with about 15 million people already out of work, pressure may mount on government officials to speed up the recovery.
 ''At some point it becomes Obama's economy, not Bush's economy anymore,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal research group in Washington. ''He made a big mistake in overselling the first stimulus, and then in celebrating all the 'green shoots.' That just opens the door for people to say, 'Where are my green shoots? I still don't have a job.' '' 
 The administration emphasized that the recent economic improvement showed the success of its economic policies, while President Obama successfully lobbied the House for an extension of the ''cash-for-clunkers'' subsidy, which set off a surge in car sales this week.
 ''The trajectory is sure a lot better than it was,'' said Christina D. Romer, chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers. But, she added, ''Consumers are going to be less of an engine of growth.''
 Consumers cut their spending at an annual rate of 1.2 percent in the second quarter and saved more than 5 percent of their disposable income, a stark turnaround from their free-spending behavior during the housing boom. 
 Historically, American consumers have not recognized that a recession is over until well after the economy has begun expanding, in part because they focus on job creation. Still, recent improvements in the stock market, as well as the easing pace of job losses, could help consumers feel that they are finally rebuilding their nest eggs.
 With a larger cushion, and a little more breathing room, economists say, families may eventually start to feel comfortable spending again. 
 ''I don't know when it'll happen, but the savings rate will plateau at some point,'' said Greg McBride, a senior financial analyst at Bankrate.com. ''Consumers will strike that balance between living within their means but still living life.'' 
 Friday's report on gross domestic product -- a broad gauge of the country's output -- painted a bleaker picture of the recession than earlier estimates had. 
 The Commerce Department said the economy tumbled downward at an annual rate of 6.4 percent this winter, more than the 5.5 percent previously reported, as the country reeled from the shocks of the financial crisis. It also found economic growth of only 0.4 percent in all of 2008, compared with earlier assessments of 1.1 percent. 
 Now, even as jobs are vanishing and wages remain flat, many forecasters expect the downturn to level off. Economists say that businesses as diverse as small manufacturers and big automakers are poised to rebuild their depleted inventories, which fell by an annualized $141 billion in the second quarter. That restocking could spur economic growth later this year.
 Stock markets yawned at the report, closing mostly higher, but prices of commodities surged as traders bet that demand for raw materials would rise in the coming recovery. The price of crude oil rose $2.51, to nearly $70 a barrel, and investors snapped up copper, gold and other metals.
 The Commerce Department's quarterly G.D.P. assessment provided a tour through a dreary year. The economy withered during each of the last four quarters, its longest string of declines in at least 60 years. Businesses cut their investments and laid off millions of workers. Imports and exports tumbled. 
 In interviews, small-business owners say that the ground is slowly firming under their feet. Business investment in structures like new factories and office buildings fell at an annual rate of 8.9 percent in the second quarter after declining by more than 40 percent in the previous three months. And investment in equipment and software, which fell 36 percent this winter, dropped a more modest 9 percent in the second quarter.
 But many employers who have laid off workers or scaled back say they are not about to increase their spending or add to their staffs.
 In Nashville, Jerry Robertson laid off one of his 15 employees, cut his budget for advertising and trade shows and moved into a smaller office space to reduce costs at his company, which helps trucking companies manage their operations. His business is down about 10 percent from last year, and clients are still fading.
 ''We do see it not declining as fast as it was, but we don't see any growth,'' Mr. Robertson said. ''We're still going down.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The government reported Friday that the economy contracted at an annual rate of 1.0 percent in the second quarter, indicating the recession appeared to be easing. But the government also revised economic figures going back a number of years, which showed the current recession has been deeper than previously believed. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 National Bureau of Economic Research) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); DISMISSALS (68%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



24 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Alabama Area Reeling in Face Of Fiscal Crisis

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

 BODY:
It is hardly unusual these days for a government building to forgo a fresh paint job or regular lawn care to cut costs. But last week, the director of the Jefferson County public nursing home was told that the county could no longer afford to bury indigent patients. 
 Across town at the juvenile detention center, the man in charge was trying to figure out how to feed the 28 children in his custody when the entire cafeteria staff is let go. The tax collector warned local school districts to expect a six-month delay to get their share of property taxes. In family court, administrators plan to delay child support, custody and child abuse cases, leaving some children in the hands of the state indefinitely.
In every part of Jefferson County -- Alabama's most populous county and its main economic engine -- government managers have been scrambling to prepare for Saturday, when two-thirds of county employees eligible for layoffs -- up to 1,400 -- will be lost in an effort to stave off financial ruin. 
 ''Outside of the city of Detroit,'' said Robert A. Kurrter, a managing director with Moody's Investors Service, ''it's fair to say we haven't seen any place in America with the severity of problems that they're experiencing in Jefferson County.'' Moody's rates Jefferson County's credit lower than any other municipality in the country. 
 In July, the county asked Gov. Bob Riley, a Republican, to declare a state of emergency. Mr. Riley declined, delicately explaining that his authority extended to tornadoes but not to tsunamis of red ink.
 Jefferson County, which includes Birmingham, could be compared to a person who has lost his job, watched his retirement investments evaporate and is stuck with a house that is worth less than what he owes the bank. Some of the county's woes stem from the financial crisis that has pounded so many communities: its sales and property tax revenues are down by $40 million, and it borrowed billions in a sewer bond boondoggle that is the municipal equivalent of a subprime mortgage, using failed exotic bond deals and swaps concocted by investment bankers. 
 But the county has additional troubles: the sewer project was riddled with corruption, and in January a court ruled that a tax the county relied on for more than a quarter of its general fund was illegal because the Legislature repealed it in 1999. 
 State lawmakers could easily fix that problem by re-enacting the tax, but deliberations have dragged on even as the county has halted road maintenance, delayed opening a courthouse, announced plans to close half its customer service locations and asked department heads to submit the names of those who would be laid off on Saturday. 
 Several lawmakers have accused the county commissioners of bluffing. 
 ''We need to keep in mind that this tax was repealed 10 years ago,'' State Senator Scott Beason, a Republican, said Monday at the latest in a series of inconclusive legislative meetings. ''They went out and continued to run up their debt, continued to spend all the money they could find to spend, knowing that this day of reckoning was coming.'' 
 Now, Mr. Beason said, the county was using its own employees as ''hostages.''
 Such criticism was not limited to Republicans. ''They are flat-out lying,'' State Representative John W. Rogers Jr., the Democratic co-leader of the county's delegation, said of the county's financial assessments. ''What they're basically doing is using scare tactics, putting pressure on the Legislature.''
 The tax that was ruled illegal, known as the occupational tax, is essentially a 0.5 percent tax on income, but the phrase ''income tax'' does not sit well with Alabamians. One of its peculiarities is that it exempts a long list of professionals like doctors and lawyers, as well as phrenologists, circus managers and crystal gazers. In 1999, state lawmakers from Jefferson County, who are allowed by legislative tradition to control the county's ability to levy taxes, tried to earmark part of the money for their own projects, and the county balked. 
 In response, the lawmakers voted to repeal the tax. But the county, buoyed by court rulings in its favor, continued to collect it, bringing in about $75 million last year -- more than 25 percent of the county's general fund. 
 In January, a judge ruled that the repeal was valid. Hoping lawmakers would fix the problem, the judge allowed the county to continue to use the tax until the end of the legislative session. But the Legislature did nothing.
 ''It is their responsibility,'' Bettye Fine Collins, a Republican and the president of the County Commission, said after Tuesday's commission meeting. ''They have complete authority over us.''
 Republicans hold the majority in the county's Senate delegation; the House delegation is evenly divided. The County Commission is dominated by Republicans, two of whom served in the Legislature in 1999 and voted to repeal the tax, but are now begging for its reinstatement.
 Mr. Rogers said he would strive to re-enact the tax, if only to prove that it would not solve the county's problems. 
 By that, he meant the sewer debacle, which has not helped the county's credibility with the Legislature. More than 20 people, including three former county commissioners, have been convicted of bribery and kickback schemes stemming from the sewer repairs. At the end of August, Larry P. Langford, the former president of the County Commission and now the Birmingham mayor, will be tried on corruption charges relating to the sewer financing. 
 By then, the cuts in services will have taken hold. Probate Court will shrink to 13 people, from 54, to process wills, adoptions, and commitments of the mentally ill. There used to be 488 people repairing roads and bridges; there will soon be 89. Doug McCutcheon, who has worked in the county maintenance department for 24 years, will be out of work, and so will his cousin Tim McCutcheon, who will have two daughters in college in the fall.
 Adrilisa Steele, 34, a juvenile probation officer, said, ''We are probably going to be standing in line for services like everyone else.'' 
 Ms. Steele meant lines for unemployment insurance and food stamps, but at the courthouse, the lines for car tags or driver's licenses were already very long. People waited for more than two hours, fearful that come Monday, those routine tasks would become much harder. The general attitude, not surprisingly, was one of indiscriminate disgust. Neither the commissioners, nor the legislators nor Wall Street escaped blame. 
 ''The big dogs ate all the bones,'' said Mansoor Butt, 55, a store owner. ''Now we are all out of bones. The chips are gone, and the poker game's gone. You can't play poker without any chips.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Residents of Jefferson County, Ala., lined up for vehicle tags on Friday, acting before cuts in services that were to start Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mary McCullough lives in Jefferson County's nursing home, which is facing layoffs, cuts in services and possibly closing.
Tim McCutcheon, left, and his cousin Doug McCutcheon are being laid off from the county General Services Department.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 (A9) MAP: Some 1,400 workers in Jefferson County will be laid off. (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (90%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BONDS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (87%); CLOSINGS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); FAMILY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FAMILY LAW (77%); NURSING HOMES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); FAMILY COURTS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (75%); LITIGATION (75%); TAX LAW (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (71%); CORRUPTION (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (70%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); DISASTER RELIEF (69%); SUBPRIME LENDING (64%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (60%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



25 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 1, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Obama's Pledge to Tax Only the Rich Can't Pay for Everything, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Behind Democrats' struggle to pay the $1 trillion 10-year cost of President Obama's promise to overhaul the health care system is their collision with another of his well-known pledges: that 95 percent of Americans ''will not see their taxes increase by a single dime'' during his term.
 This will not be the last time that the president runs into a conflict between his audacious agenda and his pay-as-you-go guarantee, when only 5 percent of taxpayers are being asked to chip in. Critics from conservative to liberal warn that Mr. Obama has tied his and Congress's hands on a range of issues, including tax reform and the need to reduce deficits topping $1 trillion a year. 
 ''You can only go to the same well so many times,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a Treasury official in the Reagan administration. 
 In the budget, Mr. Obama and Congress have already agreed to let the Bush tax cuts for the most affluent expire after 2010, as scheduled, but to extend them for everyone else. The top rates, now 33 percent and 35 percent, will revert to Clinton-era levels of 36 percent and 39.6 percent.
 The critics do not have a beef with the government's taking more from the wealthiest Americans, especially given the growing income gap between the rich and everyone else. They object to doing so for health care over other pressing needs. 
 ''I want to tax the rich to reduce the deficit,'' said Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office who heads the Urban Institute, a center-left research group. Similarly, Mr. Bartlett, a conservative analyst who often chastises Republicans for their antitax absolutism, supports overhauling the tax code to raise revenues.
 As these analysts recognize, taxing the rich has its limits both economically and politically, such that members of Congress are not likely to tap that well again and again. 
 Polls show strong majorities supporting higher taxes on those earning more than $250,000 a year, Mr. Obama's target group. Yet some Congressional Democrats are fearful of Republicans' attacks that ''soak the rich'' tax increases will douse small-business owners, too, even if the number of those affected is far less than Republicans suggest. 
 Also, higher rates like those in the House health care legislation could lead to tax avoidance schemes, reducing the government's collections and warping business decisions, analysts say.
 The House measure calls for surtaxes ranging from 1 percent on annual income of $280,000 to 5.4 percent on income of $1 million and more. The millionaires' surtax would push the top tax rate to 45 percent, the highest since the 1986 tax code overhaul lowered all rates in return for jettisoning a raft of tax breaks for businesses and individuals. 
 But the effective top rate would be higher still, counting the 2.9 percent Medicare payroll tax and state and local income taxes. In the highest-tax states of Oregon, Hawaii, New Jersey, New York and California, it would be 57 percent, according to the conservative Heritage Foundation.
 In the health debate, Democrats emphasize that they are not just raising taxes on the rich, but cutting spending, too, mostly for Medicare payments to doctors, hospitals and insurance companies. 
 Also, the Democrats say, at least they are trying to pay for the health care initiative, rather than letting the deficit balloon as the Republicans, along with President George W. Bush, did when they created the Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2003. That program will add a projected $803 billion to the national debt in the decade through 2019, according to the White House budget office.
 ''They charged theirs on the government's credit card,'' Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff, said of the Republicans.
 Even so, Mr. Obama's vow to tax only the rich is a variation ''of Bush's policy that nobody has to pay for anything,'' said Leonard Burman, a veteran of the Clinton administration Treasury and director of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center.
 ''Democrats are more worried about the deficits,'' Mr. Burman added, but ''they put the burden on a tiny fraction of the population that they figure doesn't vote for them anyway.'' 
 Mr. Burman and others recall that in the creation of Social Security and Medicare, Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson insisted that beneficiaries contribute through payroll taxes, both to finance the programs and to give all Americans a vested interest. The same philosophy should apply to seeking universal health coverage, they say.
 ''This idea that everything new that government provides ought to be paid for by the top 5 percent, that's a basically unstable way of governing,'' Mr. Burman said.
 Mr. Obama recently dismissed concerns that taxing the rich to pay for health care would foreclose that option when he and Congress turn to deficit reduction. ''Health care reform is fiscal reform,'' he said. 
 ''If we don't do anything on health care inflation, then we might as well close up shop when it comes to dealing with our long-term debt and deficit problems, because that's the driver of it -- Medicare and Medicaid,'' Mr. Obama said.
 But his no-new-tax admonition for most Americans even now complicates the behind-the-scenes work of the panel he established to recommend ways to simplify the tax code and raise more revenue. 
 The panel, which is led by Paul A. Volcker, a former chairman of the Federal Reserve, is to report by Dec. 4. Overhauling the code, as in 1986, generally creates winners and losers across the board; leaving 95 percent of taxpayers unscathed will not be easy.
 That has already proved true in the health care deliberations. Proposals to raise about $50 billion over 10 years by taxing sugared drinks foundered partly because the levy would hit nearly everyone. 
 And when Congressional leaders opposed Mr. Obama's chief idea for raising revenues -- limiting affluent taxpayers' deductions -- his campaign vow against taxing the middle class made finding an acceptable alternative difficult.
 While the president endorsed House Democrats' surtax idea, saying it ''meets my principle that it's not being shouldered by families who are already having a tough time,'' he could not embrace a bipartisan Senate proposal to tax employer-provided health benefits above a certain amount. He had criticized a similar idea as a middle-class tax during his presidential campaign. 
 Yet taxing at least the most generous employer-provided plans above a threshold amount would meet two elusive goals for Mr. Obama: It would raise a lot of money and, economists say, cut overall health spending by making consumers more cost-conscious. 
 Administration officials recently began promoting a fallback. Rather than tax individuals, it would single out insurance companies that sell ''Cadillac'' plans. David Axelrod, a White House strategist, has described the proposal in populist terms, saying it would hit ''the $40,000 policies that the head of Goldman Sachs has'' and ''not impact on the middle class.''
 That position, analysts predict, cannot hold over time. 
 ''There is no way we can pay for health care and the rest of the Obama agenda, plus get our long-term deficits under control, simply by raising taxes on the wealthy,'' said Isabel V. Sawhill, a former Clinton administration budget official. ''The middle class is going to have to contribute as well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama has promised that 95 percent of Americans ''will not see their taxes increase by a single dime'' in his term. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); HEALTH CARE LAW (73%); TAX FRAUD (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2009



26 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 7998 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Kitchen, Onto the Couch

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAN. 
Michael Pollan, a contributing writer, is the Knight Professor of Journalism at the University of California, Berkeley. His most recent book is ''In Defense of Food: An Eater's Manifesto.''

 BODY:
1. JULIA'S CHILDREN
 I was only 8 when ''The French Chef'' first appeared on American television in 1963, but it didn't take long for me to realize that this Julia Child had improved the quality of life around our house. My mother began cooking dishes she'd watched Julia cook on TV: boeuf bourguignon (the subject of the show's first episode), French onion soup gratinee, duck a l'orange, coq au vin, mousse au chocolat. Some of the more ambitious dishes, like the duck or the mousse, were pointed toward weekend company, but my mother would usually test these out on me and my sisters earlier in the week, and a few of the others -- including the boeuf bourguignon, which I especially loved -- actually made it into heavy weeknight rotation. So whenever people talk about how Julia Child upgraded the culture of food in America, I nod appreciatively. I owe her. Not that I didn't also owe Swanson, because we also ate TV dinners, and those were pretty good, too. 
 Every so often I would watch ''The French Chef'' with my mother in the den. On WNET in New York, it came on late in the afternoon, after school, and because we had only one television back then, if Mom wanted to watch her program, you watched it, too. The show felt less like TV than like hanging around the kitchen, which is to say, not terribly exciting to a kid (except when Child dropped something on the floor, which my mother promised would happen if we stuck around long enough) but comforting in its familiarity: the clanking of pots and pans, the squeal of an oven door in need of WD-40, all the kitchen-chemistry-set spectacles of transformation. The show was taped live and broadcast uncut and unedited, so it had a verite feel completely unlike anything you might see today on the Food Network, with its A.D.H.D. editing and hyperkinetic soundtracks of rock music and clashing knives. While Julia waited for the butter foam to subside in the saute pan, you waited, too, precisely as long, listening to Julia's improvised patter over the hiss of her pan, as she filled the desultory minutes with kitchen tips and lore. It all felt more like life than TV, though Julia's voice was like nothing I ever heard before or would hear again until Monty Python came to America: vaguely European, breathy and singsongy, and weirdly suggestive of a man doing a falsetto impression of a woman. The BBC supposedly took ''The French Chef'' off the air because viewers wrote in complaining that Julia Child seemed either drunk or demented.
 Meryl Streep, who brings Julia Child vividly back to the screen in Nora Ephron's charming new comedy, ''Julie & Julia,'' has the voice down, and with the help of some clever set design and cinematography, she manages to evoke too Child's big-girl ungainliness -- the woman was 6 foot 2 and had arms like a longshoreman. Streep also captures the deep sensual delight that Julia Child took in food -- not just the eating of it (her virgin bite of sole meuniere at La Couronne in Rouen recalls Meg Ryan's deli orgasm in ''When Harry Met Sally'') but the fondling and affectionate slapping of ingredients in their raw state and the magic of their kitchen transformations. 
 But ''Julie & Julia'' is more than an exercise in nostalgia. As the title suggests, the film has a second, more contemporary heroine. The Julie character (played by Amy Adams) is based on Julie Powell, a 29-year-old aspiring writer living in Queens who, casting about for a blog conceit in 2002, hit on a cool one: she would cook her way through all 524 recipes in Child's ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking'' in 365 days and blog about her adventures. The movie shuttles back and forth between Julie's year of compulsive cooking and blogging in Queens in 2002 and Julia's decade in Paris and Provence a half-century earlier, as recounted in ''My Life in France,'' the memoir published a few years after her death in 2004. Julia Child in 1949 was in some ways in the same boat in which Julie Powell found herself in 2002: happily married to a really nice guy but feeling, acutely, the lack of a life project. Living in Paris, where her husband, Paul Child, was posted in the diplomatic corps, Julia (who like Julie had worked as a secretary) was at a loss as to what to do with her life until she realized that what she liked to do best was eat. So she enrolled in Le Cordon Bleu and learned how to cook. As with Julia, so with Julie: cooking saved her life, giving her a project and, eventually, a path to literary success. 
 That learning to cook could lead an American woman to success of any kind would have seemed utterly implausible in 1949; that it is so thoroughly plausible 60 years later owes everything to Julia Child's legacy. Julie Powell operates in a world that Julia Child helped to create, one where food is taken seriously, where chefs have been welcomed into the repertory company of American celebrity and where cooking has become a broadly appealing mise-en-scene in which success stories can plausibly be set and played out. How amazing is it that we live today in a culture that has not only something called the Food Network but now a hit show on that network called ''The Next Food Network Star,'' which thousands of 20- and 30-somethings compete eagerly to become? It would seem we have come a long way from Swanson TV dinners.
 The Food Network can now be seen in nearly 100 million American homes and on most nights commands more viewers than any of the cable news channels. Millions of Americans, including my 16-year-old son, can tell you months after the finale which contestant emerged victorious in Season 5 of ''Top Chef'' (Hosea Rosenberg, followed by Stefan Richter, his favorite, and Carla Hall). The popularity of cooking shows -- or perhaps I should say food shows -- has spread beyond the precincts of public or cable television to the broadcast networks, where Gordon Ramsay terrorizes newbie chefs on ''Hell's Kitchen'' on Fox and Jamie Oliver is preparing a reality show on ABC in which he takes aim at an American city with an obesity problem and tries to teach the population how to cook. It's no wonder that a Hollywood studio would conclude that American audiences had an appetite for a movie in which the road to personal fulfillment and public success passes through the kitchen and turns, crucially, on a recipe for boeuf bourguignon. (The secret is to pat dry your beef before you brown it.)
 But here's what I don't get: How is it that we are so eager to watch other people browning beef cubes on screen but so much less eager to brown them ourselves? For the rise of Julia Child as a figure of cultural consequence -- along with Alice Waters and Mario Batali and Martha Stewart and Emeril Lagasse and whoever is crowned the next Food Network star -- has, paradoxically, coincided with the rise of fast food, home-meal replacements and the decline and fall of everyday home cooking. 
 That decline has several causes: women working outside the home; food companies persuading Americans to let them do the cooking; and advances in technology that made it easier for them to do so. Cooking is no longer obligatory, and for many people, women especially, that has been a blessing. But perhaps a mixed blessing, to judge by the culture's continuing, if not deepening, fascination with the subject. It has been easier for us to give up cooking than it has been to give up talking about it -- and watching it.
 Today the average American spends a mere 27 minutes a day on food preparation (another four minutes cleaning up); that's less than half the time that we spent cooking and cleaning up when Julia arrived on our television screens. It's also less than half the time it takes to watch a single episode of ''Top Chef'' or ''Chopped'' or ''The Next Food Network Star.'' What this suggests is that a great many Americans are spending considerably more time watching images of cooking on television than they are cooking themselves -- an increasingly archaic activity they will tell you they no longer have the time for. 
 What is wrong with this picture?
 2. THE COURAGE TO FLIP
 When I asked my mother recently what exactly endeared Julia Child to her, she explained that ''for so many of us she took the fear out of cooking'' and, to illustrate the point, brought up the famous potato show (or, as Julia pronounced it, ''the poh-TAY-toh show!''), one of the episodes that Meryl Streep recreates brilliantly on screen. Millions of Americans of a certain age claim to remember Julia Child dropping a chicken or a goose on the floor, but the memory is apocryphal: what she dropped was a potato pancake, and it didn't quite make it to the floor. Still, this was a classic live-television moment, inconceivable on any modern cooking show: Martha Stewart would sooner commit seppuku than let such an outtake ever see the light of day. 
 The episode has Julia making a plate-size potato pancake, sauteing a big disc of mashed potato into which she has folded impressive quantities of cream and butter. Then the fateful moment arrives:
 ''When you flip anything, you just have to have the courage of your convictions,'' she declares, clearly a tad nervous at the prospect, and then gives the big pancake a flip. On the way down, half of it catches the lip of the pan and splats onto the stovetop. Undaunted, Julia scoops the thing up and roughly patches the pancake back together, explaining: ''When I flipped it, I didn't have the courage to do it the way I should have. You can always pick it up.'' And then, looking right through the camera as if taking us into her confidence, she utters the line that did so much to lift the fear of failure from my mother and her contemporaries: ''If you're alone in the kitchen, WHOOOO'' -- the pronoun is sung -- ''is going to see?'' For a generation of women eager to transcend their mothers' recipe box (and perhaps, too, their mothers' social standing), Julia's little kitchen catastrophe was a liberation and a lesson: ''The only way you learn to flip things is just to flip them!''
 It was a kind of courage -- not only to cook but to cook the world's most glamorous and intimidating cuisine -- that Julia Child gave my mother and so many other women like her, and to watch her empower viewers in episode after episode is to appreciate just how much about cooking on television -- not to mention cooking itself -- has changed in the years since ''The French Chef'' was on the air. 
 There are still cooking programs that will teach you how to cook. Public television offers the eminently useful ''America's Test Kitchen.'' The Food Network carries a whole slate of so-called dump-and-stir shows during the day, and the network's research suggests that at least some viewers are following along. But many of these programs -- I'm thinking of Rachael Ray, Paula Deen, Sandra Lee -- tend to be aimed at stay-at-home moms who are in a hurry and eager to please. (''How good are you going to look when you serve this?'' asks Paula Deen, a Southern gal of the old school.) These shows stress quick results, shortcuts and superconvenience but never the sort of pleasure -- physical and mental -- that Julia Child took in the work of cooking: the tomahawking of a fish skeleton or the chopping of an onion, the Rolfing of butter into the breast of a raw chicken or the vigorous whisking of heavy cream. By the end of the potato show, Julia was out of breath and had broken a sweat, which she mopped from her brow with a paper towel. (Have you ever seen Martha Stewart break a sweat? Pant? If so, you know her a lot better than the rest of us.) Child was less interested in making it fast or easy than making it right, because cooking for her was so much more than a means to a meal. It was a gratifying, even ennobling sort of work, engaging both the mind and the muscles. You didn't do it to please a husband or impress guests; you did it to please yourself. No one cooking on television today gives the impression that they enjoy the actual work quite as much as Julia Child did. In this, she strikes me as a more liberated figure than many of the women who have followed her on television.
 Curiously, the year Julia Child went on the air -- 1963 -- was the same year Betty Friedan published ''The Feminine Mystique,'' the book that taught millions of American women to regard housework, cooking included, as drudgery, indeed as a form of oppression. You may think of these two figures as antagonists, but that wouldn't be quite right. They actually had a great deal in common, as Child's biographer, Laura Shapiro, points out, and addressed the aspirations of many of the same women. Julia never referred to her viewers as ''housewives'' -- a word she detested -- and never condescended to them. She tried to show the sort of women who read ''The Feminine Mystique'' that, far from oppressing them, the work of cooking approached in the proper spirit offered a kind of fulfillment and deserved an intelligent woman's attention. (A man's too.) Second-wave feminists were often ambivalent on the gender politics of cooking. Simone de Beauvoir wrote in ''The Second Sex'' that though cooking could be oppressive, it could also be a form of ''revelation and creation; and a woman can find special satisfaction in a successful cake or a flaky pastry, for not everyone can do it: one must have the gift.'' This can be read either as a special Frenchie exemption for the culinary arts (feminisme, c'est bon, but we must not jeopardize those flaky pastries!) or as a bit of wisdom that some American feminists thoughtlessly trampled in their rush to get women out of the kitchen.
 3. TO THE KITCHEN STADIUM
 Whichever, kitchen work itself has changed considerably since 1963, judging from its depiction on today's how-to shows. Take the concept of cooking from scratch. Many of today's cooking programs rely unapologetically on ingredients that themselves contain lots of ingredients: canned soups, jarred mayonnaise, frozen vegetables, powdered sauces, vanilla wafers, limeade concentrate, Marshmallow Fluff. This probably shouldn't surprise us: processed foods have so thoroughly colonized the American kitchen and diet that they have redefined what passes today for cooking, not to mention food. Many of these convenience foods have been sold to women as tools of liberation; the rhetoric of kitchen oppression has been cleverly hijacked by food marketers and the cooking shows they sponsor to sell more stuff. So the shows encourage home cooks to take all manner of shortcuts, each of which involves buying another product, and all of which taken together have succeeded in redefining what is commonly meant by the verb ''to cook.'' 
 I spent an enlightening if somewhat depressing hour on the phone with a veteran food-marketing researcher, Harry Balzer, who explained that ''people call things 'cooking' today that would roll their grandmother in her grave -- heating up a can of soup or microwaving a frozen pizza.'' Balzer has been studying American eating habits since 1978; the NPD Group, the firm he works for, collects data from a pool of 2,000 food diaries to track American eating habits. Years ago Balzer noticed that the definition of cooking held by his respondents had grown so broad as to be meaningless, so the firm tightened up the meaning of ''to cook'' at least slightly to capture what was really going on in American kitchens. To cook from scratch, they decreed, means to prepare a main dish that requires some degree of ''assembly of elements.'' So microwaving a pizza doesn't count as cooking, though washing a head of lettuce and pouring bottled dressing over it does. Under this dispensation, you're also cooking when you spread mayonnaise on a slice of bread and pile on some cold cuts or a hamburger patty. (Currently the most popular meal in America, at both lunch and dinner, is a sandwich; the No. 1 accompanying beverage is a soda.) At least by Balzer's none-too-exacting standard, Americans are still cooking up a storm -- 58 percent of our evening meals qualify, though even that figure has been falling steadily since the 1980s. 
 Like most people who study consumer behavior, Balzer has developed a somewhat cynical view of human nature, which his research suggests is ever driven by the quest to save time or money or, optimally, both. I kept asking him what his research had to say about the prevalence of the activity I referred to as ''real scratch cooking,'' but he wouldn't touch the term. Why? Apparently the activity has become so rarefied as to elude his tools of measurement. 
 ''Here's an analogy,'' Balzer said. ''A hundred years ago, chicken for dinner meant going out and catching, killing, plucking and gutting a chicken. Do you know anybody who still does that? It would be considered crazy! Well, that's exactly how cooking will seem to your grandchildren: something people used to do when they had no other choice. Get over it.'' 
 After my discouraging hour on the phone with Balzer, I settled in for a couple more with the Food Network, trying to square his dismal view of our interest in cooking with the hyperexuberant, even fetishized images of cooking that are presented on the screen. The Food Network undergoes a complete change of personality at night, when it trades the cozy precincts of the home kitchen and chirpy softball coaching of Rachael Ray or Sandra Lee for something markedly less feminine and less practical. Erica Gruen, the cable executive often credited with putting the Food Network on the map in the late '90s, recognized early on that, as she told a journalist, ''people don't watch television to learn things.'' So she shifted the network's target audience from people who love to cook to people who love to eat, a considerably larger universe and one that -- important for a cable network -- happens to contain a great many more men. 
 In prime time, the Food Network's mise-en-scene shifts to masculine arenas like the Kitchen Stadium on ''Iron Chef,'' where famous restaurant chefs wage gladiatorial combat to see who can, in 60 minutes, concoct the most spectacular meal from a secret ingredient ceremoniously unveiled just as the clock starts: an octopus or a bunch of bananas or a whole school of daurade. Whether in the Kitchen Stadium or on ''Chopped'' or ''The Next Food Network Star'' or, over on Bravo, ''Top Chef,'' cooking in prime time is a form of athletic competition, drawing its visual and even aural vocabulary from ''Monday Night Football.'' On ''Iron Chef America,'' one of the Food Network's biggest hits, the cookingcaster Alton Brown delivers a breathless (though always gently tongue-in-cheek) play by play and color commentary, as the iron chefs and their team of iron sous-chefs race the clock to peel, chop, slice, dice, mince, Cuisinart, mandoline, boil, double-boil, pan-sear, saute, sous vide, deep-fry, pressure-cook, grill, deglaze, reduce and plate -- this last a word I'm old enough to remember when it was a mere noun. A particularly dazzling display of chefly ''knife skills'' -- a term bandied as freely on the Food Network as ''passing game'' or ''slugging percentage'' is on ESPN -- will earn an instant replay: an onion minced in slo-mo. Can we get a camera on this, Alton Brown will ask in a hushed, this-must-be-golf tone of voice. It looks like Chef Flay's going to try for a last-minute garnish grab before the clock runs out! Will he make it? [The buzzer sounds.] Yes!
 These shows move so fast, in such a blur of flashing knives, frantic pantry raids and more sheer fire than you would ever want to see in your own kitchen, that I honestly can't tell you whether that ''last-minute garnish grab'' happened on ''Iron Chef America'' or ''Chopped'' or ''The Next Food Network Star'' or whether it was Chef Flay or Chef Batali who snagged the sprig of foliage at the buzzer. But impressive it surely was, in the same way it's impressive to watch a handful of eager young chefs on ''Chopped'' figure out how to make a passable appetizer from chicken wings, celery, soba noodles and a package of string cheese in just 20 minutes, said starter to be judged by a panel of professional chefs on the basis of ''taste, creativity and presentation.'' (If you ask me, the key to victory on any of these shows comes down to one factor: bacon. Whichever contestant puts bacon in the dish invariably seems to win.)
 But you do have to wonder how easily so specialized a set of skills might translate to the home kitchen -- or anywhere else for that matter. For when in real life are even professional chefs required to conceive and execute dishes in 20 minutes from ingredients selected by a third party exhibiting obvious sadistic tendencies? (String cheese?) Never, is when. The skills celebrated on the Food Network in prime time are precisely the skills necessary to succeed on the Food Network in prime time. They will come in handy nowhere else on God's green earth. 
 We learn things watching these cooking competitions, but they're not things about how to cook. There are no recipes to follow; the contests fly by much too fast for viewers to take in any practical tips; and the kind of cooking practiced in prime time is far more spectacular than anything you would ever try at home. No, for anyone hoping to pick up a few dinnertime tips, the implicit message of today's prime-time cooking shows is, Don't try this at home. If you really want to eat this way, go to a restaurant. Or as a chef friend put it when I asked him if he thought I could learn anything about cooking by watching the Food Network, ''How much do you learn about playing basketball by watching the N.B.A.?'' 
 What we mainly learn about on the Food Network in prime time is culinary fashion, which is no small thing: if Julia took the fear out of cooking, these shows take the fear -- the social anxiety -- out of ordering in restaurants. (Hey, now I know what a shiso leaf is and what ''crudo'' means!) Then, at the judges' table, we learn how to taste and how to talk about food. For viewers, these shows have become less about the production of high-end food than about its consumption -- including its conspicuous consumption. (I think I'll start with the sawfish crudo wrapped in shiso leaves. . . .) 
 Surely it's no accident that so many Food Network stars have themselves found a way to transcend barriers of social class in the kitchen -- beginning with Emeril Lagasse, the working-class guy from Fall River, Mass., who, though he may not be able to sound the 'r' in ''garlic,'' can still cook like a dream. Once upon a time Julia made the same promise in reverse: she showed you how you, too, could cook like someone who could not only prepare but properly pronounce a bearnaise. So-called fancy food has always served as a form of cultural capital, and cooking programs help you acquire it, now without so much as lifting a spatula. The glamour of food has made it something of a class leveler in America, a fact that many of these shows implicitly celebrate. Television likes nothing better than to serve up elitism to the masses, paradoxical as that might sound. How wonderful is it that something like arugula can at the same time be a mark of sophistication and be found in almost every salad bar in America? Everybody wins! 
 But the shift from producing food on television to consuming it strikes me as a far-less-salubrious development. Traditionally, the recipe for the typical dump-and-stir program comprises about 80 percent cooking followed by 20 percent eating, but in prime time you now find a raft of shows that flip that ratio on its head, like ''The Best Thing I Ever Ate'' and ''Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives,'' which are about nothing but eating. Sure, Guy Fieri, the tattooed and spiky-coiffed chowhound who hosts ''Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives,'' ducks into the kitchen whenever he visits one of these roadside joints to do a little speed-bonding with the startled short-order cooks in back, but most of the time he's wrapping his mouth around their supersize creations: a 16-ounce Oh Gawd! burger (with the works); battered and deep-fried anything (clams, pickles, cinnamon buns, stuffed peppers, you name it); or a buttermilk burrito approximately the size of his head, stuffed with bacon, eggs and cheese. What Fieri's critical vocabulary lacks in analytical rigor, it more than makes up for in tailgate enthusiasm: ''Man, oh man, now this is what I'm talkin' about!'' What can possibly be the appeal of watching Guy Fieri bite, masticate and swallow all this chow? 
 The historical drift of cooking programs -- from a genuine interest in producing food yourself to the spectacle of merely consuming it -- surely owes a lot to the decline of cooking in our culture, but it also has something to do with the gravitational field that eventually overtakes anything in television's orbit. It's no accident that Julia Child appeared on public television -- or educational television, as it used to be called. On a commercial network, a program that actually inspired viewers to get off the couch and spend an hour cooking a meal would be a commercial disaster, for it would mean they were turning off the television to do something else. The ads on the Food Network, at least in prime time, strongly suggest its viewers do no such thing: the food-related ads hardly ever hawk kitchen appliances or ingredients (unless you count A.1. steak sauce) but rather push the usual supermarket cart of edible foodlike substances, including Manwich sloppy joe in a can, Special K protein shakes and Ore-Ida frozen French fries, along with fast-casual eateries like Olive Garden and Red Lobster. 
 Buying, not making, is what cooking shows are mostly now about -- that and, increasingly, cooking shows themselves: the whole self-perpetuating spectacle of competition, success and celebrity that, with ''The Next Food Network Star,'' appears to have entered its baroque phase. The Food Network has figured out that we care much less about what's cooking than who's cooking. A few years ago, Mario Batali neatly summed up the network's formula to a reporter: ''Look, it's TV! Everyone has to fall into a niche. I'm the Italian guy. Emeril's the exuberant New Orleans guy with the big eyebrows who yells a lot. Bobby's the grilling guy. Rachael Ray is the cheerleader-type girl who makes things at home the way a regular person would. Giada's the beautiful girl with the nice rack who does simple Italian food. As silly as the whole Food Network is, it gives us all a soapbox to talk about the things we care about.'' Not to mention a platform from which to sell all their stuff.
 The Food Network has helped to transform cooking from something you do into something you watch -- into yet another confection of spectacle and celebrity that keeps us pinned to the couch. The formula is as circular and self-reinforcing as a TV dinner: a simulacrum of home cooking that is sold on TV and designed to be eaten in front of the TV. True, in the case of the Swanson rendition, at least you get something that will fill you up; by comparison, the Food Network leaves you hungry, a condition its advertisers must love. But in neither case is there much risk that you will get off the couch and actually cook a meal. Both kinds of TV dinner plant us exactly where television always wants us: in front of the set, watching.
 4. WATCHING WHAT WE EAT
 To point out that television has succeeded in turning cooking into a spectator sport raises the question of why anyone would want to watch other people cook in the first place. There are plenty of things we've stopped doing for ourselves that we have no desire to watch other people do on TV: you don't see shows about changing the oil in your car or ironing shirts or reading newspapers. So what is it about cooking, specifically, that makes it such good television just now?
 It's worth keeping in mind that watching other people cook is not exactly a new behavior for us humans. Even when ''everyone'' still cooked, there were plenty of us who mainly watched: men, for the most part, and children. Most of us have happy memories of watching our mothers in the kitchen, performing feats that sometimes looked very much like sorcery and typically resulted in something tasty to eat. Watching my mother transform the raw materials of nature -- a handful of plants, an animal's flesh -- into a favorite dinner was always a pretty good show, but on the afternoons when she tackled a complex marvel like chicken Kiev, I happily stopped whatever I was doing to watch. (I told you we had it pretty good, thanks partly to Julia.) My mother would hammer the boneless chicken breasts into flat pink slabs, roll them tightly around chunks of ice-cold herbed butter, glue the cylinders shut with egg, then fry the little logs until they turned golden brown, in what qualified as a minor miracle of transubstantiation. When the dish turned out right, knifing through the crust into the snowy white meat within would uncork a fragrant ooze of melted butter that seeped across the plate to merge with the Minute Rice. (If the instant rice sounds all wrong, remember that in the 1960s, Julia Child and modern food science were both tokens of sophistication.)
 Yet even the most ordinary dish follows a similar arc of transformation, magically becoming something greater than the sum of its parts. Every dish contains not just culinary ingredients but also the ingredients of narrative: a beginning, a middle and an end. Bring in the element of fire -- cooking's deus ex machina -- and you've got a tasty little drama right there, the whole thing unfolding in a TV-friendly span of time: 30 minutes (at 350 degrees) will usually do it. 
 Cooking shows also benefit from the fact that food itself is -- by definition -- attractive to the humans who eat it, and that attraction can be enhanced by food styling, an art at which the Food Network so excels as to make Julia Child look like a piker. You'll be flipping aimlessly through the cable channels when a slow-motion cascade of glistening red cherries or a tongue of flame lapping at a slab of meat on the grill will catch your eye, and your reptilian brain will paralyze your thumb on the remote, forcing you to stop to see what's cooking. Food shows are the campfires in the deep cable forest, drawing us like hungry wanderers to their flames. (And on the Food Network there are plenty of flames to catch your eye, compensating, no doubt, for the unfortunate absence of aromas.)
 No matter how well produced, a televised oil change and lube offers no such satisfactions. 
 I suspect we're drawn to the textures and rhythms of kitchen work, too, which seem so much more direct and satisfying than the more abstract and formless tasks most of us perform in our jobs nowadays. The chefs on TV get to put their hands on real stuff, not keyboards and screens but fundamental things like plants and animals and fungi; they get to work with fire and ice and perform feats of alchemy. By way of explaining why in the world she wants to cook her way through ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking,'' all Julie Powell has to do in the film is show us her cubicle at the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, where she spends her days on the phone mollifying callers with problems that she lacks the power to fix. 
 ''You know what I love about cooking?'' Julie tells us in a voice-over as we watch her field yet another inconclusive call on her headset. ''I love that after a day where nothing is sure -- and when I say nothing, I mean nothing -- you can come home and absolutely know that if you add egg yolks to chocolate and sugar and milk, it will get thick. It's such a comfort.'' How many of us still do work that engages us in a dialogue with the material world and ends -- assuming the souffle doesn't collapse -- with such a gratifying and tasty sense of closure? Come to think of it, even the collapse of the souffle is at least definitive, which is more than you can say about most of what you will do at work tomorrow.
 5. THE END OF COOKING
 If cooking really offers all these satisfactions, then why don't we do more of it? Well, ask Julie Powell: for most of us it doesn't pay the rent, and very often our work doesn't leave us the time; during the year of Julia, dinner at the Powell apartment seldom arrived at the table before 10 p.m. For many years now, Americans have been putting in longer hours at work and enjoying less time at home. Since 1967, we've added 167 hours -- the equivalent of a month's full-time labor -- to the total amount of time we spend at work each year, and in households where both parents work, the figure is more like 400 hours. Americans today spend more time working than people in any other industrialized nation -- an extra two weeks or more a year. Not surprisingly, in those countries where people still take cooking seriously, they also have more time to devote to it. 
 It's generally assumed that the entrance of women into the work force is responsible for the collapse of home cooking, but that turns out to be only part of the story. Yes, women with jobs outside the home spend less time cooking -- but so do women without jobs. The amount of time spent on food preparation in America has fallen at the same precipitous rate among women who don't work outside the home as it has among women who do: in both cases, a decline of about 40 percent since 1965. (Though for married women who don't have jobs, the amount of time spent cooking remains greater: 58 minutes a day, as compared with 36 for married women who do have jobs.) In general, spending on restaurants or takeout food rises with income. Women with jobs have more money to pay corporations to do their cooking, yet all American women now allow corporations to cook for them when they can.
 Those corporations have been trying to persuade Americans to let them do the cooking since long before large numbers of women entered the work force. After World War II, the food industry labored mightily to sell American women on all the processed-food wonders it had invented to feed the troops: canned meals, freeze-dried foods, dehydrated potatoes, powdered orange juice and coffee, instant everything. As Laura Shapiro recounts in ''Something From the Oven: Reinventing Dinner in 1950s America,'' the food industry strived to ''persuade millions of Americans to develop a lasting taste for meals that were a lot like field rations.'' The same process of peacetime conversion that industrialized our farming, giving us synthetic fertilizers made from munitions and new pesticides developed from nerve gas, also industrialized our eating. 
 Shapiro shows that the shift toward industrial cookery began not in response to a demand from women entering the work force but as a supply-driven phenomenon. In fact, for many years American women, whether they worked or not, resisted processed foods, regarding them as a dereliction of their ''moral obligation to cook,'' something they believed to be a parental responsibility on par with child care. It took years of clever, dedicated marketing to break down this resistance and persuade Americans that opening a can or cooking from a mix really was cooking. Honest. In the 1950s, just-add-water cake mixes languished in the supermarket until the marketers figured out that if you left at least something for the ''baker'' to do -- specifically, crack open an egg -- she could take ownership of the cake. Over the years, the food scientists have gotten better and better at simulating real food, keeping it looking attractive and seemingly fresh, and the rapid acceptance of microwave ovens -- which went from being in only 8 percent of American households in 1978 to 90 percent today -- opened up vast new horizons of home-meal replacement. 
 Harry Balzer's research suggests that the corporate project of redefining what it means to cook and serve a meal has succeeded beyond the industry's wildest expectations. People think nothing of buying frozen peanut butter-and-jelly sandwiches for their children's lunchboxes. (Now how much of a timesaver can that be?) ''We've had a hundred years of packaged foods,'' Balzer told me, ''and now we're going to have a hundred years of packaged meals.'' Already today, 80 percent of the cost of food eaten in the home goes to someone other than a farmer, which is to say to industrial cooking and packaging and marketing. Balzer is unsentimental about this development: ''Do you miss sewing or darning socks? I don't think so.''
 So what are we doing with the time we save by outsourcing our food preparation to corporations and 16-year-old burger flippers? Working, commuting to work, surfing the Internet and, perhaps most curiously of all, watching other people cook on television. 
 But this may not be quite the paradox it seems. Maybe the reason we like to watch cooking on TV is that there are things about cooking we miss. We might not feel we have the time or the energy to do it ourselves every day, yet we're not prepared to see it disappear from our lives entirely. Why? Perhaps because cooking -- unlike sewing or darning socks -- is an activity that strikes a deep emotional chord in us, one that might even go to the heart of our identity as human beings. 
 What?! You're telling me Bobby Flay strikes deep emotional chords?
 Bear with me. Consider for a moment the proposition that as a human activity, cooking is far more important -- to our happiness and to our health -- than its current role in our lives, not to mention its depiction on TV, might lead you to believe. Let's see what happens when we take cooking seriously. 
 6. THE COOKING ANIMAL
 The idea that cooking is a defining human activity is not a new one. In 1773, the Scottish writer James Boswell, noting that ''no beast is a cook,'' called Homo sapiens ''the cooking animal,'' though he might have reconsidered that definition had he been able to gaze upon the frozen-food cases at Wal-Mart. Fifty years later, in ''The Physiology of Taste,'' the French gastronome Jean-Anthelme Brillat-Savarin claimed that cooking made us who we are; by teaching men to use fire, it had ''done the most to advance the cause of civilization.'' More recently, the anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss, writing in 1964 in ''The Raw and the Cooked,'' found that many cultures entertained a similar view, regarding cooking as a symbolic way of distinguishing ourselves from the animals. 
 For Levi-Strauss, cooking is a metaphor for the human transformation of nature into culture, but in the years since ''The Raw and the Cooked,'' other anthropologists have begun to take quite literally the idea that cooking is the key to our humanity. Earlier this year, Richard Wrangham, a Harvard anthropologist, published a fascinating book called ''Catching Fire,'' in which he argues that it was the discovery of cooking by our early ancestors -- not tool-making or language or meat-eating -- that made us human. By providing our primate forebears with a more energy-dense and easy-to-digest diet, cooked food altered the course of human evolution, allowing our brains to grow bigger (brains are notorious energy guzzlers) and our guts to shrink. It seems that raw food takes much more time and energy to chew and digest, which is why other primates of our size carry around substantially larger digestive tracts and spend many more of their waking hours chewing: up to six hours a day. (That's nearly as much time as Guy Fieri devotes to the activity.) Also, since cooking detoxifies many foods, it cracked open a treasure trove of nutritious calories unavailable to other animals. Freed from the need to spend our days gathering large quantities of raw food and then chewing (and chewing) it, humans could now devote their time, and their metabolic resources, to other purposes, like creating a culture.
 Cooking gave us not just the meal but also the occasion: the practice of eating together at an appointed time and place. This was something new under the sun, for the forager of raw food would likely have fed himself on the go and alone, like the animals. (Or, come to think of it, like the industrial eaters we've become, grazing at gas stations and skipping meals.) But sitting down to common meals, making eye contact, sharing food, all served to civilize us; ''around that fire,'' Wrangham says, ''we became tamer.''
 If cooking is as central to human identity and culture as Wrangham believes, it stands to reason that the decline of cooking in our time would have a profound effect on modern life. At the very least, you would expect that its rapid disappearance from everyday life might leave us feeling nostalgic for the sights and smells and the sociality of the cook-fire. Bobby Flay and Rachael Ray may be pushing precisely that emotional button. Interestingly, the one kind of home cooking that is actually on the rise today (according to Harry Balzer) is outdoor grilling. Chunks of animal flesh seared over an open fire: grilling is cooking at its most fundamental and explicit, the transformation of the raw into the cooked right before our eyes. It makes a certain sense that the grill would be gaining adherents at the very moment when cooking meals and eating them together is fading from the culture. (While men have hardly become equal partners in the kitchen, they are cooking more today than ever before: about 13 percent of all meals, many of them on the grill.)
 Yet we don't crank up the barbecue every day; grilling for most people is more ceremony than routine. We seem to be well on our way to turning cooking into a form of weekend recreation, a backyard sport for which we outfit ourselves at Williams-Sonoma, or a televised spectator sport we watch from the couch. Cooking's fate may be to join some of our other weekend exercises in recreational atavism: camping and gardening and hunting and riding on horseback. Something in us apparently likes to be reminded of our distant origins every now and then and to celebrate whatever rough skills for contending with the natural world might survive in us, beneath the thin crust of 21st-century civilization. 
 To play at farming or foraging for food strikes us as harmless enough, perhaps because the delegating of those activities to other people in real life is something most of us are generally O.K. with. But to relegate the activity of cooking to a form of play, something that happens just on weekends or mostly on television, seems much more consequential. The fact is that not cooking may well be deleterious to our health, and there is reason to believe that the outsourcing of food preparation to corporations and 16-year-olds has already taken a toll on our physical and psychological well-being. 
 Consider some recent research on the links between cooking and dietary health. A 2003 study by a group of Harvard economists led by David Cutler found that the rise of food preparation outside the home could explain most of the increase in obesity in America. Mass production has driven down the cost of many foods, not only in terms of price but also in the amount of time required to obtain them. The French fry did not become the most popular ''vegetable'' in America until industry relieved us of the considerable effort needed to prepare French fries ourselves. Similarly, the mass production of cream-filled cakes, fried chicken wings and taquitos, exotically flavored chips or cheesy puffs of refined flour, has transformed all these hard-to-make-at-home foods into the sort of everyday fare you can pick up at the gas station on a whim and for less than a dollar. The fact that we no longer have to plan or even wait to enjoy these items, as we would if we were making them ourselves, makes us that much more likely to indulge impulsively.
 Cutler and his colleagues demonstrate that as the ''time cost'' of food preparation has fallen, calorie consumption has gone up, particularly consumption of the sort of snack and convenience foods that are typically cooked outside the home. They found that when we don't have to cook meals, we eat more of them: as the amount of time Americans spend cooking has dropped by about half, the number of meals Americans eat in a day has climbed; since 1977, we've added approximately half a meal to our daily intake. 
 Cutler and his colleagues also surveyed cooking patterns across several cultures and found that obesity rates are inversely correlated with the amount of time spent on food preparation. The more time a nation devotes to food preparation at home, the lower its rate of obesity. In fact, the amount of time spent cooking predicts obesity rates more reliably than female participation in the labor force or income. Other research supports the idea that cooking is a better predictor of a healthful diet than social class: a 1992 study in The Journal of the American Dietetic Association found that poor women who routinely cooked were more likely to eat a more healthful diet than well-to-do women who did not.
 So cooking matters -- a lot. Which when you think about it, should come as no surprise. When we let corporations do the cooking, they're bound to go heavy on sugar, fat and salt; these are three tastes we're hard-wired to like, which happen to be dirt cheap to add and do a good job masking the shortcomings of processed food. And if you make special-occasion foods cheap and easy enough to eat every day, we will eat them every day. The time and work involved in cooking, as well as the delay in gratification built into the process, served as an important check on our appetite. Now that check is gone, and we're struggling to deal with the consequences.
 The question is, Can we ever put the genie back into the bottle? Once it has been destroyed, can a culture of everyday cooking be rebuilt? One in which men share equally in the work? One in which the cooking shows on television once again teach people how to cook from scratch and, as Julia Child once did, actually empower them to do it? 
 Let us hope so. Because it's hard to imagine ever reforming the American way of eating or, for that matter, the American food system unless millions of Americans -- women and men -- are willing to make cooking a part of daily life. The path to a diet of fresher, unprocessed food, not to mention to a revitalized local-food economy, passes straight through the home kitchen. 
 But if this is a dream you find appealing, you might not want to call Harry Balzer right away to discuss it.
 ''Not going to happen,'' he told me. ''Why? Because we're basically cheap and lazy. And besides, the skills are already lost. Who is going to teach the next generation to cook? I don't see it.
 ''We're all looking for someone else to cook for us. The next American cook is going to be the supermarket. Takeout from the supermarket, that's the future. All we need now is the drive-through supermarket.'' 
 Crusty as a fresh baguette, Harry Balzer insists on dealing with the world, and human nature, as it really is, or at least as he finds it in the survey data he has spent the past three decades poring over. But for a brief moment, I was able to engage him in the project of imagining a slightly different reality. This took a little doing. Many of his clients -- which include many of the big chain restaurants and food manufacturers -- profit handsomely from the decline and fall of cooking in America; indeed, their marketing has contributed to it. Yet Balzer himself made it clear that he recognizes all that the decline of everyday cooking has cost us. So I asked him how, in an ideal world, Americans might begin to undo the damage that the modern diet of industrially prepared food has done to our health. 
 ''Easy. You want Americans to eat less? I have the diet for you. It's short, and it's simple. Here's my diet plan: Cook it yourself. That's it. Eat anything you want -- just as long as you're willing to cook it yourself.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: (PHOTO ILLUSTRATIONS BY ERWIN OLAF)(pg. MM27)
(PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY ERWIN OLAF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES. PHOTOGRAPH ON SCREEN BY PAUL CHI LD/SCHLESINGER L IBRARY, RADCLIFFE INSTITUTE , HARVARD UNIVERSITY.)(pg. MM30)
(PHOTO I LLUSTRATION BY ERWIN OLAF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES . SET DESIGN: JEFFREY W. MILLER. SPECIAL EFFECTS : JANE CHOI . LOCATION: BULTHAUP SHOWROOM, NEW YORK.)(pg. MM32)
(pg. MM33)
 (PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY ERWIN OLAF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES . SET DESIGN: JEFFREY W. MI LLER. SPECIAL EFFECTS : JANE CHOI.)(pg. MM34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); POP & ROCK (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (64%); WD-40 CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (64%); WDFC (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325613 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324191 PETROLEUM LUBRICATING OIL & GREASE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2992 LUBRICATING OILS & GREASES (53%); SIC2843 SURFACE ACTIVE AGENTS, FINISHING AGENTS, SULFONATED OILS, & ASSISTANTS (53%)

PERSON: MERYL STREEP (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Julie & Julia (Movie); Julie & Julia (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



27 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LOCAL STOP CARNEGIE HILL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Bites of Quiche, and Books to Satisfy

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
Few escapist pleasures define summer vacation like easing onto a hammock, nestling into a beach recliner, or zoning out with a good book on the nearest park bench. Two independent bookstores on upper Madison Avenue that put you in such a halcyon frame of mind are Crawford Doyle Booksellers and the Corner Bookstore. The sidewalks in this out-of-the-way neighborhood are navigable, without herds of humans, making it perfect for window shoppers. For reading, the shady park benches of Central Park are just a block west. So is a nonstop dose of culture (and art books) at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Guggenheim, on Fifth Avenue at 82nd and 89th Streets, respectively, and at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, just off Fifth at 91st Street. ROBIN FINN 
 11 A.M. No need to rush; these little bookstores aren't early birds. The closest subway is the Lexington Avenue line, with stops at 86th Street and 96th Street; then biped it for a pleasant stroll westward. 
 NOON John Doyle, co-owner of Crawford Doyle Booksellers, 1082 Madison Avenue (212) 288-6300, would love to sell his original edition of James Joyce's ''Ulysses,'' one of only 1,000 copies, for $20,000. But Mr. Doyle, who opened the shop in 1995 after retiring from I.B.M., is just as delighted to recommend the season's hottest paperback import, ''The Elegance of the Hedgehog,'' a novel by the French writer Muriel Barbery, or a personal rediscovery, ''Stoner,'' a 1965 novel about an English professor by John Williams. The store (the local authors Tom Wolfe and Louis Begley are regulars) also has a basement boutique of collectible toy soldiers and, on the balcony, an independent seller of used books. There has been a bookstore on the site since 1938, and it feels it: wooden shelves, a rolling library-style ladder, and a saleswoman, Dot McCleary, with 30 years of experience. The distressed economy, she said, has not caused customers to forsake books: ''For them, reading is part of life, just like eating; it's feeding the mind instead of the body.''
 2 P.M. Expensive Euro-designer children's apparel is one forte of this neighborhood, but so is something somewhat more economical: the fashionably late, fashionably light bistro lunch. At Bistro du Nord, 1312 Madison Avenue, (212) 289-0997, the house salad with shiitakes is $15.50, the quiche Lorraine and mache salad combination, $14.50. At Pascalou, 1308 Madison Avenue, (212) 534-7522, the duck confit salad is $14.95; the egg white omelet with feta, spinach and roasted tomatoes, $12.95.
 3 P.M. If the cozy, oak-y Corner Bookstore, 1313 Madison Avenue, (212) 831-3554, situated in a former pharmacy and prowled by a cat named Hampton, looks familiar, you probably saw Nick Nolte make a bittersweet purchase there in ''The Prince of Tides.'' According to the manager, Chris Lenahan, this quaint, child-oriented bookshop (almost a third of its 25,000 titles are for kids) was also an inspiration for the beloved but endangered bookstore that Meg Ryan ran in ''You've Got Mail.'' The semi-retired owners live upstairs, and the readings -- the latest was Gloria Vanderbilt on her memoir, ''Obsession'' -- tend to be S.R.O. events. Flying off the shelves: ''Sag Harbor'' by Colson Whitehead, Colm Toibin's ''Brooklyn'' and ''The Bolter,'' Frances Osborne's racy memoir of her decadent great-granny, Idina Sackville.
 5 P.M. After prudently springing for nothing except books and a bit of bistro, spend some gawk time at Linda Horn Antiques, 1327 Madison Avenue, (212) 772-1122, with its covetable inventory of 19th-century antiques, majolica ceramics and exotica from Ms. Horn's worldly wanderings. Then grab a spritzer, or a brioche ice-cream sandwich, at Island, 1305 Madison Avenue, (212) 996-1200, and trek eastward on your way back to the subway. Foodies and oenophiles might pause at Kitchen Arts and Letters, 1435 Lexington Avenue, (212) 876-5550, the 25-year-old Boswell to all things culinary, especially highbrow chefs. These cookbooks will kick the vacation barbecues up a notch. Maybe two.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENN ACKERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details a Carnegie Hill neighborhood of the Upper East Side Manhattan, New York. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (92%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (57%); COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



28 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Homeless In Poland, Men Dream Of Odyssey

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH; Michal Piotrowski contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WARSAW 

 BODY:
Two dozen homeless men are building a ship to sail themselves around the world at the St. Lazarus Social Pension here, in the yard of a former tractor factory. Sparks fly from the rusty 55-foot hull as they weld it into form, even after losing the priest who led and inspired the mission.
 These men with sharply lined faces and blurry, old tattoos have set out to prove their seaworthiness, and to prove that they have some value to society, even if society has largely written them off. 
 ''Some people smack themselves in the head when they hear, and probably think we're crazy,'' said Slawomir Michalski, 51, who was a welder in the famous Lenin Shipyards in Gdansk and joined the strike led by Lech Walesa in 1980 that helped shake the foundation of Communist rule in Poland and the entire Soviet bloc. It was a singular moment in Polish history and one that adds resonance to tales of shipbuilding here.
 But their story strikes deeper chords because, for all the modern tools in the building and corporate sponsors providing the raw materials, their endeavor echoes mythic themes of escape, adventure and redemption that can seem out of reach in a world of biometric identity cards and debt-collection agencies.
 In the process, the 25 hard-luck Poles working on the project are wrestling with the notion of building a dream boat away from the hulking megayachts of the technology mogul Larry Ellison and the Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich, but closer to the ideal of another snakebit sailor who had to rough it: Odysseus.
 But their odds of success grew slightly longer when the unique and seemingly inexhaustible Boguslaw Paleczny -- a Roman Catholic priest and a touring musician who appointed himself as the foreman of the project -- died of a heart attack in June at the age of 50. The men say that his death has stiffened their resolve and that their tale will end up more Capra than Quixote with these forgotten members of Polish society circumnavigating the globe.
 There will be room for only a dozen people on the voyage, including a professional captain. While some of the homeless men called it a lifelong dream, others said they preferred working on the ship to sailing the seas in it.
 As a member of the Order of St. Camillus, Father Paleczny, who wore a typical black cassock marked with a red cross, ran an outdoor soup kitchen at the foot of Stalin's Palace of Culture and Science in downtown Warsaw, a free clinic at the end of an underground train platform at the main station, and the St. Lazarus home (which employees said he refused pointedly to call a homeless shelter).
 Father Paleczny also made money as a professional musician, which included a tour of the United States by car, stopping mostly at Polish parishes. He had even bought with his own money the two brick buildings that became St. Lazarus and signed them over to the order.
 ''After setting up the home, Father Boguslaw realized these people didn't have any goals for the future, they didn't have any dreams,'' said Adriana Porowska, 31, who worked at the home as a social worker and has been running it since Boguslaw Paleczny's death. ''If you asked them what they'll be doing in a year, they have no idea.'' 
 The idea to build a ship first came to Father Paleczny while he was hospitalized with tuberculosis three years ago. After talking with a sailor bunking beside him, Father Paleczny contacted the author of a shipbuilding book in September 2006 and asked if he would donate plans for the homeless men to build a boat.
 ''When you walk into the mission premises, well, they have good conditions there, but the men, they walk around, they seem lost,'' said Bogdan Malolepszy, 74, the author he contacted. ''So I drew this design, and they started building it.''
 For now, instead of skimming the open blue waters of the Baltic Sea, the prow of the ship faces a tattered blue tarp here in Warsaw. On a recent afternoon on deck, one man used an anvil to hold down a strip of steel as his partner welded it into place.
 ''I would say that the quality is proper, correct, but there have been some minor hiccups,'' said Andrzej Sobolewski, 64, the director of the Plock branch of the Polish Register of Shipping who is an inspector. ''But with Mr. Malolepszy's help we've been able to get over them, and we, for our part, have been trying to help with additional inspections.''
 Mr. Malolepszy said, ''It would have no chance in a regatta, but safety comes first, then comfort.''
 The crew has changed over the nearly three years that the project has been under way. Some men have drifted away from St. Lazarus, and others have found work, including one at a shipyard in Norway. Two months ago, two men got jobs at a shipyard in Poland, but it seemed that they would return to the home as the economic crisis bit into orders there, said Ms. Porowska, the social worker.
 ''It'll be one year soon,'' Edmund Polkowski, 52, said with pride. ''I spent time behind bars, and then you have to find your way somehow.''
 The project has survived on a combination of Father Paleczny's earnings, donations and sponsorships. He could not persuade anyone to give him the steel for the hull free, but he negotiated the price down to about 80,000 Polish zloty, a little more than $27,000.
 When he needed nine tons of lead for the ship's ballast, he called foundries in Poland asking for donations until one, the White Eagle Ironworks, agreed. There is a sign in the front of the shipyard for a paint company, Oliva, which gave them expensive specialty paint.
 The project has gained momentum as the ship has grown. ''The closer to the end of the building, the more offers for help we're getting,'' Ms. Porowska said, adding that it was now easier to get donations for the ship than to renovate the second brick building into a clinic.
 Father Paleczny had planned to sell the name of the ship to a sponsor. Since his death, the men at the home have a different plan to honor their friend and benefactor. 
 ''It will be all the more beautiful when it's on the seas,'' said Mr. Michalski, the welder who worked in the Lenin Shipyards, ''and the sails are up, and it's been christened on its maiden voyage, and it carries his name around the world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Homeless men in Warsaw are building a ship to sail around the world. Inspired by a priest who bought the complex where they now live, they have worked on the boat for three years. Participants include, from left, Slawomir Michalski, Slawek Skarbucha, Zdzislaw Pawela and Slawek Mackula.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR MALECKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); BIOMETRICS (71%); STRIKES (69%); DEATHS (62%); SPONSORSHIP (52%); COLLECTION AGENCIES (51%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (51%)

PERSON: ROMAN ABRAMOVICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (87%) POLAND (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (87%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (76%); UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



29 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: PROLONGED AID TO UNEMPLOYED IS RUNNING OUT

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
Over the coming months, as many as 1.5 million jobless Americans will exhaust their unemployment insurance benefits, ending what for some has been a last bulwark against foreclosures and destitution. 
 Because of emergency extensions already enacted by Congress, laid-off workers in nearly half the states can collect benefits for up to 79 weeks, the longest period since the unemployment insurance program was created in the 1930s. But unemployment in this recession has proved to be especially tenacious, and a wave of job-seekers is using up even this prolonged aid. 
 Tens of thousands of workers have already used up their benefits, and the numbers are expected to soar in the months to come, reaching half a million by the end of September and 1.5 million by the end of the year, according to new projections by the National Employment Law Project, a private research group. 
 Unemployment insurance is now a lifeline for nine million Americans, with payments averaging just over $300 per week, varying by state and work history. While many recipients find new jobs before exhausting their benefits, large numbers in the current recession have been unable to find work for a year or more. 
 Calls are rising for Congress to pass yet another extension this fall, possibly adding 13 more weeks of coverage in states with especially high unemployment. As of June, the national unemployment rate was 9.5 percent, reaching 15.2 percent in Michigan. Even if the recession begins to ease, economists say, jobs will remain scarce for some time to come. 
 ''If more help is not on the way, by September a huge wave of workers will start running out of their critical extended benefits, and many will have nothing left to get by on even as work keeps getting harder to find,'' said Maurice Emsellem, a policy director of the employment law project. 
 For many desperate job seekers, any extension will seem a blessing. Pamela C. Lampley of Dillon, S.C., said she sat outside the post office last month and cried because ''it was the first Wednesday in quite some time that I've gone to the mailbox and left without an unemployment check.'' The jobless rate in her state is 12.1 percent. 
 Ms. Lampley, 40, who is married with three children, lost her job as a human resources officer in January 2008 and had been receiving $351 a week, which covered the groceries and gas. Even so, she and her husband, who still has work as a machinist, were sinking into debt. Now, still poorer, she feels devastated because they cannot buy their son a laptop to take to college and she cannot give her 9-year-old son money for the movies. 
 In Ohio, where unemployment is 11.1 percent, Cathy Nixon, 39, a mother of four teenagers from Lorain, has been out of work for much of the time since June 2007, and her benefits -- $313 a week -- run out in September. Ms. Nixon is already fighting foreclosure and said she feared that when the benefits end, ''we'll be homeless.'' She was unable to afford summer camp and baseball activities for her children, despite scrimping on basics.
 Raymond Crouse of Columbus operated heavy construction machinery but has found no work since 2007. Mr. Crouse is 72 and receives Social Security but said that was not enough to live on. The $190 a month he has received in unemployment benefits enabled him and his wife to hang on to the house they bought 15 years ago, he said. But with the benefits ending next month, he fears that they will not keep up. 
 In ordinary times, employers pay into a state insurance fund, and workers who lose jobs draw benefits for up to 26 weeks. During recessions, Congress has often paid for extended coverage for an extra 13 or even 20 weeks. 
 In 2008, as the recession deepened, Congress provided 33 extra weeks of benefits. Earlier this year, President Obama's stimulus plan offered an additional 20 weeks in states where unemployment surpassed 8 percent, if they adopted new federally recommended rules governing these extra weeks. (South Carolina did not make the changes, and benefits there are running out more quickly.) 
 Currently, people can draw benefits for up to 79 weeks in 24 states and from 46 weeks to 72 weeks in others. 
 The stimulus law also, through the end of the year, provided an extra $25 a week to all recipients, exempted a portion of benefits from federal income tax and subsidized Cobra health payments for the unemployed. 
 Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington and chairman of the House Subcommittee on Income Security and Family Support, said he would introduce a bill in September to provide yet another 13 weeks of coverage in states with unemployment rates of 9 percent or higher. ''Legislators will line up quickly when they start getting calls from desperate constituents,'' he said in a telephone interview. 
 The cost would be $40 billion to $70 billion, but the expense would be temporary, Mr. McDermott said. 
 Some business groups remain skeptical. Douglas Holmes, president of UWC, a group in Washington that represents businesses on unemployment issues, said that there were early glimmers of economic progress and that it was premature to extend benefits again. The money might be better spent, Mr. Holmes said, creating jobs and training people to move into emerging industries. 
 Traditionally, many economists have been leery of prolonged unemployment benefits because they can reduce the incentive to seek work. But that should not be a concern now because jobs remain so scarce, said Lawrence Katz, a labor economist at Harvard. 
 For every job that becomes available, about six people are looking, Dr. Katz said. ''Unemployment insurance gives income to families who are really suffering and can't find work even if they are hustling to look,'' he said.
 With the economy still listing, he added, a temporary extension can provide a quick fiscal stimulus. And, Dr. Katz said, when people exhaust unemployment and health insurance, many end up applying for disability benefits, which become a large, unending drain on the Treasury. 
 Ms. Lampley, whose benefits have ended, described the tough job market. She used to make nearly $15 an hour and has unsuccessfully sought office and clerical work at $8 an hour. Mr. Crouse said that even if new building projects were planned, construction slows in the winter cold. 
 And Ms. Nixon said that she had interviewed endlessly for jobs in real estate and office work and that even her teenagers could not find fast-food jobs because laid-off adults were filling them. 
 ''I can't find a job,'' she said, ''and you can't survive if you don't work.'' 

GRAPHIC: CHART: For Jobless, Benefits Running Low: With the nation's unemployment rate continuing to rise, nearly half a million Americans will use up their federal unemployment insurance benefits by the end of September, and an additional million by the end of the year. Twelve states and the District of Columbia, shaded on the map, have had average unemployment rates higher than 10 percent for the three-month period ended in June. (Source: National Employment Law Project) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



30 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Big Dreams, and Debts, At a Small Arts Center

BYLINE: By ALEX LOWTHER and TINA KELLEY

 BODY:
In June, Anthony Leitner was elected chairman of the board of governors of the South Orange Performing Arts Center, which has been carrying a large amount of debt since it opened in 2006. The South Orange Board of Trustees voted July 13 to extend $4 million of its loans to the center. Here are excerpts from a lengthy interview with Mr. Leitner.
 ALEX LOWTHER and TINA KELLEY How do you differentiate Sopac from nearby venues like the Paper Mill Playhouse, the New Jersey Performing Arts Center and those in New York City? 
 When we started, I think it was easy to differentiate our game plan from N.J. PAC, because there are 2,750 seats in Prudential Hall and 514 in Victoria Theater, and we have 400. 
 Being a small venue is both a blessing and a curse. It's a blessing in the sense that there isn't a bad seat in the house, and we can provide an intimate kind of experience. I was with my daughter and we were in the fourth row watching Yo-Yo Ma. Where else are you going to do that? Then we went up and met him in the loft. That's the blessing. 
 The curse is the economics are very difficult in a 400-seat theater. For programming, we said, ''We'll do stuff that they won't do.'' We'll do jazz, we'll do cutting-edge, emerging artists, people who are up and coming. It was a difficult model to put forward when we were not on the map.
 Do you think it would be to Sopac's advantage or disadvantage to disentangle itself from the village? Extending the loans seemed like a foregone conclusion.
 We are not extending the loan for one year with a view of paying it off next year. We will be back next year. The only reason to ask them for a one-year extension is because the interest rates are so low. We're basically making this taxpayer-neutral as long as we live up to our responsibilities to pay that interest.
 So you pay the interest?
 We pay the interest and we have been paying the interest every year. In a way that's contributed to the extra cost. Essentially we have to start again. We have to build up a reserve fund. I don't want to call it a capital fund because I want to be able to dip into it for operating expenses if we need it. We just have to build up a fund over the next four years that will put us in a position to pay this loan off.
 Do you actually think it's possible to pay off this debt by 2014?
 It really does depend on the economy. Ultimately people will -- the 20 percent of donors who will be responsible for 80 percent of the $3.5 million are going to contribute that out of appreciated assets. We need an opportunity for those assets to appreciate again. You tell me where the Dow will be in four years and I'll tell you if we'll make it.
 What's your personal stake in the center?
 I guess I'm guilty of enthusiasms. Sopac has become one of my enthusiasms. I probably have too many. I really love the arts. And I love the idea that we can have a facility like this who can bring the kinds of performances that I particularly like and am willing to support. I've underwritten shows in the last two years and am underwriting Chanticleer this year. I underwrote them two years ago and we're having them back this year to do their Christmas program in November. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ARTS LOVER: Anthony Leitner 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); THEATER (90%); BOARD CHANGES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



31 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Hard-Boiled Britons After Mr. Hitler's War

BYLINE: By DAVE KEHR

 BODY:
AS everyone knows, the British cinema of the postwar period consisted of David Lean (''Great Expectations''), Laurence Olivier (''Hamlet'') and those charming Ealing comedies (''The Man in the White Suit''). 
 Except that it didn't. The Britons weren't just producing high-toned, literary films intended for export, though it's easy to get that impression from reading most of the standard film histories. Britain was also home to a rich tradition of genre filmmaking -- thrillers, musicals, comedies and crime films -- much of which remains unknown to American audiences. 
 Brit Noir, a four week, 44-film series that begins Friday at Film Forum in Manhattan, offers a tantalizing peek at a vast, still largely unexplored body of work: the crime films and thrillers that began to appear in the years just before World War II and came into their own between the end of the war and the late 1950s. The full schedule is at filmforum.org. 
 The series kicks off with the 1949 Carol Reed film ''The Third Man,'' perhaps the most famous of British films noirs. Its Britishness may be open to question (it stars two Americans, Joseph Cotten and Orson Welles, and was co-produced by a third, David O. Selznick), but it's noir credentials are not: Here is the requisite naive hero (an American pulp novelist adrift in Vienna), a diabolical villain (a black marketer who specializes in penicillin) and a femme fatale (the Italian actress Alida Valli) who beckons the hero to his destruction, all filmed in an exaggerated Expressionist style full of arching shadows and bizarre camera angles. 
 The same can't be said for most of the other films on the program, which tend to be more straightforward thrillers, heist films and police procedurals, shot with a British restraint. But like American noir, these films seem to stem from a social malaise that became more acute with the end of the war. In England the old certainties were crumbling, as Clement Attlee's Labour government replaced Winston Churchill's Conservatives. In a country crippled by foreign debt, food shortages were rampant (rationing persisted until 1954), trade unionism was on the rise, the empire was slipping away and the welfare state was rising. 
 One archetypical character of the period was the ''spiv'' -- the petty criminal from a working-class background whose activities were often related to the black market. As played by Richard Attenborough (''Brighton Rock'' ), William Hartnell (''Appointment With Murder'') or Nigel Patrick (''Noose''), the spiv bears a resemblance to his American gangster cousin, but usually lacks his hubris and greed. 
 These are little men struggling to survive, often portrayed sympathetically, as in Robert Hamer's great East End panorama of 1947, ''It Always Rains on Sunday.'' The spiv's female counterpart was the disreputable nightclub girl, definitively incarnated by England's first homegrown sex symbol, the overflowing Diana Dors (''Good Time Girl,''''The Long Haul,''''Yield to the Night'').
 Passing into irrelevance, the aristocracy found unflattering representatives in the supercilious psychopaths played by Robert Newton (''Hatter's Castle,''''Obsession'') and Eric Portman (''Corridor of Mirrors'' and ''Wanted for Murder'' ). Ominous foreigners with Teutonic accents, like Horst Buchholz in ''Tiger Bay,'' Anton Walbrook in ''Gaslight,'' Peter van Eyck in ''The Snorkel'' and Carl Boehm in ''Peeping Tom'' reminded audiences of the dangers lurking on the Continent (played out in full paranoid mode in ''So Long at the Fair,'' set during the Paris Exposition of 1889). 
 Class tensions, perhaps too immediate to be played out in contemporary form, slipped into Victorian drag for costume melodramas like ''Blanche Fury'' and ''Footsteps in the Fog,'' in which Stewart Granger is seduced by scheming domestics (played, respectively, by Valerie Hobson and Jean Simmons). 
 American stars turn up with regularity in these films, perhaps because their presence helped to ensure a stateside release: Victor Mature (''The Long Haul''), Carole Landis (''Noose''), Arlene Dahl (''She Played With Fire''), as well as Richard Widmark and Gene Tierney in the 20th Century Fox production ''Night and the City'' and John Ireland and Gloria Grahame in ''The Good Die Young.'' In the bizarre 1948 ''No Orchids for Miss Blandish,'' the Hollywood character actor Jack La Rue is on hand to add a touch of authenticity to an otherwise spectacularly unconvincing attempt to recreate an urban American underworld on a British soundstage (the film's brutality and sexual innuendo caused a scandal in its day). 
 More significant was the American presence behind the camera. In the 1930s, directors like Raoul Walsh, Allan Dwan and William Cameron Menzies (represented by the lively 1937 film ''The Green Cockatoo,'' from a story by Graham Greene) might nip over for a film or two. But by the late '40s Britain had become a refuge for those pushed out of the United States by the blacklist or with reasonable fears of it: Jules Dassin (''Night and the City''), Edward Dmytryk (''Obsession''), Joseph Losey(''The Criminal''). One of the real discoveries of the Film Forum series is ''Hell Drivers,'' directed by the American expatriate Cy Endfield; a story of crazed competition among the drivers for a gravel-hauling company in a provincial town, it achieves an intensity of action and an existential resonance comparable to ''The Wages of Fear.''
 Most intriguingly, there are British directors to be discovered here, too -- Britain's equivalents of the Hollywood studio craftsmen who kept the genre system spinning. The wide-net nature of the Film Forum retrospective precludes going into any individual careers in depth, but among the promising subjects are Val Guest (represented by the crisp realism of ''Hell Is a City'' ), John Harlow (whose ''Appointment With Crime'' has the blunt efficiency of an American B-picture) and the smooth, insinuating Lawrence Huntington (with two films on tap, the Hitchcockian ''Wanted for Murder'' and the swooningly masochistic James Mason vehicle ''The Upturned Glass''). 
 One particularly deserving candidate for attention is Roy Ward Baker, whose long career in movies (''A Night to Remember,'' 1958) and television (''The Avengers'') is represented here by his first feature, ''The October Man,'' from 1947. John Mills stars in this work, written by the novelist Eric Ambler, on the noir theme of the amnesia victim who may or may not be a murderer. 
 The familiar story is brought to life by subtly subjective direction that emphasizes the character's reticence and anxiety, while the oppressive middle-class boardinghouse where much of the action takes place is described with acerbic precision. Mr. Baker (he will turn 93 in December) does not indulge in the stylistic extravagances of ''The Third Man,'' but his film seems all the better, and all the more British, for his self-effacing steadiness and concentration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Cy Endfield's ''Hell Drivers'' (1957), with Stanley Baker, left, and Herbert Lom, and Lewis Allen's ''So Evil My Love'' (1948), below, with Ray Milland, are part of the Film Forum series Brit Noir. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MGM
 PHOTOFEST) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); WORLD WAR II (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (90%); FILM GENRES (89%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); LITERATURE (76%); LITERATURE GENRES (76%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); MURDER (75%); FILM HISTORY (73%); WRITERS (71%); MISDEMEANORS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (62%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



32 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: A Wet Blanket Over the End of That Long Dry Spell

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
DEEP in our pinstriped souls, Yankee fans know that for the last several seasons, the Red Sox have been the better team, the better organization, the better franchise. It's galling to admit, but indisputable. While the Yankees were buying pitchers in bulk (Randy Johnson, Kevin Brown, Jaret Wright, Carl Pavano), the Red Sox were building with credible pieces -- Kevin Youkilis, Dustin Pedroia, Josh Beckett, Jon Lester, Jacoby Ellsbury, Mike Lowell -- all guys you never want to face in a tight game or a tie series. In the battle of general managers, Theo Epstein was eating Brian Cashman's lunch. And the upshot was that in 2004 and 2007 the Red Sox won their first World Series since just before they traded Babe Ruth to the Yankees (who in the meantime won 26), reversing the Curse, in the now familiar phrase.
 Of course none of this would have happened without David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez in the heart of the lineup, twin sluggers as fearsome as Mays and McCovey, Mantle and Maris, Aaron and Adcock and, yes, even Ruth and Gehrig. Baseball fans under 40 have never seen another tandem like them in a single batting order. 
 This week we learned, however, that Ortiz and Ramirez were quite possibly cheating, the word having leaked out that they failed a drug test in 2003. They were two more baseball stars caught using steroids or other performance-enhancing substances. (Actually, we were pretty suspicious of Ramirez, now with the Los Angeles Dodgers, already; he failed a drug test this year and was suspended for 50 games.)
 As a Yankee fan and a true loather of the Red Sox and their proud nation, I'm having trouble parsing my feelings at this news. I can't, in good conscience, go all smug. The Yanks have had a lineup of their own steroid experimenters, after all, so about the best I can say is that they cheated and we cheated and they beat us. And I even have a little bit of sympathy for Sox fans in this, because I don't blame them for being Sox fans. For a genuine fan, your team isn't anything you choose any more than you choose your parents, and you don't stop loving them when they disappoint you. 
 Still, one of the things that distinguishes Yankee fans from all others is that we are always perfectly cognizant of how widely disparaged, outside of our own circle, the Yankees are. The team's wealth, the team's hubris, the team's blustery ownership, the team's corporate facade -- these are all resentable qualities; I get it. Yankee fans live with the idea that all the success the team has garnered on the field is colored by -- some might say tainted by -- an unfair economic advantage and a management that seems to have no compunction about pressing it. Do we deserve all those championships? That little nag on the conscience is the price of rooting for the Yankees.
 The Red Sox, of course, have won only two championships in the last 90 years, so no one resents them in quite the same way. But now their fans -- if they're honest -- have to have that same sort of pesky doubt. Would they have won if their stars hadn't been juicing? Does it matter? Do they have to reverse the reverse and go back to the Curse? 
 I can't answer for them, but the discomfort they're feeling?
 I like it.
 The Curse had run its course. Or that was the assumption in 2004, when the Red Sox won their first World Series since 1918. But last week, two of the series' Boston stars, Manny Ramirez and David Ortiz, were named in the endless steroid scandal. Should the calendar be reset? The Curse restored? Two reporters for The Times, who wear rival caps on their days off, weigh in. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last week about a Yankee fan's perspective on Manny Ramirez and David Ortiz cited previous pairs of baseball sluggers and erroneously included ''Aaron and Adcock'' along with Mays and McCovey, Mantle and Maris, and Ruth and Gehrig. Although Joe Adcock was an All-Star slugger with the Milwaukee Braves, it was another teammate of Henry Aaron's, Eddie Mathews, who was the greater slugger. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Say It Ain't So: Alex Rodriguez and David Ortiz have both been linked to steroids.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEFT, JOHN BAZEMORE/ ASSOCIATED PRESS
RIGHT, BRIAN SNYDER/REUTERS)(pg. WK1)
 Freeze Frame: Derek Jeter and David Ortiz in Game 5 of the American League Championship Series in 2004. Boston won. The rest is history.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY HERSHORN/REUTERS)(pg. WK2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); DRUG TESTING (86%); STEROIDS (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (75%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (93%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (58%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



33 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE CHATTER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 135 words

 BODY:
''If the bank lost money, where do you get the money to pay the bonus?'' Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, who released a report showing that thousands of top traders and bankers on Wall Street were awarded huge bonuses and pay packages last year, even as their employers were battered by the financial crisis. 
 ''Wow.'' Bailey Wood, a spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers Association, on news that consumers had sought federal rebates on about a quarter-million vehicles as part of the ''cash for clunkers'' program, shortly after it began.
 ''Social media for business now is life or death.'' Dan Simons, a restaurateur in the Washington area who closely monitors online forums. Local review sites, which allow customers to share their opinions, are reshaping the world of small business.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (88%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (68%); SOCIAL MEDIA (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (57%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



34 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 RUSSIA ACCUSES GEORGIA
 Of Inciting Violence
 The Russian Defense Ministry released a statement accusing Georgia of attempting to stoke violence in South Ossetia, and vowed to ''use all means and resources available to protect the citizens of the republic of South Ossetia and the Russian servicemen.'' PAGE 6 
 AN ODYSSEY AND A HOME
 Two dozen homeless men are building a ship to sail themselves around the world at the St. Lazarus Social Pension in Warsaw, in the yard of a former tractor factory. PAGE 4 
 HURDLES FOR RESTITUTION
 Twenty years after the collapse of the Iron Curtain, experts on restitution say that the countries of Eastern and Central Europe are still behind the curve in compensating for private property seized during the Holocaust. PAGE 6 
 3 HIKERS ARRESTED IN IRAN
 Efforts were under way to secure the release of three American hikers who were arrested by Iranian authorities after they crossed the country's border from the Kurdistan region of Iraq. The porous and mountainous border, a popular resort and hiking area, is also used by smugglers and Iranian Kurdish guerrillas opposed to Iran's government. PAGE 4
 National
 SCHOOL IS OUT, 
 But the Lessons Continue
 The president's daughters, Sasha and Malia Obama, have toured the Eiffel Tower and the Pantheon and swooned over the Jonas Brothers, but their parents have also made clear that summertime provides no respite from the rules. PAGE 12 
 WAGING A FIGHT FOR THE BAY
 A group of scientists are pooling resources and donning scuba gear to combat a kelp invading the San Francisco Bay, which edges out the native aquatic species competing for food, space and sunlight. PAGE 14 
 Metropolitan
 ATOMIC SHADOW IN SUBURBIA
 As the anniversaries of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki approach, some remember the atomic missiles that were stationed in the midst of New York's crowded suburbs and resorts. And while many sites have long since settled into very different uses, old and new issues still crop up. PAGE 1 
 A SAFE HAVEN FOR PLAY
 Every day for the past 33 summers, Hetty Fox has made sure that the cars are banished and the games are ready when the children scramble onto Lyman Place in the Bronx, a play street and the block where she, too, grew up. PAGE 1 
 Sports
 A BASEBALL CASTOFF 
 Goes Down in History
 A little more than a year ago, every major league team passed on the chance to sign DeWayne Wise. But after a spectacular catch to preserve Mark Buehrle's perfect game on July 23, his glove is in the Hall of Fame. PAGE 1
 WHEN YOUR SIBLING'S A STAR
 To be the sibling of an accomplished athlete can be a disorienting experience: you compete for recognition at home and cannot escape it in public. PAGE 1 
 Obituaries
 LYNN PRESSMAN RAYMOND, 97
 She created the Doctor Bag and the Nurse Bag, professional-looking medical kits with toy stethoscopes and syringes, which took some of the mystery out of medicine and became huge best sellers for the toy company she started with her husband. PAGE 20 
 DINA BABBITT, 86
 As a prisoner at the Auschwitz concentration camp, she bartered her services as a portrait painter to save herself and her mother, and spent the past several decades trying to retrieve her paintings from the Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and State Museum. PAGE 20
 Sunday Business
 A CREDIT CRISIS FAR AWAY IS STILL HITTING AFRICA
 African banks, with little invested in the global subprime market, were supposed to escape the credit crisis relatively unscathed. But as credit dried up, so did foreign investment projects, a turn that is hindering the continent in its efforts to shift from foreign aid to foreign investment. PAGE 1 
 INVESTORS WITHOUT A LIFELINE
 Raymond James Financial, one of the nation's last independent investment banks and brokerage firms, is holding out on buying back auction-rate securities, saying it would cost too much. That leaves its clients holding some $800 million in illiquid assets. PAGE 1 
 Arts & Leisure
 THE STOMACHS ARE FULL, AND THE MARRIAGES, TOO
 Could Nora Ephron have written and directed ''Julie & Julia,'' which celebrates marriage as gloriously fulfilling, if she hadn't found happiness herself after an infamously awful second marriage? PAGE 1 
 COUNTRY MUSIC'S NEW FACE
 Thanks to the pop crossover success of Taylor Swift, 19, and Carrie Underwood, 26, notions of where a country star might fit in are being rewritten almost daily. PAGE 1 
 Magazine
 OUT OF THE KITCHEN AND ONTO THE COUCH
 American cooking has become a spectator sport. Foodies order takeout and watch ''Top Chef'' instead of hitting the kitchen. How did that happen? And what have we lost along the way? PAGE 26
 THE EVOLVING ANNE HECHE
 The soap star, Hollywood lead, memoirist, Spaceship-awaiting Celestia, heterosexual, homosexual, heterosexual is playing it normal now. PAGE 20 
 MAKING AN IRAN POLICY
 A Times columnist, back from Tehran, gets inside the Obama administration's struggle with its biggest diplomatic challenge. PAGE 36 
 Do Daughters Need Superheroes? 9 
 Book Review
 STRANGERS IN THE LAND, AN INTERSECTION OF PEOPLE
 In his book about immigration, Islam and the West, ''Reflections on the Revolution in Europe,'' Christopher Caldwell, a journalist who writes for The New York Times Magazine and other publications, gives the subject a sustained and thoughtful treatment. PAGE 1 
 Travel
 A SECRET COLOMBIA PEAK
 Solitude at high altitudes is increasingly rare. Unlike congested climbing destinations like Kilimanjaro and Aconcagua, Ritacuba Blanco in Colombia's El Cocuy National Park is still mostly undiscovered. PAGE 11 
 Budapest on $250 or $1,000 a Day 9 
 36 Hours in Glasgow 10 
 Sunday Styles
 ALUMNI USE OLD SCHOOL TIES TO FIND NEW WORK
 For the unemployed, the standing advice about how to find work involves job fairs and reaching out to their e-mail address books. But a lesser-known avenue with the potential to be effective turns out to be the alma mater. PAGE 1 
 Leibovitz's Fuzzy Financial Picture 1 
 Putting Glamour on Horseback 1 
 Automobiles
 THE PUNCTUATION 
 At the End of the '50s
 The 1950s had to end sometime, and in Detroit the soaring tailfins of 1959 models put an exclamation point at the conclusion of an exuberant decade of unchecked optimism. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 9
 Week in Review
 THE LOBBYING WEB 
 Ensnares Health Care
 President Obama entered the White House challenging Washington's political culture, but his domestic agenda has set off a lobbying brawl involving the interests he derided in his Inaugural Address. The health care fight represents the biggest brawl of all. PAGE 1
 BOSTON'S CURSE RETURNS
 The Curse had run its course. Or that was the assumption in 2004, when the Red Sox won their first World Series since 1918. But last week, two of the series' Boston stars, Manny Ramirez and David Ortiz, were named in the endless steroid scandal. Two reporters for The Times, who wear rival caps on their days off, weigh in. PAGE 1 Editorial
 CURBING RUNAWAY INFLATION
 The skyrocketing cost of health care is driving up federal deficits, threatening to bankrupt Medicare, forcing employers to cut benefits and leaving workers with unaffordable bills. With this year's effort to reform health care, the Obama administration seems headed in the right direction to finally slow the rate of growth in health care spending. PAGE 7 
 Op-Ed 
 MAUREEN DOWD
 Some questions about food for Nora Ephron. Page 9
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
 A hike on the Pacific Crest Trail brings to mind what kids are missing out on these days. Page 10
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 The United States and Israel are having another one of those marital spats they have every now and then. Page 8
 FRANK RICH
 The country's demographics are changing quickly, and it will take more than beer to calm the panic it is causing among some whites. Page 8
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 A cluster of errors in The New York Times's coverage of Walter Cronkite's death shows how small individual missteps can add up to embarrassing trouble, damaging the newspaper's credibility. Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIKING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); ARRESTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); CHILDREN (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); SMUGGLING (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (69%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (69%); BASEBALL (66%); SCUBA DIVING (64%); SUBURBS (63%); HOMELESSNESS (56%)

PERSON: JOE JONAS (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); GEORGIA (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); POLAND (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



35 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Nickel and Dimed

BYLINE: By ROBERT FRANK. 
Robert Frank, an economist at Cornell University and a visiting professor at New York University's Stern School of Business, is the author of ''The Economic Naturalist's Field Guide.''

 BODY:
TO SERVE GOD AND WAL-MART
 The Making of Christian Free Enterprise
 By Bethany Moreton
 Illustrated. 372 pp. Harvard University Press. $27.95
 THE RETAIL REVOLUTION
 How Wal-Mart Created a Brave New World of Business
 By Nelson Lichtenstein
 311 pp. Metropolitan Books/Henry Holt & Company. $25
 Wal-Mart's founder, the Arkansas entrepreneur Sam Walton, was in many ways a classic illustration of Adam Smith's invisible hand in action. Seemingly from out of nowhere, his discount chain, propelled by ruthless cost-cutting, became the largest private company in the world. And without question, Walton's quest for profit made cheaper products available to hundreds of millions of consumers.
 It's no surprise, then, that Walton and his successors at Wal-Mart have been among the nation's most uncritically enthusiastic boosters of the invisible hand. Thus, as the University of Georgia historian Bethany Moreton notes in ''To Serve God and Wal-Mart,'' the company and the Walton Family Foundation have given tens of millions of dollars to conservative research groups like the Heritage Foundation to support educational outreach programs that tout the virtues of unfettered free markets. 
 But lower prices and more efficient distribution methods have not been the only consequences of Wal-Mart's explosive growth. Indeed, much of what we learn from Moreton's book, as well as from Nelson Lichtenstein's ''Retail Revolution,'' raises serious doubts about whether the corporation's influence has been positive on balance. But in the process of describing the downside of Wal-Mart, both authors offer penetrating insights into why the chain has been so phenomenally successful. 
 It is no mystery that consumers show up in record numbers when a retailer offers significantly lower prices. More puzzling, however, is how the notoriously stingy Wal-Mart has managed to attract so many dedicated workers. Anyone who has read Barbara Ehrenreich's description of her experiences as a Wal-Mart clerk in ''Nickel and Dimed'' or Steven Greenhouse's chronicle of Wal-Mart's widespread flouting of safety and hours regulations in ''The Big Squeeze'' might well wonder why anyone would even consider a job with the company. Yet as Wal-Mart spokesmen never tire of pointing out, the chain routinely receives scores of applications for every opening it posts. Moreton offers a gracefully written and meticulously researched account of why people not only have been willing to work for the company, but often have also developed fierce loyalty to it.
 It is no accident, she argues, that Wal-Mart emerged in the Ozarks, a stronghold of fundamentalist Christianity that was one of the last regions of the American economy to shift from farming to other pursuits. Many farm women actually preferred the part-time jobs with flexible hours that Wal-Mart offered, even though such jobs were exempt from many regulations. Many of these women, after all, were still trying to help their husbands eke out a living on their farms, and flexible work made it easier for them to care for their children.
 Economists have long recognized the attractions of flexible working arrangements to some segments of the labor force. But Moreton also offers more novel observations about the lure of Wal-Mart. She explains, for example, how the company invoked the fundamentalist Christian teachings embraced by many of its employees to fashion a working environment that induced them to work contentedly for low wages and paltry benefits. 
 Sam Walton was not a fundamentalist Christian. He and his wife, Helen, worshipped at a liberal branch of the Presbyterian Church, and Mrs. Walton was even an early abortion rights advocate. But Moreton argues that Walton and his fellow executives quickly recognized the economic advantage of weaving specific strands of the Ozark region's fundamentalist belief system into their corporate strategy. 
 At the heart of that strategy was the company's emphasis on the Christian concept of ''servant leadership.'' In other parts of the retail sector, the servitude demanded of retail clerks was typically experienced as demeaning. But by repeatedly reminding employees that the Christian servant leader cherishes opportunities to provide cheerful service to others, Moreton argues, Wal-Mart transformed servitude from a negative job characteristic into a positive one. 
 Another cultural strand in Moreton's account is the company's policy of reproducing the social relationships characteristic of fundamentalist Christian households in the workplace. To this end, Wal-Mart needed a legal pretext for hiring mostly men as managers and mostly women as clerks. The solution was to move managers to new store locations frequently, a condition of employment that men would generally accept but most women would not. 
 But even though the managerial jobs paid better and offered more opportunities for promotion, there was still a problem for male employees. The highly regimented, rule-driven jobs at Wal-Mart were a pale substitute for the independent farmer's role from which the company's Ozark male managers had recently been driven. Rather than cede greater control to managers, Moreton argues, the company salved the egos of the men by celebrating a patriarchal ideal of ''Christian manliness.'' The women, for their part, were only too happy to adopt the prescribed submissive role.
 While Moreton's book answers important questions about why workers have been willing to accept Wal-Mart's austere compensation package, Lichtenstein's sheds valuable light on the technological reasons for the company's success. His detailed account of the company's early prowess in exploiting bar-code scanning and satellite technology helps explain how Wal-Mart revolutionized the way distribution channels are organized. 
 ichtenstein, a professor of history at the University of California, Santa Barbara, also provides a detailed look at the dark side of the company's employment practices. From its ruthless efforts at union-busting to its determination to overcome basic safety and hours regulation to its widespread employment of sweatshop subcontractors in China, Wal-Mart has consistently maintained that no one has the right to limit the corporation's freedom to act as it pleases. 
 The recent market meltdown, however, has led to increased skepticism about the efficacy of Adam Smith's invisible hand. And the more we learn, the clearer it becomes that market outcomes are often far from perfect. Smith's theories are especially likely to break down when the goals people are trying to achieve depend, in varying degrees, on the amounts they spend relative to others. 
 Most parents, for example, want to send their children to a good school, but a good school is a relative concept. Only half of all schools at any moment can be in the top half. Because there is a strong link between house prices in a neighborhood and the quality of its schools, people cannot send their children to good schools if they spend less than others on housing. Families thus feel pressure to take whatever steps they can to buy a house in a good school district. 
 One option is to work longer hours. Another is to accept a job that entails greater safety risks. But if everyone works longer hours or accepts greater risks to buy houses in the better school districts, the only effect is to bid up the prices of those houses. As in the familiar sports stadium metaphor, all stand to get a better view simply to discover that no one ends up seeing any better.
 That's why we have labor regulations. And as Lichtenstein argues, Wal-Mart may have done more than any other American institution to undermine those regulations. Sam Walton and his successors were no doubt driven by a sincere belief in the magic of the invisible hand. But their sincerity has done nothing to mitigate the damage they've caused. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sam Walton at a Wal-Mart managers' meeting in Little Rock, 1984. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); RETAILERS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (74%); HISTORY (73%); CONSERVATISM (73%); RELIGION (73%); FLEXTIME (72%); WRITERS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (97%); HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (56%); THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (97%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (97%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) ARKANSAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: To Serve God and Wal-Mart (Book); Retail Revolution, The (Book); To Serve God and Wal-Mart (Book); Retail Revolution, The (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



36 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: Rah, Rah, Resume!

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

 BODY:
THE last time Miriam Korn Haimes used Syracuse University's career services, she was a kid. Twenty-one? Twenty-two, maybe? 
 When you're the Class of '76, that's ancient history. The bachelor's degree nestles at the bottom of a rich resume filled with professional benchmarks, including a 23-year career at JPMorgan Chase, topped by the title of senior vice president.
 ''I hadn't kept up with the university at all,'' said Ms. Haimes, of Montclair, N.J. ''It was so long ago.''
 Until this spring, when Ms. Haimes's department was relocated to Columbus, Ohio, and she found herself unemployed. 
 In the new world order of job searches, networking is everything, so she gamely dusted off her 33-year-old Syracuse affiliation. Armed with her business card and her 60-second ''I'm in transition'' speech, she went recently to a cocktail party for alumni. There, another Orangewoman gave her a tip: the university's career center is not just for undergraduates but for older alumni, too.
 Syracuse counselors have since critiqued Ms. Haimes's resume, helped tweak her job search and offered to connect her with graduates in related fields. ''It's all free,'' said Ms. Haimes, in wonderment. ''No one's asked for a donation. But if I get a job, I'll give them a large one.''
 For the unemployed, the standing advice about how to find work involves doggedly attending job fairs and reaching out to everyone in your e-mail address book. But increasingly, a lesser-known avenue with the potential to be effective, thanks to the emotional bonds formed during undergraduate years, turns out to be the alma mater.
 In the last year, as the recession and a 9.5 percent unemployment rate have slowed the economy, schools have been amending their pitches to older graduates. Typically, undergraduate institutions offer standard-fare golf tournaments and wine-tasting reunions -- hoping to tap nostalgia and shake loose donations. Now, they are providing an expanding array of career services, including panels of alumni experts, professional affinity networks, personal coaching and job listings, support that is becoming a fixture of business and law programs. Old school ties, they suggest, can have new currency, even urgency.
 Magnanimous, yes; selfless, no. Career guidance for older alumni can benefit schools as well. It freshens loyalties that may have been mothballed for decades.
 ''If we're understanding toward alumni, they'll be grateful and invest in their alma mater,'' said Laura Denbow, executive director of Bucknell's alumni relations and career services office. ''Alumni support is not only financial in nature. It's providing access to their organizations and their expertise. Sometimes, that can be more valuable.'' 
 The programs may come through an alumni office, a career center or a service linking both. In September, Bucknell sent an e-mail message to 47 alumni at the collapsing Lehman Brothers, offering the support of the school's career counseling services, a network of 600 alumni in financial professions and a job database. In April, Middlebury College assembled an evening panel in downtown Manhattan -- ''Career Advice for Tough Times on Wall Street'' -- featuring graduates at Goldman Sachs and the Blackstone Group, as well as a career services representative from the college. 
 IN May, Notre Dame started face-to-face events and a coordinated Web site for undergraduate and graduate-school alumni, with links to professional networks, a career counseling hot line, job listings and a vast alumni database. Throughout the year, Lehigh presented job-skills Web seminars, usually at a lunchtime hour. The New York City alumni association of Howard University is planning career transition seminars. Northwestern is designing panels on midcareer advice and recession-era lifestyle adjustments this year. 
 In a world upended by deep recession, these programs are examples of what goes around, comes around. When Ellen Barresi, Notre Dame '93, was a division chief financial officer in New York City, she would post openings for her own teams on Notre Dame job boards. Recently unemployed, she now peruses those same listings. When she lands interviews at corporations, she checks for alumni who may work there.
 ''If you find someone who can tell you something about the company, that can give you an edge,'' she said. ''And that can be through school ties.''
 Not that donations, as a byproduct of such efforts, would be frowned upon. For 18 years, David Monson, Lehigh '90, had worked for a national car rental agency, rising to regional sales director. In February, he lost his job when his company downsized. He had not been an especially generous alumnus. But scrambling for connections, Mr. Monson, a father of two young children, called his alma mater. He was stunned. ''They said, right from the get-go, 'We'd love to help you out,' '' he said. 
 Mr. Monson had been moping around the house in sweatpants. The counselor set him up with instructional Web seminars and an action plan. Every few weeks, ''She would call to see that I was on target,'' he said. Two weeks ago, he started a new job as a vice president for a specialty shipping company. '' I'll be looser with the wrist in terms of writing that alumni check,'' he said.
 The notion of helping out older alumni is spreading. In June, Lori Kennedy, whose wonderfully euphemistic title at Lehigh is ''director of alumni career solutions,'' gave a Web seminar for 40 schools about setting up such programs. In 2002, following the employment downturn after the 9/11 attacks and the dot-com bust, Lehigh realized that its career counselors, trained to help new graduates, couldn't meet the needs of midcareer professionals. It created an extensive online and personalized career service for all graduates. ''Last year we served 2,000 alumni,'' Ms. Kennedy said. ''This year it was 4,000.'' 
 Working with older alumni requires understanding their particular psychological challenges. Worried about their children and legacy issues, these graduates have ''the sort of burdens and responsibilities that an 18-year-old may not think of,'' said Ms. Denbow of Bucknell. ''They worked so hard to get where they are and when that organization fails them, they have a lot of anger. They're asking, 'Do I want to go on in that rat race?' ''
 Web seminars, or Webinars, have become increasingly popular with older alumni, not least because they can provide polite, anonymous cover for those who may feel abashed about seeking help through an institution that was a hallmark of their distant youth.
 And so thousands of alumni, their undergraduate years a dim memory, are dialing in for refresher courses. Advanced-level Resume Writing. Informational Interviews. And that required course for the middle-aged: Navigating Social Networking Sites.
 In one such Webinar, a tidbit of old-school relief came to Kitty Boynton, Cornell '76. For 18 years, she had worked as a career counselor in the police department in Orlando, Fla. Two years ago, she quit to become a life coach for private clients. The economy sucker-punched that dream. Last month, she attended a Webinar on networking techniques, joined by Cornellians whose graduating years ranged from 1964 to 2010.
 ''I'm a troglodyte when it comes to technology,'' Ms. Boynton said. ''I assumed that after making contact with someone, I'd be expected to communicate through e-mail or a social media. But the instructor said that an e-mail is when you care enough to send the very least. A good old-fashioned handwritten thank-you note is still the best. O.K.! I thought I'd have to learn to Twitter or something.''
 ON occasion, the alma mater inadvertently offers a sip at the fountain of youth. Chuck Megivern graduated from Lehigh as an electrical engineer with a pocket protector and slide rule in 1974, when rowdier graduates were listening to the Doobie Brothers and Kiss. He spent his entire career at a Fortune 500 technology company, eventually at its plant in Burlington, Vt. Two years ago, Mr. Megivern began worrying about layoffs -- just about the time his youngest child was accepted to Lehigh.
 On the school's Web site, he spotted the alumni career services program. Methodically, he worked his way through the online seminars. Over the phone, Ms. Kennedy gave him additional counseling. Last fall, a Burlington start-up, Dealer.com, was seeking a software developer. He opened Ms. Kennedy's handout. ''Page 30,'' Mr. Megivern said. '' 'Interview Skills.' ''
 Then, salary negotiations. ''I kept making emergency calls to Lori,'' Mr. Megivern said. ''She would say, 'Consider this factor, consider that one.' ''
 He started the new job in March. In a sense, he has come full circle, living something of the free-spirited life envisioned by many of his generation. The company has bean bag chairs in the conference room, a gym and a cafeteria with organic food. He bikes to work.
 In June, 35 years after graduating from Lehigh, Mr. Megivern attended his first college reunion there. ''I gave Lehigh a little money, too,'' he said. ''Not enough to name a building after me.''
 But, Mr. Megivern noted, ''They are getting a much larger amount as well -- my daughter's tuition.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about older alumni who have been helped by university career counselors referred imprecisely to David Munson, a 1990 graduate of Lehigh University. Mr. Munson, who lost a job in February when his company was downsized, was speaking generally-- not about himself specifically -- when he said that newly unemployed people sometimes mope around the house in sweatpants. 
An article on Aug. 2 about older alumni who have been helped by university career counselors referred imprecisely to comments by a 1990 graduate of Lehigh University who lost his job in February when his company was downsized, and a correction in this space last Sunday misspelled his surname. As the article correctly noted, he is David Monson, not Munson, and he was speaking generally -- not about himself -- when he said that newly unemployed people sometimes mope around the house in sweatpants.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW COURSE: Chuck Megivern, above right, a '74 Lehigh graduate, used the school's alumni career services to get a job at Dealer.com, where he sat with Matt Storer. At right, Lori Kennedy, Lehigh's director of alumni career solutions. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CALEB KENNA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 C. SHANE SANTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY SERGIO RUZZIER) (ST1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ALUMNI (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); GOLF (71%); TOURNAMENTS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); RELOCATIONS (69%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (93%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (73%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (56%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



37 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Formerly a Couple, Now Frequently a Team

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
PHILIP GLASS was 15 minutes late, and JoAnne Akalaitis, his ex-wife and frequent collaborator, was impatient.
 She had to get back to that afternoon's rehearsal for ''The Bacchae,'' the second production of the Shakespeare in the Park season, for which Mr. Glass wrote the music. The time for a joint interview was limited.
 ''I'm going to call Philip,'' Ms. Akalaitis said, pulling out her cellphone and leaving Mr. Glass a message.
 But when he arrived a few minutes later, blaming a packed schedule, Ms. Akalaitis rebuked him only momentarily, then let it slide. After all, she and Mr. Glass, both 72, have known each other too long to let little things get in the way of a productive collaboration. 
 Mr. Glass, now a celebrated composer, and Ms. Akalaitis, a seasoned director and former artistic director of the Public Theater, which produces Shakespeare in the Park, have been working together for more than 40 years, for 15 of which they were also married. Their collaborations include an opera based on Kafka's ''In the Penal Colony''; a production of Jean Genet's ''Screens,'' with music by Mr. Glass and the Gambian composer Foday Musa Suso; several productions of Beckett plays, including a controversial staging of ''Endgame'' at the American Repertory Theater in 1984; and numerous productions in the 1970s and 1980s with Mabou Mines, a company that Ms. Akalaitis and Mr. Glass founded with three friends. 
 ''When people say, 'Oh, I admire you so much,' I say, 'You know, I think it's just practical,' '' Ms. Akalaitis said of their continuing collaboration after divorcing in 1980. 
 Mr. Glass agreed. ''We had work to do together, and we had children to raise together,'' he said, referring to their daughter, Juliet, and their son, Zachary. ''I don't remember a period when we were not in touch with each other's work.''
 The couple's early years together were spent absorbing and then creating experimental theater in Paris and New York. They got together in the early 1960s. In 1964 they moved to Paris, where Mr. Glass studied composition, and together they took in plays by Beckett, Genet and Brecht. In 1965 they married.
 ''We did a quasi pilgrimage to East Germany to see the Berliner Ensemble,'' Mr. Glass said, referring to the theater company Brecht founded. At other times, he recalled, they would hitchhike to London and wait in line overnight for tickets to see, for example, Laurence Olivier in ''The Master Builder'' or ''Othello.''
 In 1970 they returned to New York and, with Lee Breuer, Ruth Maleczech and David Warrilow, started Mabou Mines, named after a village in Nova Scotia near which they had a summer house. Mr. Breuer and Ms. Maleczech were also a couple, and for a while the five adults, and their children, lived together in an apartment in Chelsea that they rented for $75 a month.
 ''The only life that seemed worthwhile for us was a life in the arts,'' Mr. Glass said. ''We never thought about how we would make a living.''
 Mr. Glass's compositions for Mabou Mines included the important early vocal works ''Red Horse Animation'' and ''Music for Voices.'' 
 ''When I was a student at Juilliard,'' he said, ''I asked myself, 'Who wants my music? Who am I writing for?' And I found dancers, theater companies, independent film people -- a lot of people wanted music.'' He added: ''I didn't want to be writing for posterity or for someone uptown who I didn't know. I wanted the music to be used.''
 Ms. Akalaitis added that as a practical man of theater, Mr. Glass was not touchy about her cutting music if it didn't work. ''He doesn't think he's Mozart or Beethoven or anything like that,'' she said. ''You ask him to change something, he changes it.''
 Creating for the theater is ''like making a soup: you don't know how it's going to end up,'' Mr. Glass said. You add ''this and that, and you have to see how it goes.''
 As for how this particular collaboration came about, Ms. Akalaitis said that she had long wanted to direct ''The Bacchae,'' a tragedy by Euripides that is partly about human powerlessness in the face of irrational gods. In the play, the god Dionysus has lured scores of women from Thebes to abandon their families and worship him in the hills. The king of Thebes, Pentheus, refuses to acknowledge Dionysus' power and in the end is violently punished.
 ''It's a play that sort of defies rationality and defies explanation,'' Ms. Akalaitis said. ''I knew I wanted to do it with one person -- with Philip -- because I think his music is right for it.''
 Mr. Glass said he was surprised by ''the passion and the earthiness'' of the play. ''It's almost like it makes sense in your body'' and not in your head, he said. ''You feel that it makes sense, and then you have to figure out what it means.''
 Ms. Akalaitis's return to the Public Theater is something of a landmark. If she and Mr. Glass were able to get through a divorce with no lasting hard feelings, the same cannot be said of her relationship to the theater, from which she was fired in 1993 after having succeeded its founder, Joseph Papp, as artistic director less than two years earlier. The board said at the time that Ms. Akalaitis was not an effective producer and that the theater had lost energy and momentum since Papp's death. Her defenders noted that she presided over the theater during an economic downturn, and that Papp had undermined her in his succession plan by dividing power between her and a separate producing director.
 Asked how it felt to return, Ms. Akalaitis said curtly, ''It's great.'' Asked about a comment she made a decade ago about avoiding even walking past the theater on Lafayette Street, she said, referring to the Public's current artistic director, Oskar Eustis, ''Now that Oskar's here, it's different.''
 Mr. Eustis said, ''From the moment that I got the job it was clear to me that one of the tasks that I had was to bring JoAnne back to the Public.'' They discussed several possible projects, he said, but as soon as she suggested ''The Bacchae,'' ''I jumped at it,'' since he had wanted to try doing Greek plays in Central Park. Performances are scheduled to begin on Aug. 11.
 ''It's free. It's outdoors,'' he said. ''It's really a perfect laboratory to see if we can capture some of what is so extraordinary about Greek drama.''
 Which is not, one should note, its cheerfulness. ''You leave these Greek plays disturbed,'' Ms. Akalaitis acknowledged. ''You feel like you're getting a divorce every day when you walk away from rehearsal.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, actors in rehearsal for a coming production of ''The Bacchae'' in Central Park. Left, JoAnne Akalaitis and Philip Glass at the Public Theater. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 NELLA VERA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSIC (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); OPERA (79%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (66%) NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (85%) CANADA (86%); UNITED STATES (85%); GERMANY (71%); FRANCE (66%)

TITLE: Bacchae, The (Play); Bacchae, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



38 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: A Watchdog Group Is Born

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FEW businesses have trust issues as daunting as those now faced by mortgage lenders; now a new nonprofit group is working to change public perception of the industry. 
 The Fair Mortgage Collaborative, a consortium of lenders, brokers and mortgage technology providers, made its debut in June with financial backing from the Ford Foundation, among other groups. Its purpose, the organizers say, is to make only those loans in a borrower's best interest and to identify and certify the lenders that adhere to certain strict standards. 
 The group, based in Washington, currently has eight members, including the online broker Mortgage Grader and Neighborhood Housing Services, which provides debt counseling and loan referrals. The eight have connections with roughly 300 lenders, according to Howard Banker, the collaborative's executive director, and they must ensure that the lenders are suitable for borrowers. 
 Mr. Banker says he expects to have at least 35 members by the end of the year.
 The group has not yet gained the participation of the four major lenders -- JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup -- though organizers say it has had preliminary discussions with them. 
 Terry Francisco, a spokesman for Bank of America, said his company was familiar with the collaborative and intended to investigate its certification process. ''We have not had time,'' he said. 
 Despite the lack of participation from the big lenders, Mr. Banker says there will be plenty of loan options available, and they will be safer than in the past. 
 He says members must submit to audits and ongoing monitoring by his staff to ensure they abide by the organization's rules. Among the rules is one requiring that borrowers first be considered for 30-year fixed-rate mortgages. If they don't qualify for those loans, others could be offered, but there must be ''clear, verifiable benefits for the applicants,'' Mr. Banker said. 
 Offering adjustable-rate mortgages -- which could, for instance, raise monthly payments to more than 45 percent of a borrower's monthly income -- would raise a flag.
 If after an audit the collaborative found that a lender had shown a pattern of offering those riskier loans to borrowers who could qualify for less expensive products, Mr. Banker said the lender would most likely be ousted from the organization.
 ''The goal,'' he said, ''is to not allow another wave of cheap money to drive consumers into the ground.''
 Brad Strothkamp, an analyst with Forrester Research, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass., said the collaborative would probably help borrowers. ''The concept is great,'' he said. ''If this organization can help point consumers in the direction of lenders who have their best interests at heart, that is not only something consumers would get behind, but also the government.''
 Mr. Strothkamp said he would be wary if, for instance, the collaborative's members banned interest-only loans. ''They are actually decent products when the consumer is properly educated and responsible,'' he said.
 Mr. Banker said interest-only mortgages were not barred. But stated-income mortgages, for which prospective borrowers need not document income, will be barred even though such loans could benefit a small subset.
 Lenders have generally stopped offering these loans, but Mr. Banker says there is a chance of their once again coming into vogue as the crisis ends and lending standards loosen.
 Jeff Lazerson, the chief executive of Mortgage Grader, said his company had pledged to work on the borrower's behalf since its inception last year. But before the collaborative, ''there's been nothing in the mortgage world that provided consumers with a way to know that these people are safe to deal with,'' he said. 
 ''So the first question out of a borrower's mouth should be 'Are you certified -- and if not, why not?' ''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Rates shown are for the New York region.
 Rates on most adjustable mortgages are set 2 or 3 percentage points above this index.(Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ONLINE TRADING (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); WELLS FARGO & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); WFC (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



39 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; METRICS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: For the Unemployed, the Day Stacks Up Differently

BYLINE: By AMANDA COX, KEVIN QUEALY and AMY SCHOENFELD

 BODY:
Nearly 1 in 10 members of the American work force are unemployed -- a level not seen in 27 years. 
 Without a paying job, these Americans have picked up other forms of labor: vacuuming the house, sending out resumes, taking classes and caring for family. And the unemployed have more time for leisure and socializing.
 Sunday Business analyzed new data from the American Time Use Survey to compare the 2008 weekday activities of the employed and unemployed. The comparison may seem obvious, but differences in time spent by these two groups can be striking.
 On an average weekday, the unemployed sleep an hour more than their employed peers. They tidy the house, do laundry and yard work for more than two hours, twice as much as the employed. The unemployed also spend an extra hour in the classroom and an additional 70 minutes in front of the television.
 The annual time use survey, which asks thousands of residents to recall every minute of a single day, is important to economists trying to value the time spent by those not bringing home a paycheck.
 ''If all we were doing is substituting production at home for production in the marketplace,'' said Daniel S. Hamermesh, an economics professor at the University of Texas at Austin, ''then maybe unemployment wouldn't be so bad.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: How employed people spend their day
How unemployed people spend their day
These charts show the weekday activities for 4,300 people who told the Bureau of Labor Statistics how they spent their time during a 24-hour period in 2008. Nearly 300 of these people identified themselves as unemployed and looking for work or recently laid off.(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Andreas Mueller, Stockholm University) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



40 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1883 words

HEADLINE: Just When Africa's Luck Was Changing

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

DATELINE: KIGALI, RWANDA 

 BODY:
 TWO years ago, when Dubai World said it would invest $230 million in Rwandan tourism, officials here rejoiced.
 Among the many projects the company trumpeted were a sprawling luxury hotel on the 18-hole golf course here and an ecolodge in the Akagera National Park, a swampy grassland further northeast where herds of elephants and water buffalo roam.
 In an interview at his offices in Kigali last fall, Rwanda's president, Paul Kagame, cited the Dubai investment as one of many that his small east African country had managed to attract in its effort to reduce its dependence on aid in favor of private investments.
 But just last month, Dubai World ratcheted back its ambitious investment plans, its coffers strained by the global financial crisis. The company says it will go forward with only two of the eight projects it had planned in Rwanda, and the Kigali hotel and Akagera ecolodge didn't make the cut. 
 ''The scaling back of foreign investments like Dubai World certainly impacts the things that the government of Rwanda wants to do in terms of raising the standards of living for all Rwandans,'' said Clare Akamanzi, an executive with the Rwanda Development Board. ''It was a major deal for us because tourism is a big part of our economy, and investments in that sector are what we need.''
 When the credit crisis erupted in September, many experts thought that Africa would be spared the financial turmoil of the American and European financial systems, because African banks had almost none of their assets tied up in the global subprime market.
 But it has recently become clear that Africa is being hit hard. The World Bank estimates that its economies will grow an average of 3 percent this year, compared with an annual average of 6 percent from 2004 to 2008.
 ''The crisis could not have come at a worse time,'' said Jose Gijon, chief Africa economist at the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, based in Paris. ''Before the meltdown, many African countries had made significant progress in attracting foreign investment and private capital, and this could derail those efforts.'' 
 Many investment projects have either been delayed or canceled as credit has dried up, according to the African Development Bank. A project in Tunisia between British Gas and ETAP, the Tunisian national oil company, fell apart because the financing did not materialize. And Congo, which expected $2.4 billion in foreign investment this year, now anticipates about $600 million.
 Continentwide figures for foreign direct investment so far this year are not available. But in the sub-Saharan African countries, the International Monetary Fund estimates, foreign direct investment will drop roughly 18 percent in 2009 from about $30 billion in 2008. 
 ''The decline in investment will reduce the ability of African governments to fund health, education, infrastructure and nutrition programs,'' said Leonce Ndikumana, director of the development research department at the African Development Bank.
 Organizations like the development bank have stepped up their efforts to limit the impact of the credit crisis. But many fear that the moves will not be enough. The World Bank said recently that international financial institutions by themselves could not currently cover the shortfall in capital and investments to emerging-market countries.
 According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the amount of private investment going to Africa had begun to outpace aid. M. Nathaniel Barnes, Liberia's ambassador to the United States and the country's former finance minister, says that while foreign aid is still crucial for African countries, it usually focuses on humanitarian issues like emergency food and shelter or medical supplies. In contrast, he said, foreign investment provides long-term sustainability and growth.
 ''Instead of talking to Usaid, I'd rather be talking to a company like Nike,'' Mr. Barnes said. ''Having a partner like that means jobs and economic growth, and you just don't get that from aid.''
 Not everyone sees foreign investment as the way to solve the many problems facing African countries. While acknowledging that foreign direct investments have contributed to sustained growth, Emira Woods, a native of Liberia and co-director of Foreign Policy in Focus, a publication at the Institute for Policy Studies in Washington, says the benefits do not always trickle down to the local populations. She notes that significant numbers of people are still trapped in poverty in countries like Nigeria and Angola, two of the top recipients of investments. 
 Most of the foreign direct investment in those countries is in ''extractive industries'' like oil, gas, or metals, she says, rather than in infrastructure. ''Minerals and goods are put on a ship or plane and sent out of the country so the people there don't really benefit,'' she said.
 ''It's hard to find good examples where foreign direct investment is leading to real concrete development.''
 PRIVATE investors were just starting to take notice of the economically poor but resource-rich continent when the global financial crisis hit.
 In 2007, more than $53 billion in foreign direct investments flowed into Africa, up from $9 billion in 2000, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. The estimate for 2008 is more than $72 billion. And according to a United Nations report, investments in Africa had the highest rate of return of all developing regions in 2006 and 2007.
 ''For the most part, these are new markets that need everything, and there is little or no competition,'' said Bruce J. Wrobel, the president of Sithe Global, an energy company that is based in New York and controlled by the Blackstone Group. 
 Sithe and the Aga Khan Group, a private international development organization, have joined to build a huge hydroelectric dam in Jinja, Uganda, which is expected to cost $860 million. The project is one of the largest infrastructure projects in Africa. It's also one of the largest private foreign investments on the continent. Uganda's government is counting on it to help it address an energy shortage that has stifled development in this country, where rolling blackouts are a recurring nuisance.
 Projects like the dam provide a perfect example of why private investment is needed in African countries, says Mr. Barnes, the Liberian official. Not only do they hire people to do construction work, they also help to create hundreds of other jobs as new service businesses spring up.
 For instance, during a recent noon break in Jinja, workers hurried over to small stores -- in many cases, hastily made wooden structures owned by local merchants -- for sandwiches, drinks, even phone cards.
 Before work on the dam began two years ago, Jinja was known primarily for the nearby Bujagali Falls, a series of thundering white-water rapids that attracts rafters from around the world. 
 Many residents near the dam site made their living just as their ancestors did, by raising goats and cattle or fishing for Nile perch, which can grow as long as six feet, and tilapia. They are two of the more than 200 species of fish in the river. 
 Some had small farms, growing matoke -- a small green banana -- or corn, avocados and mangos. 
 Now 1,000 people from Jinja and surrounding areas have been hired to work at the dam site in various jobs. Some do basic construction work -- like crushing stones from the river bottom into cement; others are drivers, cultural liaisons and lower-level managers. 
 Many of the top officials on the project, like Kenneth Keheru, deputy construction manager, are native Ugandans.
 ''What's also good about projects like this is they provide local workers with the necessary skills,'' Mr. Keheru says. ''So when others begin to invest, they don't have to train a work force. There is already one in place.''
 And even some people who were forced to relocate say they have benefited from new housing and water supplies and better schools and health facilities. For instance, some locals who previously lived in mud huts have moved into sturdy cinderblock homes.
 When it is finished, the dam will provide some much-needed power to a country where only 5 percent of homes have access to electricity.
 The project has generated some opposition. Frank Muramuzi, executive director of the National Association of Professional Environmentalists, a local environmental group, says the dam will not provide electricity to a vast majority of Ugandans and will be a further drain on Lake Victoria, which feeds the Nile and where water levels have dropped in recent years. (Bujugali Falls will be flooded and turned into a reservoir. Rafting and other businesses will be relocated further down the river, to Kalagala Falls.)
 ''The people of Uganda lose out,'' Mr. Muramuzi said.
 DESPITE the economic gloom, some investors remain optimistic about Africa. 
 Emerging Capital Partners, a private equity firm based in Washington, announced last week that it was spending more than $26 million to buy controlling stakes in two North African construction companies. In the spring, it bought a minority stake in a Moroccan outsourcing and call-center company and invested $47 million in an insurance company based in Ivory Coast. Over all, the company has $1.6 billion invested across the continent.
 ''We still think the investment climate in Africa is good,'' said Thomas R. Gibian, the firm's chief executive. ''We're looking long term, and the financial crisis has not deterred us from good investments.''
 According to Africa Investor magazine, $12.8 billion in foreign investment flowed into Africa in February and March, even as the financial crisis worsened. 
 China, which has become a major investor and trading partner for Africa, continues to invest. The China-Africa Development Fund, which has invested nearly $400 million in projects in Africa, said it planned to raise an additional $2 billion by November. African groups are also continuing to pump money into projects ranging from telecommunications to new oil fields.
 The Chinese investments, as well as the bullish attitude of American private equity investors like Mr. Gibian and Mr. Wrobel, give many on the continent hope that it will endure the financial crisis and perhaps be in a better position to attract foreign investments when global markets recover. 
 ''There is still a growing appetite for good investments,'' said Hubert Danso, the founder and vice chairman of Africa Investor, an international trade and development firm in Johannesburg. ''Africa is still open for business.''
 MR. KAGAME and his team continue to aggressively court investors and have met with some success. In May, officials were the hosts of a two-day conference here to showcase investment opportunities in real estate and construction. It attracted 354 investors, and two have already committed to deals.
 Also in recent months, ContourGlobal, a company based in New York, announced that it was building a $325 million methane extraction plant on Lake Kivu. And Starbucks opened a farmer support center in Kigali. 
 ''We need to encourage private investment,'' Mr. Kagame said. ''In the end, that's what going to decide our future.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A huge dam being built in Uganda represents one of the largest private foreign investments in Africa. But the global crisis is hurting other projects.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VANESSA VICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
 President Paul Kagame of Rwanda at a Starbucks shareholder meeting in 2007. Rwanda is trying to shift from foreign aid to foreign investment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(BU4) CHART: Investment in Africa: Foreign investment in Africa soared as demand and prices for commodities like oil and metals rose. But numbers for 2009 are expected to reflect the global recession.(Source: U.N. Conference on Trade and Development)(BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); GOLF (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); INWARD INVESTMENT (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (65%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (60%); NUTRITION (50%)

COMPANY: BRITISH GAS (62%); AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK GROUP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (62%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (97%); RWANDA (96%); TUNISIA (92%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UGANDA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



41 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CROSSROADS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: You: The Updated Owner's Manual

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SALETAN. 
William Saletan writes the Human Nature column for Slate and is the author of ''Bearing Right: How Conservatives Won the Abortion War.''

 BODY:
This is the first in a series of essays that will appear during the next several months. Each essayist will explore the dominant themes and currents of thought in a particular area of American life.
 The most powerful revolutions of our age aren't happening in Washington, the Muslim world or the global economy. They're happening in science and technology. At a pace our ancestors couldn't have imagined, we're decoding, replicating and transforming the human body. These revolutions are changing how we live, what we think and who we are. 
 Bodies used to be unalterably separate. Yours was yours; mine was mine. That isn't true anymore. Organ transplantation has made human parts interchangeable. Thanks to aging and obesity, global demand for kidneys and liver tissue is increasing. Meanwhile, anti-rejection drugs and other innovations have turned more and more of us into potential donors. But supply isn't keeping up with demand, so doctors, patients and governments are becoming more aggressive. Death is being declared more quickly so organs can be harvested. Rich people are buying kidneys from poor people. Governments are trying financial inducements to encourage donation. The latest proposals, outlined in Sally Satel's ''When Altruism Isn't Enough: The Case for Compensating Kidney Donors'' (2008), include tax credits, tuition vouchers and cash. As pressure grows from the left through socialized medicine, and from the right through free markets, organs will increasingly be treated either as a commodity or as a community resource.
 If we can't get enough replacement parts from one another, maybe we can build them. Americans already replace one million knees, hips, shoulders and ankles each year. Two million people worldwide have implants that monitor and regulate their heartbeats. Artificial arms can translate brain signals directly into complex movements; implanted defibrillators now come with software updates. As Michael S. Gazzaniga explains in ''Human: The Science Behind What Makes Us Unique'' (2008), we're also invading the head with cochlear implants, artificial retinas and brain-computer interfaces.
 But this trend, too, raises questions: How should we treat these combinations of people and property? Hundreds of thousands of people have defibrillator wires in their chests that were recently recalled because of a hazardous defect. If we can't safely extract such devices, should we stop doctors from putting them in? Who's responsible for replacing the batteries when they run low? Defibrillators can be hacked; will that become a new method of killing? And what about voluntary death? A life-support machine at your bedside is distinct from you. But an implant? Will your spouse or doctor be prosecuted for turning it off?
 Beyond transplantation and mechanization looms the broader question of longevity. Over the last half-century, the age a 65-year-old American could expect to reach has increased by one year per decade. In 1960, it was 79. Today, it's 84. Life expectancy at birth has passed 78 in the United States and 83 in Japan. We have no idea where these trends will end. It's been just six years since we decoded the first human genome and less than two years since we learned how to make adult cells embryonic.
 The cost of caring for old people will be enormous, but that's just the beginning. We're fixing and replacing worn-out body parts for older and older patients. How much life do we owe them?
 The long-run solution, outlined by Robert N. Butler in ''The Longevity Revolution'' (2008), is to treat longer life as a resource, not just a goal. That means exploiting its benefits, like wisdom and equanimity, while focusing medicine and lifestyle changes on extending health and productivity rather than dragging out the last bedridden months. 
 While life is being extended, so is fertility. Women are increasingly devoting their 20s to education and careers, pushing marriage and motherhood into their 30s and 40s. About a quarter of a million babies worldwide are born each year through assisted reproduction, and nearly half of these procedures are done on women over 35. In ''Everything Conceivable'' (2007), Liza Mundy explains that the fertility industry doesn't just bail out couples who have delayed parenthood. It encourages such delays by ''persuading women that they can safely wait.''
 We certainly are waiting. From 1980 to 2007, the United States birth rate declined among women in their 20s but increased by 61 percent among women ages 30 to 34 and by 140 percent among women ages 35 to 44. Women over 35 now account for roughly one of every seven American births. And if breakthroughs in egg and ovary freezing continue at their present rate, motherhood at 50 will soon be a common option.
 This doesn't mean the end of the biological clock. It just means you can stop one clock while others keep running. You can be a parent, but an old one, as donor-egg moms in their 50s and 60s are demonstrating. Men have been making babies in their 50s and beyond for ages; once women can do the same using their own eggs, the risk is that children will grow up with two fading parents. Ideally, we'll harmonize extended fertility with extended longevity and health so that the length of a generation expands without a net loss of parental vitality.
 How will the 40- and 50-something moms of tomorrow manage kids and jobs simultaneously? By sleeping less -- as the rest of us will probably do as well. Electric light, the Internet and the global economy have already blurred the distinction between night and workday. We need eight hours of sleep, but Americans are getting less than seven.
 How can we get by with reduced sleep? Truckers, pilots, college students, medical residents and other long-shift workers already take stimulants like Ritalin, amphetamines, caffeine pills and modafinil. Two months ago, an Army-sponsored report outlined the latest research on pharmaceutical ''fatigue countermeasures'' and proposed ways to ''improve sleep efficiency so that the necessary physiological processes accomplished during sleep could be done much more rapidly or without the loss of consciousness.'' This has become the military's top neuroscience project because the payoff in battle would be enormous. In economic and family life, the ramifications would be even bigger.
 Not every biotech breakthrough will be liberating. Consider one business model of the future: addiction. The easiest way to keep your customers is to hook them. Cigarettes may be on the way out, but nicotine is now available via new delivery systems like vaporizers and lozenges. The next frontier of engineered addiction is food. David Kessler's recent book ''The End of Overeating'' documents the food industry's self-described efforts to ''spike'' products, ''drive cravings'' and create ''repeat'' purchasers. In one study, 40 of 43 rats preferred sugar to cocaine after trying both. Are fatty and sugary foods addictive as well as destructive to global health? Will we end up regulating them accordingly?
 If that kind of regulation seems too intrusive, and if we can't conquer our urges, perhaps we can render them harmless. That was the insight behind birth control: sex without pregnancy. It's the idea behind electronic cigarettes: nicotine without smoke. The latest weight-loss method is intestinal surgery, which can reduce absorption as well as appetite. Eat, and the food goes through you. Last year, a drug administered to mice boosted their muscular endurance as though they had exercised. And thanks to regenerative medicine, decayed teeth, scarred livers and clogged blood vessels will be among the first self-replaceable body parts. Bad habits will no longer have permanent consequences.
 To the reader of 2009, some of these changes may sound freaky or unsettling. But a century from now, they'll seem as normal as pacemakers, hip replacements and in vitro fertilization have become today. Our descendants, like us, won't just be technology's judges. They'll be its products, too.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An essay on Aug. 2 about developments in medical science and technology, using information from the Web site of the writer Sally Satel, misstated the year of publication for her book ''When Altruism Isn't Enough: The Case for Compensating Kidney Donors.'' It was 2009, not 2008.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEONARDO SONNOLI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPLANT SURGERY (89%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); TRENDS (75%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); ORGAN DONATION (74%); MEDICAL DEVICES (72%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); TAX LAW (66%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (63%); HEARING AIDS (63%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (62%); BRAIN (62%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (57%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



42 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Why We Must Ration Health Care

 BODY:
 Peter Singer is right when he says that we must ration health care. If we are going to develop an equitable and effective national health care system in the United States, then we must face the fact that, while modern medicine can do amazing things, its price is sometimes so large that it should not be paid. Bureaucrats have got to be involved, and here's hoping that they are devoted and well trained. If President Obama wants to do the nation a service, he should emphasize these ultimate necessities, rather than advising governors to avoid using the ''ration'' word. 
 ALAN WASHBURN Monterey, Calif. 
 Health care, like all finite resources in the universe, is rationed today and will be rationed in the future. The question is who should be doing the rationing. In a society that respects life and values freedom, that task is best leftto a marketplace of individuals making decisions for themselves, which is why health care reform should focus on decentralizing health insurance, not socializing it. Americans should be able to make decisions for themselves as to how much of their resources today they want to set aside for insurance that they may need in the future. To surrender our freedom and dignity to power-hungry central planners in exchange for lofty Utopian promises is an act that will mark us for generations to come as well-meaning but misguided fools.
 PETER CLINCH Silver Spring, Md.
 To speak of ''x years of a nondisabled life is worth n years of a disabled life'' is to ignore the fact that all human lives are often touched by disabilities from birth to death. Worse yet, to speak of this is simply to equate human worth with biological longevity. May we never reach such a depraved sense of existence, ''human or animal.''
 To curb the sale and manufacture of drugs because of expense, or making fatuous equations of the price of health care in such terms, ignores the history of medicine and the purposes of treatment: to extend the care and life of people without regard to individual merits or even the collective costs to society.
 IRVING LOUIS HOROWITZ Hannah Arendt Distinguished University Professor Emeritus Rutgers University
 As a physician who has worked more than 40 years trying to improve health-care-delivery systems, I would like to respond to Peter Singer's poorly thought out argument. To institute rationing for all except those who can purchase their own alternate or supplemental insurance is to institute a two-tier system: one for the average-income person and the poor and another for the wealthy. In my view, we must look for other solutions that continue to help doctors understand cost-effective care and benefit us as a people. One approach that I have familiarity with is the regional comprehensive medical center, in which each region has a very accessible comprehensive center. There, doctors are paid a salary, and peer review and integration of care are at their maximum. This way, cost is far more easily controlled and kept low without rationing.
 ARNOLD ROBBINS, M.D. Associate Professor of Clinical Psychiatry Boston University Medical Center Cambridge, Mass.
 As a medical educator I enjoyed Peter Singer's explanation of cost-effectiveness and the inevitability of health care rationing. I fear, however, that his provocative example of Sutent, a costly drug for advanced kidney cancer, obscures a more important message. The major impact of a cost-effective approach to health care does not relate to expensive therapies for relatively rare diseases; rather, it relates to the care of chronic conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, which consume enormous health care dollars.
 For these diseases, careful economic analysis may reveal that an older, inexpensive diagnostic test or treatment strategy is more cost-effective than a newer, more expensive one. This information can and should inform physicians' decisions. Cost-effective medicine does not imply that patients are denied care, but that they have the opportunity to receive the best, most sensible care supported by evidence. Maybe this explains, as Singer points out, the fact that Britons and Canadians are actually happier with their health care than we Americans.
 DEBORAH KORENSTEIN, M.D. Mount Sinai School of Medicine New York
 Peter Singer's excellent article makes a major point: the operation of markets in distributing scarce health resources among people and alternative uses is just as much a form of rationing as are the decisions of ''soulless'' bureaucrats.
 As with all markets, those with the most purchasing power get first dibs on the use of resources, following the principle of ''one dollar, one vote.'' Unfortunately, Singer's utilitarian analysis distracts us from a major point: all such rationing is a political decision. In the United States, political decision making has again and again given the advantage to the richest. Is it possible that this results not from philosophical analysis but from the disproportionate political power of the rich?
 JAMES DEVINE Professor of Economics Loyola Marymount University
 While Peter Singer provides a valuable discussion of health care rationing, there is a common misconception that is not addressed. We often make the assumption that more expensive care is always better. In many cases needless tests and overtreatment contribute to patient harm and suffering. So even before we tackle the difficult issue of rationing, we should consider the improved safety and quality that results from appropriate patient care and reap huge cost savings in the process. Having primary-care physicians coordinate patients' care, providing expert hospital-care services and restricting commercial influences will be giant steps forward in patient-care quality and cost containment.
 ANDREW KOSSEFF, M.D. Medical Director of System Clinical Improvement SSM Health Care Madison, Wis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO ILLUSTRATION BY TOM SCHIERLITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE RATIONING (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



43 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Trendy Japanese Flock to Hybrids

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: Yokohama, Japan 

 BODY:
 SHOPPERS who stop into Toyota dealerships here and across Japan generally have just one thing on their minds: buying a Prius.
 After years of indifference toward hybrids -- in part because many gas-only models that got excellent mileage were already available in showrooms -- drivers in Japan are lining up for the Prius, the Honda Insight and other models powered by gasoline and electricity. 
 The enthusiasm for hybrids is also a result of new models arriving in showrooms. Toyota introduced the third-generation Prius in May; in June, it was the best-selling car in Japan, elbowing aside the Insight, which in March became the first hybrid to hold the top sales spot. 
 Honda has been selling about 10,000 Insights a month, twice as many as had been expected in the company's internal forecasts. There has been a five-month waiting list for the Prius in Japan, similar to the situation in California last year when gas prices swept past $4 a gallon.
 ''Ordinarily, small cars don't have much status, but people don't care about changing from a bigger vehicle to a smaller vehicle if it's a Prius these days,'' said Toshiyuki Yokoyama, the general manager at Kanagawa Toyota Motor Sales, which runs about 50 dealerships in and around Yokohama. ''Suddenly, everyone wants the car as soon as possible.''
 Japanese consumers are only now embracing hybrids because, as in Europe, there have been plenty of cheaper fuel-efficient alternatives. But the sales of new, reasonably priced models have jumped in the past year or so because of government subsidies and a blizzard of media coverage that has fueled Japan's fad-conscious consumers.
 The question is whether the recent surge in sales of ''eco cars,'' as the Japanese call hybrids and alternative-fuel vehicles, is a lasting trend or one pumped up by short-term subsidies and high gasoline prices.
 In the United States, where Japanese automakers had trouble keeping up with demand for hybrids in 2008, sales have slowed (along with the rest of the market). Toyota suspended work on a factory in Mississippi devoted to building the Prius.
 Japanese are eager consumers of trendy products -- everything from the latest handbags to video games -- and sales often fall as fast as they rise. 
 Automakers in Japan say, however, that sales of hybrids will remain strong even if government subsidies of up to $4,000 are phased out. Though down from the peaks reached in 2008, gas prices are still relatively high, and in a weak economy consumers are looking to spend less on gasoline.
 From an early age, Japanese are taught to be more efficient because their country has few natural resources. To reduce the use of air-conditioners, businessmen a few years ago were encouraged to do without neckties. Appliance companies eagerly promote waterless washing machines.
 But it is price that matters most, which is why Toyota and Honda used less costly technology to cut the cost of their hybrids below three million yen, or $30,000, the rough benchmark for a luxury car in Japan.
 Price was definitely an issue for Eiji Suga, a storekeeper in Kawagoe, a city one hour from Tokyo, who reserved a white Prius in April. 
 Mr. Suga's 13-year old Honda Accord, which has 43,000 miles on it, had very little resale value. But because of the car's age, he qualified for a 250,000 yen (about $2,500) government subsidy if he scrapped the car and bought a more fuel-efficient replacement.
 He will receive another 150,000 yen in tax breaks for buying an eco car. The price of the new Prius was about 300,000 yen lower than its predecessor, too.
 ''Together with the tax breaks and other government benefits, it was easy to choose,'' said Mr. Suga, who added that seven of his friends in the neighborhood were also buying the new Prius. 
 Nissan and Mitsubishi have also announced plans to leapfrog hybrids with new electric vehicles. 
 But the durability of the hybrids on the market may make it hard for automakers in Japan to persuade consumers to buy electric cars.
 Tadashi Ishida, a retired electronics company executive, bought his Prius in 2006 to replace a Toyota Mark II, taking advantage of a 190,000 yen government rebate. Mr. Ishida, who lives in Yokohama, has been particularly impressed with the car's fuel economy.
 He uses just a quarter-tank of gas to get to his family's summer house about 75 miles away, about half of what it took to get there in the Mark II. He said that hybrids were no passing fad.
 ''Average Japanese people do not consider the hybrid car a status symbol,'' Mr. Ishida said. ''Our Prius just fits our needs in terms of fuel consumption, daily family use and easy driving.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BROWSING: Honda is selling twice as many Insight hybrids in Japan as it had expected. A shopper checks one out at the company headquarters in Tokyo.
 WAITING: Eiji Suga is replacing his Honda Accord with a Toyota Prius.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM O'CONNELL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Catching On at Home: Hybrids generated little interest in Japan when first introduced, but high gas prices and a new generation of the Toyota Prius have spurred sales. Here are Prius sales, in thousands, from 1997 to 2008. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (86%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE & PARTS DEALERS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); TRENDS (76%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%) KANTO, JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



44 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 216 words

HEADLINE: Risk and Regulation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''An Early-Warning System, Run by the Fed,'' (Economic View, July 26), in which Alan S. Blinder suggested making the Federal Reserve the nation's regulator of systemic risk: 
 The column said that ''when truly systemic problems arise, a lender of last resort is almost certain to be part of the solution -- and that means the central bank.'' But to me this description is an argument for a new, independent regulator outside the central bank. We need a system that clearly discredits the ''too big to fail'' mentality. Having a ''lender of last resort'' as the systemic risk regulator keeps this mentality alive. 
 A separate regulator should have the power to seize and wind down operations of a failing institution. Keeping this power apart from the Fed also prevents it from being drawn into the political maelstrom of whether to lend funds to a weakened institution or to seize it for an orderly winddown.
 In a crisis, the Fed should do what it does best: provide liquidity to the system without picking which institutions will survive or perish. Jonathan Adams
 Princeton, N.J., July 27
 The writer is an adjunct professor of finance at the School of Continuing and Professional Studies at New York University. 
 Letter for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz@nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); WRITERS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



45 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUNDAY ROUTINE DAN CUNNINGHAM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: When Batter Up Means Up at 4:30

BYLINE: By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
Dan Cunningham, 44, a Red-Sox-to-pinstripes convert, has been grooming the Yankees' baseball field for 21 years. Yes, this may qualify for some sort of longevity award inside the tumultuous, ''You're hired, you're fired, now clean out your locker'' Steinbrenner cosmos. Mr. Cunningham lives in a Hell's Kitchen walk-up with his yellow lab, Scout; they spend days off at his home in South Kingstown, R.I. ROBIN FINN
 UP BEFORE SUNRISE I wake up around 4:30 so I have time to give the dog a quick walk and leave the house by 5. I'd prefer not to be an early bird, but when you have to be at the ballpark by 6, that's life. I stop for coffee, then I take the C or the A to the D to my final destination: 161 in the South Bronx. Yeah, there's nothing like going to work at the crack of dawn. 
 CAFFEINATION Assuming we have a 1 p.m. Sunday game and the weather is cooperating, first thing I do at the ballpark is get a cup of coffee. If it rained overnight and we didn't cover the field, we're in a lot of trouble. Otherwise, we start getting the field ready for 10:30 batting practice; put up the protective nets and screens. We don't wear uniforms, but we do wear sponsor attire: this season it's Nike and Tommy Bahama.
 FIELD OF DREAMS Besides mowing the bluegrass to 1 1/4 inches and hand-watering the infield, there's a lot of cleaning up, because with ballplayers, there's a lot of spitting out. Mainly sunflower seeds and gum. Not many guys use tobacco or snuff products anymore. In the new ballpark, I've noticed less stuff thrown onto the field from the stands; could be the economy. Nothing's disposable. Just kidding.
 BREAKFAST OF CHAMPIONS Around 7:30 we take a coffee break; sometimes McDonald's, but usually we go to the visitors' clubhouse and have whatever's cooking. If I eat, it's a bacon sandwich.
 GAME TIME After batting practice, we remove all the netting, work on the mounds, which means repacking and leveling the clay, put the bases out, make sure the baselines are pliable but not slick. There's a fine line. You get it all consistent and then you hope Mother Nature doesn't have other ideas. We change the bases and drag the infield every third inning.
 GAME OVER We do prework on the clay for the next day, then it's a beer at the tavern, and back on the subway. 
 CLOSE-TO-HOME COOKING I go out to dinner every night. On a Sunday, dinner and nothing is my usual plan. My favorite places to eat in the neighborhood are Five Napkin Burger, Westway Diner and Lansdowne Road. What I have for dinner is similar to what I have for lunch: it definitely isn't about fruit and vegetables. Something not healthy. Sorry about that; somehow I still weigh 175. 
 EXTRA INNINGS? I never stay out late on Sunday. After dinner it's back home, walk the dog again, bed by 9. I may watch a little TV before I fall asleep, but nothing in particular, probably just the baseball highlights. Monday morning comes early.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SPIT-SHINED: Dan Cunningham's to-do list at the Yankees' field includes cleaning up after the ballplayers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA EBELHAR/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); DOGS (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (62%); DRINKING PLACES (60%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (91%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); KINGSTOWN, SAINT VINCENT & THE GRENADINES (57%) NEW YORK, USA (78%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



46 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: A Choreographed Move

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL. 
E-mail: bigdeal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
PAUL TAYLOR, the choreographer and modern dance icon, likes to keep a close eye on his dance company. So when the rehearsal studio of the Paul Taylor Dance Company moved from its home on Broadway in SoHo to make way for an expansion of a Banana Republic store, he decided to move with it. 
 Mr. Taylor, who is 78, once danced in the companies of Merce Cunningham, Martha Graham and George Balanchine. He has now decided to sell the town house he has lived in on Vandam Street for nearly 40 years, and move closer to his new rehearsal studio across town. The studio will be housed in a former auditorium in the East River Houses, a co-op on the Lower East Side. 
 ''I am in the habit of walking to work,'' Mr. Taylor said. He is moving to an apartment in the co-ops that line Grand Street near the East River, he said. (He also has a second home on the North Fork of Long Island.) 
 The town house he is selling is part of a row of historic Federal buildings that date to the 1820s, and includes a fourth-story atelier with a pitched roof, where Mr. Taylor has an office. It has 19th-century details, marble mantels and crown moldings, and an asking price of $4.75 million. The proceeds from the sale will go to the dance company.
 It is currently set up as a two-bedroom house. It is 20 feet wide, but only 39 feet deep -- small by later town-house standards -- for a total of about 3,300 square feet. But that leaves room for a 60-foot-deep garden ''filled with roses,'' according to the listing. 
 Mr. Taylor said he had lived in his rehearsal studio until he bought the house in 1970, for $140,000, according to city property records. But then a town-house broker he met through the dance world, Pat Mason, persuaded him to get his own place a few blocks from his studio. Leontyne Price, the soprano, and Richard Tuttle, the artist, are famous names linked to the area, real estate brokers say.
 Ms. Mason's husband was Francis Mason, a dance writer and critic, and last month Mr. Taylor listed the town house with their daughter, Leslie Mason, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman, who like her late mother specializes in town houses.
 Property records show that in May, Mr. Taylor transferred title of his house to the Paul Taylor Dance Company. ''These days everybody needs money,'' Mr. Taylor explained. He said the company was managing during the recession but could make good use of the proceeds to support its operations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FOR SALE: The Vandam Street town house owned by Paul Taylor is listed for $4.75 million.(PHOTOGRAPHS JENN ACKERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); DANCE COMPANIES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (88%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); HOME PRICES (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); WRITERS (66%)

COMPANY: DOUGLAS ELLIMAN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



47 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: How a Little Inflation Could Help a Lot

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
BECAUSE fiscal stimulus has not yet been a striking success, perhaps it's time to consider new monetary remedies for the economy. 
 That is the argument of Prof. Scott Sumner, an economist at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., who is little known outside academic circles but whose views have been spreading, thanks to his blog, TheMoneyIllusion (blogsandwikis.bentley.edu/themoneyillusion/).
 Professor Sumner proposes that the Federal Reserve make a firm commitment to raising expectations of price inflation to 2 to 3 percent annually. 
 In his view, policy makers in Washington are doing too much with fiscal policy -- overspending and running excess deficits -- and not doing enough on the monetary side.
 While his views are controversial, they are based on some assumptions that are not. It is commonly agreed among economists that deflation brings layoffs and sluggish investment. Yet, energy price shocks aside, we have been seeing downward pressure on prices. Futures markets and Treasury Inflation-Protected Securities -- more precisely, the spread between the yield on TIPS and traditional securities -- suggest current expectations that inflation will remain well under 1 percent. Economists generally agree that this is not ideal, and Professor Sumner urges the Fed to try especially hard to overcome the deflationary pressures. 
 But how would the Fed accomplish this feat? This is where his recommendations get interesting. 
 The Fed has already taken some unconventional monetary measures to stimulate the economy, but they haven't been entirely effective. Professor Sumner says the central bank needs to take a different approach: it should make a credible commitment to spurring and maintaining a higher level of inflation, promising to use newly created money to buy many kinds of financial assets if necessary. And it should even pay negative interest on bank reserves, as the Swedish central bank has started to do. In essence, negative interest rates are a penalty placed on banks that sit on their money instead of lending it.
 Much to the chagrin of Professor Sumner, the Fed has been practicing the opposite policy recently, by paying positive interest on bank reserves -- essentially, inducing banks to hoard money.
 The Fed's balance sheet need not swell to accomplish these aims. Once people believe that inflation is coming, they will be willing to spend more money.
 In other words, if the Fed announces a sufficient willingness to undergo extreme measures to create price inflation, it may not actually have to do so. Professor Sumner's views differ from the monetarism of Milton Friedman by emphasizing expectations rather than any particular measure of the money supply. 
 The Keynesian critique of this remedy is that printing more money won't stimulate the economy because uncertainty has put us in a ''liquidity trap,'' which means that the new money will be hoarded rather than spent. Professor Sumner responds that inflating the currency is one step that just about every government or central bank can take. Even if success is not guaranteed, it seems that we ought to be trying harder.
 Arguably, we can live with 2 or 3 percent inflation, especially if it stems the drop in employment. Consistently, Professor Sumner argues that the Fed should have been more aggressive with monetary policy in the summer of 2008, before the economy started its downward spiral. Somewhat tongue in cheek, he once wrote on his blog: ''Like a broken clock the monetary cranks are right twice a century; 1933, and today.'' 
 It may all sound too simple to be true, but has the status quo been so good as to silence all doubts? Many advocates expected that the $775 billion allocation to fiscal stimulus would be followed rapidly by generous funding for health care and other reforms. But at the moment, the American public, rightly or wrongly, is blanching at higher government spending and higher taxes. In contrast, a Fed stance in favor of mild price inflation need not require higher taxes or larger budget deficits. 
 While these arguments have not won over the economics profession, neither have they been refuted. Economists like Paul Krugman have suggested that a public Fed policy favoring 2 or 3 percent price inflation isn't politically realistic in today's environment. Still, mild inflation might still be a better shot than hoping for a fiscal stimulus that is big enough, rapid enough and ambitious enough to work. 
 IF there is a flaw in Professor Sumner's argument, it is that aggregate demand doesn't always drive business recovery. Circa 2007, for reasons of their own making, various sectors of the economy were in a vulnerable position. These included real estate, the automobile industry and retail sales. Higher price inflation would not have solved their problems, which stemmed from basically flawed business models that depended on rampant credit. Still, a different Fed stance might have limited the secondary fallout from the financial crisis.
 Of course, there's a risk that inflation could get out of hand and rise above 2 or 3 percent. That said, the Fed has battled inflation successfully in the past, and could do so again if necessary.
 Professor Sumner has been working for 20 years on what he hopes will be a definitive economic history of the Great Depression. In this manuscript, tentatively titled ''The Midas Curse: Gold, Wages, and the Great Depression,'' he argues that Sweden in the 1930s made a credible commitment to expansionary monetary policy and had a milder depression as a result.
 Professor Sumner's proposals may not be public policy now. But if there is one thing economists should know, it is that we should not underestimate the power of an idea. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (67%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



48 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 867 words

 BODY:
Readers responded online and by e-mail to the news last week that David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez tested positive for performanceenhancing drugs in 2003.
 I suppose in a weird way, the playing field was level, after all. BOYD LEMON Cambridge, Mass.
 This is why baseball is a complete joke. These leaks of superstars doping themselves up is corrupting what was once a pure American tradition. It shouldn't matter how long ago they did it; we shouldn't just move on because the seeds of their corruption were planted long before their pathetic names were released. I'm not just referring to Ramirez and Ortiz, either. These recent incidents have to make one wonder, What's there to like about baseball anymore? MATT FAIRLEY Columbus, Ohio 
 Obviously the Red Sox' victory in '04 was tainted. As opposed to, say, the last four Yankees World Series wins, because it's not like any players from those teams have done anything at all suspicious. MICHAEL LOVE New York
 Asterisks attached to individual achievements or team championships are not the point of recent revelations about drug use in baseball. Part of our attachment to baseball has been its reflection of our society over its long history. From race relations, to labor relations, to economics and, most recently, to drugs, baseball has always represented the good, the bad and ugly about America, even to the extent of our state of denial for long periods. The baseball museum at Cooperstown should simply tell the whole story. Hopefully, we will learn from it and then move on. BRUCE NEUMAN Sag Harbor, N.Y.
 I was a member of a normal commercial fitness place in the suburbs. Steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs were openly used and talked about by the amateur athletes and personal trainers there. I am a nice middle-age lady who was using the treadmill and knows the names and properties of many such drugs just from the conversations in the place. I cannot believe that a professional athlete, with his career, money and prestige on the line, would not have been even more interested than these folks who have much less on the line. WENDYWILSON Somerset, N.J.
 So what is new? And to realize the young generation is watching their heroes turn out to be druggies. I stopped watching baseball many years ago when we didn't properly punish the offenders. Suspension and a fine. That is too easy. I realized I could not accept drugs being used. I don't understand why we don't bar a player for life after testing positive. And the owner has to take the offender's salary and donate it to a drug-rehabilitation program for kids. That way, the team has a responsibility, too. RONALD SEGLER Roswell, Ga.
 I look forward to the day when players will no longer be juiced, when accusations will stop flying, when players' contracts and ticket prices will reflect a good deal rather than greed, when baseball news returns to just being news about baseball, when we can just enjoy the game for what it is: a game. But I won't hold my breath waiting for this day. LOUIS CHIRILLO Salvador da Bahia, Brazil
 Can we just say most guys were using something and move on? LAWRENCE P. KANE Pittsburgh
 Don't forget all the rants Curt Schilling made about players' doping. If these allegations are true, are we seriously to believe Schilling didn't know that the two biggest run-producers on his team were doping? CHRIS ORMSBY New York
 The real crime here is the lawyers who gave up this information. I respect reporters' privilege to keep their sources confidential, but not in this context. This news does not benefit anyone, and there were legal agreements in place to ensure the names on the list were not made public. The names of these lawyers who leaked these names should be released and they should be disbarred, thrown in jail for violating their duties and sued by people like Ortiz and Sosa and A-Rod whose lives were ruined. ADAM New York
 The next question should be why George Mitchell turned a blind eye to what was going on in his own backyard. He made a big deal about going after the New York team involvement, but was strangely quiet about his beloved Sox. So after all of the Red Sox jeers and demands about returning the Yankees rings, are they ready to forfeit their two steroid-induced titles? DAVID NYC New York
 The revelations of recent years suggest that no one in pro baseball is in a position to throw stones at the Sox. Sadly, there is no championship team in recent memory whose victory cannot be plausibly suspected of being due at least in part to banned performance enhancers. Baseball, after all, is a business as well as a sport, and as such has apparently been infected with the ''who cares about the rules, do whatever it takes as long as you don't get caught'' mentality, which played such a large role in damaging, among other things, the financial sector. That mind-set is a greater threat to the national pastime than steroids could ever be. It undermines the whole idea of baseball as a fair contest between teams of athletes, not teams of doctors and drug procurers. ERIC B. LIPPS Staten Island
 This means it is now 91 years and counting since the Red Sox actually won a championship. JOSEPH URLA New York

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Released by the Twins in 2002, David Ortiz, above, teamed with Manny Ramirez in Boston to form one of baseball's most feared hitting tandems.(PHOTOGRAPH BY C J GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM McISAAC/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); STEROIDS (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); RACE & RACISM (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



49 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1256 words

HEADLINE: The Real Murder Mystery? It's the Low Crime Rate

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
MAYBE it is time to call in one of those clairvoyants who help detectives solve the case. Because no one else can explain what criminals have been doing in the first half of 2009. 
 Not that the news is bad -- from New York to Los Angeles to Madison, Wis., major crimes, violent or not, are down between 7 percent and 22 percent over the same period last year. In Chicago, the number of homicides dropped 12 percent. In Charlotte, N.C., hard hit by the banking crisis, that total fell an astounding 38 percent. It is too soon to conclude that crime will decline throughout the recession, and the new numbers, which come from standardized reports that police departments send to the F.B.I., have yet to be made into a national measure. But crime was supposed to go up, not sharply down. 
 The surprise is yet more proof that tea leaves and sun spots may be a better predictor of crime rates than criminologists and the police. Despite the large sums the country spends on law enforcement -- just last week, the Justice Department awarded the first of $1 billion in stimulus-package grants to police departments -- experts are largely at a loss to explain what makes the crime rate go up or down. Even the exceptions to the latest trend are baffling. Why, for example, did crime go up in Denver, of all places? Denver isn't sure. 
 Many experienced criminologists admit to being confounded, but point out that economists have no better track record. ''If I could predict the crime rate,'' said Barry Krisberg, the president of the National Council on Crime and Delinquency, ''I'd start working as a stock broker.''
 No single lens -- sociological, econometrical, liberal or conservative -- seems an adequate one through which to view crime. The economy, which seems as if it should be fundamental, has never been a good predictor; the Prohibition era was far more violent than the Great Depression. Adding prison beds has not helped; the incarceration rate has marched grimly upward for decades, while the crime rate has zigzagged up and down, seemingly oblivious. Years ago, criminologists thought demographics explained a lot -- remember the warnings about thousands of cold-blooded, teenage ''superpredators'' in the mid-1990s? -- but demographics cannot shed light on what is happening now. Improved policing deserves credit for bigger declines in certain cities, but not the overall national trend.
 Scholars have attributed lower crime rates to everything from an influx of immigrants, who tend to keep a low profile; to changes in public housing policy that have dispersed the poor; to better medicine (more lives saved in the operating room equals fewer homicides); to a marked shift in the attitudes of the young and poor (the hip-hop generation, which was supposed to be desensitized by explicit lyrics and large swaths of visible underwear, has turned out fine). 
 The search for a silver bullet -- a single factor that could explain the steady drop in crime since the mid-1990s -- has taken theorists far afield. There is the abortion theory, which proposes that legalized abortion reduced the number of unwanted children who turned to a life of crime. It's a seductive explanation for United States data, but it does not bear out in other countries that legalized abortion in the 1970s, said Franklin E. Zimring, a law professor at the University of California at Berkeley. There is the gun theory, which posits that expanded gun ownership rights have deterred criminals who now must consider whether their victims are armed. But that does not explain the most significant decline in the country, in New York City, where gun ownership is low, said Mr. Zimring, who dedicated part of his book, ''The Great American Crime Decline,'' to debunking such theories. (Despite writing that exhaustive volume, Professor Zimring admits that for criminologists, ''the score is Know: 2; Don't Know: 8.'')
 Even mainstream theories can falter under scrutiny. The idea that illegal drug use drives up crime is not bolstered by statistics that show that the percentage of those arrested in New York City with illegal drugs in their system has remained more or less flat, Mr. Zimring said.
 One reason for the lack of answers is lack of money, said Alfred Blumstein, a prominent criminologist at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. ''The National Institutes of Health spends $400 million a year on dental research,'' he said. ''The National Institute of Justice spends $50 million a year on criminal justice research.''
 Perhaps as a result, police departments and prosecutors can be swayed by fads, spending millions on programs like Drug Abuse Resistance Education, or D.A.R.E., which came under fire from critics who said it lacked a proven success record (it later changed its strategy). ''Police research is to research like military music is to music,'' Mr. Krisberg said. ''It has never matured to be a very sophisticated science.''
 For the police, of course, crime policy is a political matter, with new theories attracting new money. In 2006, when violent crime inched up by less than 2 percentage points, the Police Executive Research Forum issued a report called ''A Gathering Storm.'' 
 But the police were not the only ones who thought crime could not stay at post-1960 lows. The thugs and marauders were supposed to be back with a vengeance after the horrors of crack cocaine receded from memory; the safety net was dismantled; and education reform proved slow. 
 Last year, The Third Way, a progressive think tank, gathered governors like Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, now President Obama's secretary of Health and Human Services, and Janet Napolitano of Arizona, now secretary of Homeland Security, to warn of ''the impending crime wave,'' identifying such factors as ''the lengthening shadow of illegal immigration'' and ''the sprawling parentless neighborhood of the Internet.''
 Such appeals to Americans' fears, several criminologists said, is often linked to a political agenda fueled less by crime than by another variable that is famously unfazed by real-world predictors: public perception. Along with its report, The Third Way released a poll showing that by a 5-to-1 ratio, Americans believed crime was worse than it had been the year before. By year's end, though, the national crime data showed a decrease. In Atlanta, where crime is down 10 percent, a recent series of high-profile incidents has spurred critics to hammer the mayor over what they call a crisis.
 While the decline may not have taken hold in the minds of the public, it has undermined a cherished belief, particularly among liberals, in root causes -- that criminals are born of misery and the limited options of poverty. ''There are people that are putting up with an awful lot of suffering, and they're not complaining all that much,'' said Andrew Karmen, a criminologist at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. 
 But the fact that so few forces have a demonstrable effect on crime can be viewed, in a twisted kind of way, as good news. The decline, Mr. Zimring said, has shown that it isn't necessary to accomplish major feats, like improving education or raising wages, or punitive ones, like increasing prison sentences, to bring crime down. Smart policing can have an effect. ''Crime isn't an essential part of cities as we know them,'' Mr. Zimring said. Instead, it is a mystery with a direction all its own, one that may be beyond the reach of public policy. Which is easier to tolerate when that direction is down.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY LEIF PARSONS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIME RATES (94%); MURDER (90%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TRENDS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (89%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); SOCIOLOGY (62%); LIBERALISM (62%); PUBLIC HOUSING (60%); HIP HOP CULTURE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (92%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



50 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 184 words

HEADLINE: Amy Jacob, Walter Looney III

 BODY:
Amy Mildred Royle Jacob and Walter Adams Looney III were married Saturday at the home of the bridegroom's parents in New York. Judge Gerard E. Lynch of Federal District Court in New York officiated. 
 The couple met at Harvard, from which the bride graduated and the bridegroom received a Ph.D. in economics. 
 Mrs. Looney, 29, works in Washington as an account manager with Horne Creative Group, a marketing and communications firm in Reston, Va. 
 She is a daughter of Louise Jacobs of Yonkers and Martin C. Royle of London. Her father retired as the director of road lighting policy for the British department for transport. Her mother is a copy editor at Story Worldwide, a marketing agency in New York. 
 Mr. Looney, 32, an economist, is on leave from the Federal Reserve Board in Washington while serving as a senior economist for the White House Council of Economic Advisers. He graduated from Dartmouth. He is a son of Diane O. Looney and Walter A. Looney Jr. His mother is a freelance interior designer in New York. His father is a partner at Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, the New York law firm. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIZ LIGON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (75%); LAWYERS (74%); INTERIOR DECORATING (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%)

COMPANY: SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (54%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); VIRGINIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (69%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



51 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; IN-BOX; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Plenty of Blame to Go Around

 BODY:
Readers responded online and by e-mail to the news last week that David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez tested positive for performanceenhancing drugs in 2003.
 I suppose in a weird way, the playing field was level, after all. BOYD LEMON Cambridge, Mass.
This is why baseball is a complete joke. These leaks of superstars doping themselves up is corrupting what was once a pure American tradition. It shouldn't matter how long ago they did it; we shouldn't just move on because the seeds of their corruption were planted long before their pathetic names were released. I'm not just referring to Ramirez and Ortiz, either. These recent incidents have to make one wonder, What's there to like about baseball anymore? MATT FAIRLEY Columbus, Ohio 
 Obviously the Red Sox' victory in '04 was tainted. As opposed to, say, the last four Yankees World Series wins, because it's not like any players from those teams have done anything at all suspicious. MICHAEL LOVE New York
 Asterisks attached to individual achievements or team championships are not the point of recent revelations about drug use in baseball. Part of our attachment to baseball has been its reflection of our society over its long history. From race relations, to labor relations, to economics and, most recently, to drugs, baseball has always represented the good, the bad and ugly about America, even to the extent of our state of denial for long periods. The baseball museum at Cooperstown should simply tell the whole story. Hopefully, we will learn from it and then move on. BRUCE NEUMAN Sag Harbor, N.Y.
 I was a member of a normal commercial fitness place in the suburbs. Steroids and other performance-enhancing drugs were openly used and talked about by the amateur athletes and personal trainers there. I am a nice middle-age lady who was using the treadmill and knows the names and properties of many such drugs just from the conversations in the place. I cannot believe that a professional athlete, with his career, money and prestige on the line, would not have been even more interested than these folks who have much less on the line. WENDYWILSON Somerset, N.J.
 So what is new? And to realize the young generation is watching their heroes turn out to be druggies. I stopped watching baseball many years ago when we didn't properly punish the offenders. Suspension and a fine. That is too easy. I realized I could not accept drugs being used. I don't understand why we don't bar a player for life after testing positive. And the owner has to take the offender's salary and donate it to a drug-rehabilitation program for kids. That way, the team has a responsibility, too. RONALD SEGLER Roswell, Ga.
 I look forward to the day when players will no longer be juiced, when accusations will stop flying, when players' contracts and ticket prices will reflect a good deal rather than greed, when baseball news returns to just being news about baseball, when we can just enjoy the game for what it is: a game. But I won't hold my breath waiting for this day. LOUIS CHIRILLO Salvador da Bahia, Brazil
 Can we just say most guys were using something and move on? LAWRENCE P. KANE Pittsburgh
 Don't forget all the rants Curt Schilling made about players' doping. If these allegations are true, are we seriously to believe Schilling didn't know that the two biggest run-producers on his team were doping? CHRIS ORMSBY New York
 The real crime here is the lawyers who gave up this information. I respect reporters' privilege to keep their sources confidential, but not in this context. This news does not benefit anyone, and there were legal agreements in place to ensure the names on the list were not made public. The names of these lawyers who leaked these names should be released and they should be disbarred, thrown in jail for violating their duties and sued by people like Ortiz and Sosa and A-Rod whose lives were ruined. ADAM New York
 The next question should be why George Mitchell turned a blind eye to what was going on in his own backyard. He made a big deal about going after the New York team involvement, but was strangely quiet about his beloved Sox. So after all of the Red Sox jeers and demands about returning the Yankees rings, are they ready to forfeit their two steroid-induced titles? DAVID NYC New York
 The revelations of recent years suggest that no one in pro baseball is in a position to throw stones at the Sox. Sadly, there is no championship team in recent memory whose victory cannot be plausibly suspected of being due at least in part to banned performance enhancers. Baseball, after all, is a business as well as a sport, and as such has apparently been infected with the ''who cares about the rules, do whatever it takes as long as you don't get caught'' mentality, which played such a large role in damaging, among other things, the financial sector. That mind-set is a greater threat to the national pastime than steroids could ever be. It undermines the whole idea of baseball as a fair contest between teams of athletes, not teams of doctors and drug procurers. ERIC B. LIPPS Staten Island
 This means it is now 91 years and counting since the Red Sox actually won a championship. JOSEPH URLA New York 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Released by the Twins in 2002, David Ortiz, above, teamed with Manny Ramirez in Boston to form one of baseball's most feared hitting tandems.(PHOTOGRAPH BY C J GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM McISAAC/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); CORRUPTION (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); STEROIDS (78%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (77%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); RACE & RACISM (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (56%); NEW YORK YANKEES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



52 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Rescues Unlimited: Government as Wall Street's Enabler

BYLINE: By DEVIN LEONARD

 BODY:
MANY people were outraged when Goldman Sachs returned $10 billion in federal bailout money just in time to report its biggest quarterly profit ever, along with a plan to pay $11 billion in employee bonuses. Barry Ritholtz, who writes The Big Picture, a popular financial blog, wasn't heartened by the news, either.
 Mr. Ritholtz, however, tried to keep his sense of humor. He posted a satirical story on his Web site by the comedian Andy Borowitz, titled ''Goldman Sachs in Talks to Acquire Treasury Department: Sister Entities to Share Employees, Money.'' 
 This is very much in the spirit of Mr. Ritholtz's book, ''Bailout Nation: How Greed and Easy Money Corrupted Wall Street and Shook the World Economy'' (Wiley), in which he argues that the American financial system has been twisted beyond recognition by cynical bankers and their Washington enablers, who champion the free market in good times but cry out for government rescue when times are hard.
 The author writes with the fury of an insider mortified by the behavior of his heretical peers. Mr. Ritholtz is himself a creature of Wall Street -- the chief executive of FusionIQ, an online equity research firm that profited last year by shorting the shares of companies like A.I.G. and Lehman Brothers.
 The way the author sees it, there are two kinds of people on Wall Street. There are the ones, like himself, who believe that the industry should be a ''brutal meritocracy'' where ''you eat what you kill.''
 Then, he writes, there are the ones at the top of some institutions that made billions of dollars disappear in the last 12 months through misuse of numbingly complex derivative products. When it appeared that they might go hungry, they hurried to Washington to feed on the government's bailout package, which the author calculates will leave taxpayers with $14 trillion in liabilities if you also factor in the rescues of General Motors, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 ''Yes, that's $14 trillion (plus) -- about equal to the gross domestic of the United States in 2007,'' Mr. Ritholtz laments. ''And as 2008 came to a close, even more industries caught the scent of easy money: Automakers, home builders, insurers, and even state and local governments were clamoring for a piece of the bailout pie.''
 Many argue that the government averted a catastrophe by pumping money into the banking system. Mr. Ritholtz isn't so sure. He thinks the rescue of Bear Stearns emboldened the ailing Lehman Brothers to brush off potential saviors like Warren E. Buffett, who were ready to invest in it. 
 In September, Lehman went bankrupt and all hell broke loose. Suddenly, the government couldn't dole out money fast enough.
 Mr. Ritholtz notes that the government wasn't always so willing to provide a safety net to banks. He contrasts efforts of George W. Bush last fall to those of Franklin D. Roosevelt in the Great Depression. Roosevelt, he says, came to the rescue of ordinary people, financing public works programs that created jobs and making mortgage loans to homeowners facing foreclosure.
 It all started to change in 1971, Mr. Ritholtz writes, when the government dished out $250 million in loan guarantees to Lockheed, which was ailing because it had submitted low bids to win government military contacts. That bailout paved the way for the $1.5 billion rescue of Chrysler in 1980.
 He writes that this rescue left the carmaker with the same management and did nothing to change onerous union contracts. If the government had allowed Chrysler to fail, he argues, the United Automobile Workers might have been more eager to make health care and pension concessions that would have made the industry more competitive. 
 The author argues that someone might have scooped up Chrysler's remains and made better cars, spurring rivals to do the same.
 Today, instead, foreign car manufacturers dominate the American market. The author writes that the U.A.W.'s membership has fallen by more than two-thirds since its peak of 1.5 million in 1979. And Chrysler recently declared bankruptcy along with G.M.
 ''If that's your idea of a successful bailout,'' Mr. Ritholtz writes, referring to the earlier attempt to save Chrysler, ''I'd hate to see what your idea of a losing one is like.'' 
 But the bailout he finds particularly abhorrent is the Federal Reserve's rescue in 1998 of Long-Term Capital Management, the hedge fund that nearly collapsed under heavily leveraged bets on exotic securities. He concedes that Long-Term Capital's lenders -- everybody from Bear Stearns to Merrill Lynch to Lehman -- would have felt pain if the fund had gone belly-up. But, he says, that would have been a ''ripping good lesson'' in risk management. 
 Instead, he writes, the Fed sent these banks the implicit signal that they, too, could expect to be saved if they took on too much risk. ''In sum,'' he says, ''Long-Term Capital Management was the dress rehearsal for the great credit crisis of 2008 -- and a missed opportunity to prevent the ongoing tragedy.''
 THE book sometimes reads like a lengthy blog post, and occasionally drives home its arguments with rude trading-floor jokes. There are moments when it almost chokes on its own bile. ''Adam Smith would not know whether to weep or retch were he alive to see this today,'' Mr. Ritholtz says as he nears the conclusion.
 Yet there is much to be said for the book's irreverence. Mr. Ritholtz has written an important book about a complicated subject, and yet you could still read it at the beach. Here's hoping that some policy makers in Washington take it with them on vacation this month. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); BONUS PAY (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); INSURANCE (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); EXECUTIVES (51%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (63%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (63%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



53 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; OUT-BOX; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 201 words

 BODY:
The five most e-mailed articles from nytimes.com/sports for July 25-31.
 1. RED SOX STARS SAID TO BE ON DOPING LISTManny Ramirez and David Ortiz, who helped the Boston Red Sox win two World Series championships, were among the roughly 100 major leaguers who tested positive in 2003, lawyers with knowledge of the results said. (Published July 31) 
 2. A NEUROSCIENCE PROFESSOR MAKES HER MOVE TO THE RACETRACK Michelle Nihei could have had a long career as a scientist. Instead, she is a trainer at Saratoga. (July 30)
 3. GIRLS' SPORTS PACK ECONOMIC PUNCH As the popularity of youth tournaments has intensified, girls' sporting events tend to attract more relatives and generate more revenue for tourism than similar events for boys. (July 29)
 4. SWIMMING BANS HIGH-TECH SUITS, 
 Ending an Era The international governing body of swimming has decided to ban the high-tech swimsuits that have been likened to doping on a hanger. (July 25)
 5. CONTADOR SHOWS DISLIKE FOR 
 Armstrong After Tour Alberto Contador said of Lance Armstrong, ''He is a great rider and has completed a great race, but it is another thing on a personal level, where I have never had great admiration for him and I never will.'' (July 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (93%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



54 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: Free Marriage Counseling

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Israel and America are having one of those periodic marital spats they have had over the years, replete with ''I-am-not-taking-any-more-of-your-guff'' outbursts by Obama officials at American Jewish leaders, and, yes -- it wouldn't be a real Israel-U.S. dust-up without it -- Israeli accusations that Jewish Obama aides are ''self-hating Jews,'' working out their identity crises by working over Israel. Having been to this play before, and knowing both families, I'd like to offer some free marriage counseling.
 Here's what Israelis need to understand: President Obama is not some outlier when it comes to Israel. His call for a settlements freeze reflects attitudes that have been building in America for a long time. For the last 40 years, a succession of Israeli governments has misled, manipulated or persuaded naive U.S. presidents that since Israel was negotiating to give up significant territory, there was no need to fight over ''insignificant'' settlements on some territory. Behind this charade, Israeli settlers bit off more and more of the West Bank, creating a huge moral, security and economic burden for Israel and its friends. 
 As Bradley Burston, a columnist for Israel's Haaretz newspaper, put it last week: ''The settlement movement has cost Israel some $100 billion. ... The double standard which for decades has favored settlers with inexpensive housing, heavily subsidized social services, and blind-eye building permits has long been accompanied by a kid-gloves approach regarding settler violence against Palestinians and their property. ... Settlers and settlement planners have covertly bent and distorted zoning procedures, military directives, and government decrees in order to boost settlement, block Palestinian construction, agriculture, and access to employment, and effectively neutralize measures intended to foster Israeli-Palestinian peace progress.''
 For years, the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations and the pro-Israel lobby, rather than urging Israel to halt this corrosive process, used their influence to mindlessly protect Israel from U.S. pressure on this issue and to dissuade American officials and diplomats from speaking out against settlements. Everyone in Washington knows this, and a lot of people -- people who care about Israel -- are sick of it.
 The Times's Jerusalem bureau chief, Ethan Bronner, captured the we-are-untouchable arrogance of the settlers last week when he quoted Rabbi Yigael Shandorfi, leader of a religious academy at the settlement of Nahliel, calling Mr. Obama in a speech ''that Arab they call a president.''
 So if Mr. Obama has bluntly pressed for a settlements freeze, he is, in fact, reflecting a broad sentiment in Congress, the Pentagon and among many Americans, Jews included. Haaretz quoted Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as calling two Obama aides pushing the freeze ''self-hating Jews.'' Bibi's spokesman denies he said that. I hope he didn't. When you have to trot that one out, you're really, really out of ammo.
 What about Mr. Obama? He has nothing to apologize for policy-wise. The president is working on a deal whereby Israel would agree to a real moratorium on settlement building, Palestinians would uproot terrorists and the Arab states would begin to normalize relations -- with visas for Israelis, trade missions, media visits and landing rights for El Al. If the president can pull this off, it would be good for everyone. But going forward, if peace talks get under way, there are a few style points Mr. Obama should keep in mind.
 One is: Don't get into the business of apportioning historical blame for this conflict, which his Cairo speech veered into. Palestinians don't believe they are to blame for this problem; neither do Israelis. A religious Israeli professor friend of mine said it well: ''People will give a lot if they think they are not guilty. My mother says to me: 'Look, I am ready to give them Jerusalem, but don't tell me that I started it.' ''
 The other point is: Israel has real enemies. Iran's president says the Holocaust is a myth, that Israel should be wiped away. And, he's trying to build a nuclear bomb. Israel unilaterally withdrew from South Lebanon and Gaza. Its leaving was messy, but it got out. And the first thing it got back was rockets. Israelis are like most people; they listen through their stomachs. That is, connect with them on a gut level that says you understand where they live, and you can take them anywhere. Don't connect on a gut level, and you can't take them anywhere.
 Bottom line: Israelis need to understand this is not the Bush administration anymore, where they had the run of the White House; they have a real problem with America on settlements. Mr. Obama needs to understand that on Arab-Israel affairs, the less you say and the more you do, the better off you are. Every word in this conflict has its own history. Get the deal done -- a settlement moratorium for some normalization -- and that breakthrough will do the talking. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUPLE COUNSELING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (73%); LOBBYING (72%); RELIGION (72%); ZONING (69%); BUILDING PERMITS (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (66%); WRITERS (65%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



55 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Curbing Runaway Health Inflation

 BODY:
This year's effort to reform health care revolves around two powerful, conflicting imperatives. One is to cover tens of millions of uninsured Americans. The other is to absorb the enormous cost of that plan -- which could reach $1 trillion over 10 years -- without increasing the budget deficit in the next decade or setting the nation on a course that will drive up deficits later.
 It is easier to see how to accomplish the first task than the second. But Congress should not slow the push for near-universal coverage while it looks for ways to apply the brakes to the growth in costs. We can be virtually certain that the reforms enacted will be deficit-neutral over the first 10 years. President Obama and Democratic leaders will find cuts in Medicare and raise sufficient taxes to offset the initial cost of insurance expansion. 
 It is much harder to find ways to slow inflation in health care costs. Peter Orszag, Mr. Obama's budget director, has been searching for what he calls ''game changers'' that can ''bend down the cost curve'' in coming years. The question is how well he and Congressional champions of health care reform have succeeded. 
 WHY IT'S IMPORTANTThe skyrocketing cost of health care is driving up federal deficits, threatening to bankrupt Medicare, forcing employers to cut or drop benefits, and leaving workers and their families with unaffordable bills. Even a relatively small reduction in the average annual growth rate over the next decade -- from, say, 6.2 percent to 4.7 percent -- could save more than $2 trillion for the health care system and hundreds or thousands of dollars for the average family. There is an enormous amount of money in the health care system, much of it spent on tests and procedures that do not improve health. It should be possible to wring out some of that spending.
 HOW CAN WE JUDGE SUCCESS? Douglas Elmendorf, director of the Congressional Budget Office, testified in mid-July that he saw no fundamental changes offered by the bills then emerging that would reduce the trajectory of federal health spending significantly. The implication was that the pending bills could actually make deficits bigger after the initial break-even decade. That's because covering the uninsured would increase federal spending and a high rate of medical inflation applied to that larger base would make future deficits worse. However, Mr. Elmendorf was looking only at bills that had cleared committees, which did not include one still being fashioned by the pivotal Senate Finance Committee.
 Senator Max Baucus, the Democrat who heads that committee, revealed last week that the C.B.O. had evaluated a draft of his bill and concluded that it would cover 95 percent of all Americans, for a cost below $900 billion, and would actually start reducing the deficit in 2019. That is better than the administration's goal of being deficit-neutral in that final year, but we will not know for sure until the C.B.O. issues a verdict on a final bill.
 The budget office provides vitally important guidance to Congress, but focuses primarily on how new legislation might affect federal spending and federal deficits. The office gives only a cursory glance at how reforms might cut costs for the overall system and yield savings for employers, families and state and local governments, the issue that concerns most people. 
 Moreover, the office makes middle-of-the road estimates of cost and more pessimistic estimates of savings. That makes sense (lawmakers and government agencies routinely exaggerate the virtues of their proposals), but it makes it harder to evaluate proposed innovations.
 Respected analysts who are not bound by the C.B.O.'s conservatism have projected significant savings from reforms that the C.B.O. scores poorly. The Commonwealth Fund, a research organization, and David Cutler, a Harvard health economist, separately estimate that an array of reforms could save the government hundreds of billions of dollars in the first decade and the health care system even more. These estimates, coming from advocates of reform, may be too rosy, but underscore the point that the C.B.O. may undervalue savings. 
 POTENTIAL GAME CHANGERS It seems hard to believe that over the long haul the introduction of electronic medical records will not save substantial money. It would help eliminate the costly repetition of tests, and prevent medication errors that harm patients and lead to costly hospitalization. But it takes money to get started (Mr. Obama's stimulus package calls for $50 billion over five years) and time to overcome physicians' reluctance. Savings in the first decade, if any, are likely to be small. 
 So, too, it seems likely that a stimulus investment of $1.1 billion in comparative effectiveness research to gauge which medicines and procedures work best is likely to pay off in future decades.
 The approach has been wrongly portrayed as an effort by government bureaucrats to dictate ''cookbook'' medicine that will prevent doctors from doing what's best for their patients and lead to rationing of care. More than 60 physicians' groups have urged Congress to make comparative effectiveness research an important component of reform. They believe the information would help doctors and patients understand which treatments work best. In some cases, the better treatments might be more expensive, in others less. Either way, patients benefit.
 And so it goes, through such ideas as changing Medicare's payment incentives to encourage better care not just more care, and to encourage new arrangements of doctors and hospitals that might control costs and provide more coordinated care than the fee-for-service system does. All will take time to bear fruit.
 TAXES One way to keep deficits in check would be to impose taxes within the health care system instead of more broadly, which should ensure that revenues increase at the rate of health care inflation. A tax on the value of an employer's contribution to insurance could lead beneficiaries to choose cheaper policies and think twice before undergoing costly tests. We have been leery of recommending a tax that would affect many workers, but a tax on very expensive plans might make sense. 
 OTHER IDEASThe administration seems to have scoured the health policy literature for ideas, and its proposals reflect the thinking of the nation's leading experts. Most of these ideas would first be tried on a small scale in Medicare -- to see if they reduced costs while improving or at least maintaining the quality of care -- before being adopted on a wide scale in government programs. Ideas that work for Medicare would presumably migrate out to the private sector. 
 We believe that some of the reforms in pending legislation could be strengthened. Both public and private insurance plans, for example, should be allowed -- not forbidden -- to base reimbursement policies on comparative effectiveness findings. But for the most part, the nation is embarking on a long-term experiment to see what works, so small-scale tests and pilot programs seem appropriate. 
 THE OVERSEERWith so much uncertainty, it seems imperative to ensure that the government can change course rapidly to drop approaches that do not work and expand approaches that do. Proposals have been made to create an independent commission of experts, responsible to either the president or Congress, to perform this function at a step removed from the distorting influences of political lobbying. 
 It is a good idea, if the commission has sufficient power and resources to do an effective job. The panel should be directed to pursue both cost reduction and quality improvement. It should be given cost reduction targets to meet and a mandate to impose across-the-board cuts in Medicare if it falls short. It should have sufficient resources to evaluate and sponsor studies, a membership beholden to no special interest, and be insulated from political pressure by requiring Congress to approve or reject recommendations as a package, without fighting over individual items of interest to lobbyists. 
 WRONG-HEADED CRITICISM The Republican Party has started a campaign charging that President Obama is conducting a dangerous and reckless experiment in health care reform that will damage the economy, kill jobs, drive up health care costs, and harm patients. That is a bit hard to take after the Bush administration's reckless squandering of government surpluses with tax cuts for wealthy Americans that cost $1.7 trillion over 10 years and an expensive Medicare drug benefit that is projected to cost almost $1 trillion over the next 10 years, without making provisions to cover their costs.
 The Obama administration is paying meticulous attention to the need for offsets and new revenues. Most important, it seems headed in the right direction to finally slow the rate of growth in health care spending -- a beast that has defied past efforts to tame it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); US PRESIDENTS (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); PETER ORSZAG (56%); MAX BAUCUS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



56 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 5655 words

HEADLINE: The Making of an Iran Policy

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN. 
Roger Cohen is a columnist for The New York Times and The International Herald Tribune.

 BODY:
The silent protest began in Imam Khomeini Square in front of the forbidding Ministry of Telecommunications, which was busy cutting off cellphones but powerless to stop the murmured rage coursing through Tehran. Six days had passed since Iran's disputed June 12 election, but the fury that brought three million people onto the streets the previous Monday showed no sign of abating. ''Silence will win against bullets,'' a woman beside me whispered. Her name was Zahra. She wore a green headband -- the color adopted by the campaign of the defeated reformist candidate Mir Hussein Moussavi -- and she held a banner saying, ''This land is my land.'' The words captured the popular conviction that not only had President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad stolen votes, but he also had made off with Iran's dignity. Slowly the vast crowd began to move north. No chant issued from the throng, only distilled indignation. A young man asked me where I was from. When I told him New York, he shot back: ''Give our regards to freedom. It's coming right here!'' 
 In those giddy postelectoral days, anything seemed possible, even the arrival of liberty, or at least more of it, in the 30-year-old Islamic Republic. Through the swirl of events -- the huge crowds, the beatings and the sirens, the tear gas and black smoke -- the core issues were simple. Iranians felt cheated. They wanted their votes to count. They knew that no genuine victor with two-thirds of the vote need resort to brutality or fear a recount. Sometimes they asked me if the United Nations would help them; often they asked if America would. It was their way of saying, with fierce emotion, that the morality of the Iranian story, its right and wrong, was plain.
 But it was precisely emotion, and notions of good and evil, that the Obama administration had spent the previous months trying to drain from the charged U.S.-Iranian relationship. Sobriety dominated the ideas of the president's Iran team, as I'd learned before I left in conversations with senior officials at the State Department and the National Security Council. The Bush administration's ideologically driven axis-of-evil approach to Iran had failed. Tehran had prospered by expanding its regional influence and was accelerating its nuclear program. The Obama administration believed it was time to seek normalization through a new, cooler look at a nation critical to U.S. strategic interests -- from advancing Israeli-Arab peace negotiations to a successful withdrawal from Iraq.
 ''Who they select as leader in Iran is their prerogative, and there's nothing we can do to control that,'' Ray Takeyh, an Iranian-born adviser to Dennis Ross, the veteran Mideast negotiator who has been working on Iran for the Obama administration, told me before the election. ''We're trying to deal with Iran as an entity, a state, rather than privileging one faction or another. We want to inject a degree of rationality into this relationship, reduce it to two nations with some differences and some common interests -- get beyond the incendiary rhetoric.'' Takeyh's words reminded me of Ross, who in his book ''Statecraft'' defined the term's first principles as, ''Have clear objectives, tailor them to fit reality.''
 But now, as the crowd streaming before me demonstrated, Iran's reality had changed. In his inaugural address, President Obama said: ''To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history, but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist.'' Seldom had a fist been clenched more unequivocally, dissent silenced more harshly or deceit practiced with more brazenness than in Iran after June 12.
 Still, Obama's Iran team -- Ross; the courtly under secretary of state William Burns; the dapper deputy national security adviser Tom Donilon; the studious senior N.S.C. official Puneet Talwar (the only one, other than Takeyh, who has been to Iran); the hard-charging organization man Denis McDonough, who controls strategic communication at the White House -- faced a difficult choice between sticking with strategic outreach to the regime and questioning its legitimacy in the name of human rights. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, whose instincts on Iran have always been more hawkish than the president's, ''was pushing for a harder line sooner after the June 12 vote,'' a Mideast expert close to her told me last month. She was supported by her friend Joe Biden, the vice president. They did not prevail. The tone was cautious; although Obama's denunciations of the clampdown grew stronger as it worsened, the extended hand, which had proved more unsettling to Iran than all the Bush administration bluster, was not withdrawn.
 When I returned from Iran, I went to see one of these senior officials to ask what it had been like making that call. Painful, was the response. Every day, in the election's aftermath, the team met and conference-called. ''It is difficult to weigh all the different considerations,'' this official told me. ''But given the profoundly serious consequences of an Iranian regime that acquires a nuclear-weapons capability, the judgment in the end was that it was important to follow through on the offer of direct engagement.'' He noted that this offer had been ''signaled clearly in the course of the campaign'' by Obama, and developed since. In other words, this goes deep with the president. He's driving Iran policy. The Iran gambit lies close to the core of his refashioned global strategy, America's ''new era of engagement.''
 Just how far Obama is ready to go in engagement's name has become clearer in Iran. At the time of that Thursday demonstration, almost a week after the election, the toughest thing he had found to say about the turmoil was that the suppression of peaceful dissent ''is of concern to me and it's of concern to the American people.'' He had also equated Ahmadinejad with Moussavi, from the U.S. national-security standpoint, because both support the nuclear program, even as people died for the greater openness that Moussavi espoused.
 A sobered America is back in the realpolitik game. A favored phrase in the Iran team goes, ''It is what it is.'' Now the question is whether such an approach can yield results. Can Ross honor his own precept to match objectives with ''available means''? To the nuclear clock has been added a democracy clock, complicating every diplomatic equation. An Iran of mullahs and nukes has morphed, for many Americans, into the Iran of beautiful, young Neda Agha-Soltan, cut down with a single shot while leaving a June 20 demonstration, a murder caught on video that went viral. Whatever Obama's realism -- and it's as potent as his instinct for the middle ground -- a president on whom so much youthful idealism has been projected can scarcely ignore the Neda effect.
 The Obama administration's strong conviction, as several officials told me, is that Ahmadinejad's election was fraudulent. But in the American interest, it is ready to overlook that and to talk. Restored relations with the Soviet Union came in 1933 at the time of the Great Terror, and with China in 1972 in the middle of the Cultural Revolution. But of course the bloodshed then -- of an altogether different dimension -- was not being YouTubed around the globe.
 One of the first people I saw in Iran was Saeed Leylaz, an economist close to Moussavi. (Like many of Iran's reformist intellectuals, Leylaz is now in jail.) He told me Obama's outreach -- his recognition of the Islamic Republic and pledge of ''mutual respect'' -- had affected the campaign, unsettling hard-liners. ''Radicalism creates radicalism,'' Leylaz said. He was referring to the way President Bush's talk of Iran as evil opened the way for Ahmadinejad to build a global brand of sorts through lambasting U.S. arrogance.
 By contrast, a black American president of partly Muslim descent reaching out to the Islamic world -- and demonstrating, by his very election, the possibility of change -- had placed the Iranian regime on the defensive. One conservative Iranian official put it this way to Karim Sadjadpour, an Iran expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace: ''If Iran can't make nice with a U.S. president named Barack Hussein Obama who's preaching mutual respect and sending us greetings, it's pretty clear the problem lies in Tehran, not Washington.''
 Tom Donilon, the deputy national-security adviser, told me in Washington: ''Engagement was pressure. There's no doubt about it.''
 The Obama administration -- as Donilon, Takeyh and others made clear to me -- had been deliberately agnostic on the election outcome and had tried to finesse electoral uncertainty by directing its diplomatic overture chiefly at Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader. In early May, Obama sent Khamenei a secret personal letter, as The Washington Times reported. The letter proposed a framework for talks on the nuclear issue (which Khamenei is believed to control) and regional security. I was reliably informed by more than one knowledgeable American that Khamenei had answered in writing, but the reply was disappointing. Still, it was a response -- and Khamenei had already replied in March to a conciliatory message sent by Obama on Nowruz, the Persian new year, by saying, ''Should you change, our behavior will change, too.'' The administration was geared to bring its engagement policy to fruition after the June 12 election.
 The two things it had not planned for, however, were a situation of near-insurrection and Khamenei's shift out of the arbiter's lofty cover into explicit alignment with Ahmadinejad. Yet here, all of a sudden, was a situation where Obama's outreach may have helped throw the Islamic Republic into crisis, leaving it more divided than at any time since immediately after the revolution in 1979. So it's perhaps no wonder that Obama responded cautiously, clearly trying, with difficulty, to adapt a set strategy to an explosive situation, not wanting to cut the slender thread established to Khamenei but increasingly outraged by what he saw.
 Some protesters I met on the streets of Tehran pointedly asked me, ''Where's Obama?'' Trying to rethink things, it seems. Khamenei's own shift was cemented in his ferocious sermon a week after the election, when he embraced Ahmadinejad and tried to blame the whole bloody fiasco on ''evil'' Western agents. This stance undermined the thinking Ross and others had put forward in their thorough pre-election review of Iran policy. ''The theory was always that you deal with the supreme leader because Ahmadinejad is not the ultimate decision maker,'' said a senior official who has been instrumental in formulating Iran policy. ''But then he takes Ahmadinejad's side. You still have to make the effort, the ground has to be covered, but it's hard to be very optimistic.''
 How long Iran's disarray will persist is unclear -- certainly weeks, probably months, perhaps longer. It is possible that Khamenei, come the fall, may see in outreach to the United States a means to regain support in a country where whoever delivers normalization with Washington will be a popular hero. It is possible that Ahmadinejad will bring moderates into his government, to be formed in August, with a similar conciliatory aim. One key indicator will be whether he keeps Saeed Jalili, described to me as a chief architect of the clampdown, as his nuclear negotiator. If he does, talks are probably a waste of time. It is even a remote possibility that Ahmadinejad will be removed in the name of reconciliation. But one thing is certain: Iran's upheaval has made Obama's already ambitious goal of engagement far more arduous, and it reinforced the darkest views of Iran's true nuclear ambitions, even as it chews up limited time.
 There was always an orphaned feel to the Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary of State for the Gulf and Southwest Asia. It was located just past the main entrance to the State Department in a string of tawdry rooms, a long way from the gilded mirrors and chandeliers up on the seventh floor, where top officials congregate. For four months starting in late February, Dennis Ross made this dun-colored warren his home. Then, in late June, he forsook one opaque title for another: Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for the Central Region.
 The ''central region,'' a U.S. diplomatic neologism, includes the central locus of American concerns for war and peace: the danger lands between Israel and Pakistan. In his new post, Ross is moving from State to the National Security Council, from Hillary Clinton's universe to Obama's. For now he's shuttling between the two. That's a familiar form of motion for a go-between who devoted years to knocking Israeli and Palestinian heads together in a vain quest for peace. As he goes, Ross, who is 60, nurses a late-life obsession that never surfaced -- indeed, was artfully hidden -- in the descriptions of his two jobs: Iran. But beneath the White House and Foggy Bottom circumlocutions, Iran is Ross's new thing.
 Ross, like almost every serving U.S. diplomat, has never set foot in Iran. Thirty years of severed relations since the 1979 Iranian revolution have put any firsthand experience at a premium. But Ross is skilled at circumventing obstacles. With his mild, blue-eyed gaze, he is a survivor. In fact he's one of the ultimate Washington survivors, having glided from Republican to Democratic administrations for more than a quarter-century. As it became clear in recent years that Iran, still marginal during the Camp David negotiations in 2000, had moved toward the hub of Middle Eastern matters, Ross moved with it. He has his finger to the wind. He also has a deep intellectual commitment to peacemaking and Israeli security, issues on which an Iran with a fast-growing nuclear program now impinges with centrifugal intensity.
 ''Iran is sucking up the oxygen, it's everywhere in town, to the point that even Arab-Israeli issues seem somehow derivative,'' Aaron David Miller, a former diplomat who worked for many years alongside Ross, told me. ''And Dennis saw the handwriting on the wall.''
 Part of that handwriting was that nonengagement had failed. Iran, for nigh on two generations of U.S. diplomats, has been the great black hole. ''Diplomacy is conducted face to face between human beings, but I worked for three years, day in, day out, on Iran and never got to meet an Iranian diplomat,'' Nicholas Burns, who was under secretary of state from 2005 to 2008 (and is no relation to his successor as under secretary, William Burns), told me. ''The policy did not work.''
 Over eight Bush years, Iran became stronger. American intervention had rid it of its Taliban enemy to the east and the hated Saddam Hussein to the west. Iran installed 7,200 centrifuges, produced more than a ton of low-enriched uranium and made a decisive step toward the threshold nuclear status that could prompt an Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear installations. The hawks of the Bush administration threatened, but their aims, in Ross's phrase, were not matched to means. Already at war in neighboring Iraq and Afghanistan, the U.S. military had no stomach for a third front in the Muslim world -- a calculus not lost on Iranian leaders.
 I went to see the Ross team, still in the State Department warren, on my return from Tehran. Ross talks in an even patter that bears a laid-back trace of his native California. He has a penchant for intricate phrases like: If they're not responding, nonresponse would become a response. An engaging sincerity and a smile offset this highfalutin streak. His message to me in March was: we have a ticking clock to armed conflict; our former policy has failed; so let's see if we can't identify a set of their objectives not completely incompatible with ours. Now he wanted to hear all about the tumult I had witnessed. His response was measured: the president has laid out a path, we have to be judicious, not make a leap in one direction or another, and so put the onus on Iran. (Ross declined my request for an on-the-record interview.)
 Balance is something this meticulous diplomat prizes. But a recurrent issue with Ross, who embraced the Jewish faith after being raised in a nonreligious home by a Jewish mother and Catholic stepfather, has been whether he is too close to the American Jewish community and Israel to be an honest broker with Iran or Arabs. Miller, after years of working with Ross, concluded in a book that he ''had an inherent tendency to see the world of Arab-Israeli politics first from Israel's vantage point rather than that of the Palestinians.'' Another former senior State Department official, who requested anonymity because he didn't want to jeopardize his relationship with the administration, told me, ''Ross's bad habit is preconsultation with the Israelis.'' Ross earned $421,775 from speeches last year, of which more than half came from Israeli and Jewish groups, according to a financial-disclosure statement. 
 But Ross has argued in his books that his passion for peace guides him in an evenhanded attempt to pursue every possible diplomatic avenue. ''He's the most intellectually flexible, thoughtful and pragmatic person I have met,'' Takeyh told me. ''I've never had a conversation with him where he says we shouldn't consider something because it would cross some Israeli red line. That's just not where we are. The idea that he's just looking for engagement with Iran to tick some box before moving to harsh measures is just wrong and fraudulent.''
 Israel, which sees an existential threat in a nuclear Iran, has made clear that its patience is limited. The Ross team does not think Israelis are bluffing. They believe Israel views Iran in life-and-death terms. Israeli officials have argued that they don't believe Iran would ever be crazy enough to nuke them but do believe the change in the balance of power with a nuclear or near-nuclear Iran could be so decisive that Jews would begin to leave Israel.
 So Ross's old and new obsessions -- Israel and Iran -- have merged in a perilous countdown. As he moves to the N.S.C. to work alongside his old friend Tom Donilon, he faces a fundamental question: can this baggage-encumbered veteran who wrote an 800-page tome on Israel-Palestine called ''The Missing Peace'' overcome ingrained habits and sympathies to uncover what's been missing? Obama is trying to reinvent Middle East thinking. He's questioning America's uncritical stance toward Israel, drawing Syria in and pursuing the Iran gambit against great odds. Conventional thinking will not deliver what the president seeks.
 The odyssey that has now led Ross to the N.S.C. has been bizarre. His original appointment at State was a fiasco. Weeks before the inauguration, an internal memo from the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, where he was working, was leaked. It said Ross ''has accepted an invitation to join the Obama administration as ambassador at large and senior adviser to Secretary of State-designate Hillary Clinton. In that seventh-floor job, designed especially for him, Ambassador Ross will be the secretary's top adviser on a range of Middle East issues, from the Arab-Israeli peace process to Iran.''
 Clinton was displeased. The no-drama Obama team felt jostled. But Obama owed Ross one. He was influential during the campaign in bringing around the American Jewish community.
 For a month after the inauguration, Ross hovered in limbo. The eventual fudge was the Iran dossier at State, disguised in a broader job description, and communicated in a stealth nocturnal announcement. But William Burns, the former ambassador to Moscow, whom Obama had met and liked in Russia on his first overseas trip as a senator, had already taken on Iran as under secretary of state.
 The situation was uncomfortable. When I asked at the White House in April if Ross was the point man on Iran, I met with the retort that the address for Iran at the State Department was clear: Bill Burns. When Burns -- who worked under Ross on Middle East issues during James Baker's tenure as secretary of state and now found himself senior to him -- went to London in April to brief allies on the new U.S.-Iran policy, he did not take Ross with him. Instead, he traveled with Talwar, the National Security Council official working on Iran. One Iranian-American sometimes consulted by the administration told me he'd had calls from the White House, asking, ''Will the Iranians be prepared to meet with Ross?''
 That was a reasonable question given Ross's well-known ties with the American Jewish community and the sometimes hawkish views on Iran -- including endorsing a report that called for Obama to ''begin augmenting the military lever right away'' -- that he expressed before his appointment. (Ross also argued at other times for unconditional engagement backed by the threat of draconian sanctions.) When I was in Iran in February, a conservative newspaper editor, Hossein Shariatmadari, told me, ''If you want to signal a hard line and no change toward Iran, nobody does that better for you than Ross.''
 At State, there were also issues. Ross, who assembled an eight-member crew in his first-floor office, was far from Clinton's inner circle up on the seventh floor. She made it clear from the outset she wanted a fresh Mideast team. ''He was not a happy camper,'' Martin Indyk, a former ambassador to Israel, told me, referring to Ross. 
 But tensions were contained within the no-drama collegiality that is Obama's diktat. Clinton has worked hard to bury her own Iran differences with the president, to avoid getting Powellized and to be what Indyk calls ''the good, disciplined lieutenant.'' While calling Iran's postelection actions ''deplorable and unacceptable'' in a foreign-policy speech on July 15, Clinton said: ''We remain ready to engage with Iran, but the time for action is now. The offer will not remain open indefinitely.''
 Her Iran role, however, is clearly ancillary. Policy is being driven from the White House. McDonough told me the president asks about Iran ''on a very regular basis and is very personally involved in this policy.'' Now Obama will have Ross close by. The clincher to the move came when Obama's June visit to Saudi Arabia proved disappointing. He got neither the Saudi help on Israel-Palestine nor the Saudi acceptance of prisoners from Guantanamo Bay that he had hoped for. The conclusion: more heft and Middle East experience, of the Ross variety, was needed at the N.S.C. Obama called Clinton personally to tell her Ross was moving.
 The transfer was a neat solution. It took Ross out of the front line in any eventual bilateral talks with Iran -- a role that Ross had hoped to play but that the White House never saw him in. It got him out of Clinton and Burns's immediate orbit, where his role was uneasy. Sure, the move marooned some new recruits in the first-floor State Department warren, irritated some National Security Council staff members who got a superior they didn't feel they needed and worried the Mideast envoy, George Mitchell. But whoever said government, even Obama government, was not messy?
 In Tehran, just before the election, I sat down with Nasser Hadian, who once taught at Columbia and is now at Tehran University. He's an influential thinker on foreign affairs who got to know Ross while he was in the United States. Hadian told me that Iran has taken Obama's outreach seriously. Hadian has been part of a group of foreign-policy experts, convened by Mahmoud Vaezi at the Center for Strategic Research in Tehran, who have been meeting every two weeks to review how to respond to the U.S. offer. Vaezi prepares reports that are submitted to Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, the reformist former president who has been bitterly critical of the June 12 vote, and to Khamenei himself.
 The discussions, I was told, have been detailed, including a review of who might lead any eventual bilateral negotiations from the Iranian side. One name that has been proposed is Ali Akbar Velayati, a former foreign minister who is a top adviser to Khamenei. In this light, the fact that Velayati praised Obama after the election for remaining quiet about it is interesting. Velayati also said, ''America accepts a nuclear Iran, but Britain and France cannot stand a nuclear Iran.'' This is a new language, however wide of the truth. The bizarre official lambasting of Britain -- and demonizing of the BBC rather than the Voice of America -- can be seen as the Iranian authorities trying to keep their U.S. options open.
 ''My argument in all the meetings has been: You have to go for full normalization and comprehensive engagement on all the issues,'' Hadian told me. ''Not a U.S. consulate in Tehran, or the nuclear issue in isolation; that won't work. And because I know we cannot normalize unless Israeli concerns are addressed, I've argued that Ross would be an important assurance, someone able to convince the American Jewish lobby that any eventual agreement is workable.'' That view, he suggested, had gained some traction in Tehran.
 Hadian said Iran has looked at everyone in the policy mix -- Burns, Ross, Talwar, Vali Nasr (an Iranian-American aide to Richard Holbrooke, the State Department envoy), Gary Samore (a nonproliferation expert at the N.S.C.), Tony Blinken (a national security adviser to Vice President Joe Biden) -- and the general feeling was positive. ''What Obama has already done for the United States in the Muslim world is unbelievable,'' he said. ''It is not easy for anyone here to attack him.''
 But Hadian is a reformist who backed Moussavi. The Iran he talked about has not disappeared postelection -- Velayati is as influential as ever -- but it's shaken. Khamenei, who just turned 70, knows he is vulnerable right now; it's far from clear he'd be ready to negotiate from vulnerability. His suspicion of the United States is deep; anti-Americanism has worked for him over a 20-year rule. ''Khamenei still believes the United States wants to go back to the patron-client relationship and the nuclear issue is being used for that,'' Sadjadpour, of the Carnegie Endowment, told me. Even if he chooses to talk, would it not be in pursuit of a familiar Iranian tactic -- stringing things out, as the centrifuges spin, until cracks appear among the Western allies, or China and Russia come to Tehran's defense? 
 One thing is clear: Iran is no position to talk right now. It has no functioning national-security apparatus as its leaders scramble to shore up the regime. The republican pillar of the Islamic Republic has been destroyed to salvage a hard-line rightist order, but the price of this violent gamble in terms of lost support, internal division and external criticism has been immense. Iran has morphed in the global consciousness, to the point that U2 and Madonna have adopted the cause of Iranian democracy. With oil down and opposition up, Iran's regional ascendancy is stalled or already in reverse.
 On April 29, in Dammam, in Saudi Arabia's eastern province, Ross sat down with King Abdullah. He talked to a skeptical monarch about the Obama administration's engagement policy with Iran -- and talked and talked and talked. When the king finally got to speak, according to one U.S. official fully briefed on the exchange, he began by telling Ross: ''I am a man of action. Unlike you, I prefer not to talk a lot.'' Then he posed several pointed questions about U.S. policy toward Iran: What is your goal? What will you do if this does not work? What will you do if the Chinese and the Russians are not with you? How will you deal with Iran's nuclear program if there is not a united response? Ross, a little flustered, tried to explain that policy was still being fleshed out.
 The exchange was a useful reminder that the Obama administration is going to have to work very hard, even with its allies, to present a united front to Iran. Saudi Arabia may be full of millennial Arab suspicion of the Persians, and Ross may have all sorts of ideas about how the Saudis could use their petropower to undermine the Iranians (including by selling more oil to China), but the fact is the Saudis have had normal relations with Iran since 1991 and will always be more comfortable making life difficult for a Jewish state than for a fellow Muslim nation.
 If the Saudis are difficult, they pale by comparison with the Russians and Chinese, who are partners with the U.S. in the six-power effort (known as P5+1) to curb Iran's nuclear program. Indeed, what looms for the Obama administration is a core test, over Iran, of its new foreign-policy doctrine. This was defined by Hillary Clinton as follows: ''We will lead by inducing greater cooperation among a greater number of actors and reducing competition, tilting the balance away from a multipolar world and toward a multipartner world.''
 But for all Obama's efforts to multipartner -- by reviving the relationship with Russia and a similar outreach to the Chinese -- it is far from clear that Moscow and Beijing do not still see America's Iran problem as a useful tool in building a multipolar world less dominated by Washington. Getting them to impose sanctions that really bite will be difficult. Iran is awash in Chinese products -- trade has boomed in recent years -- and it supplies 15 percent of China's oil.
 ''It's going to be very tough,'' one senior administration official told me. ''The Russian calculus about Iran is only partly about their relationship with Iran and partly about their view of us. Everyone agrees it's not a great idea for this Iranian regime to acquire a nuclear weapon, but there's not the same urgency we have, and certainly not the same as the Israelis have.''
 There has always been what Donilon called a ''back end'' to Obama's effort to talk with Iran, whether in the multilateral framework or in the dialogue he wants to establish to take the poison out of U.S.-Iranian relations. The back end is punitive sanctions, in the event engagement fails, that would change the Iranian calculus on further uranium refinement: cutting off Iranian banks' access to credit; extending that isolation to insurance and shipping; stopping refined petroleum products from reaching Iran. For all that to happen, Obama will need to prove his outreach is more than rhetoric and that other nations have bought into the notion that a near-boycott of Iran should be imposed.
 The administration seems to believe that Iran, as one official put it, ''is not 10 feet tall right now'' and that means of suasion short of this dubious sanctions route still exist. It's working to prize Syria away from the Iranian orbit, adopt a more pragmatic tone toward Hezbollah and Hamas and change Tehran's risk calculus by talking of a sharp upgrade of the defense capacities of allies in the region -- all with the objective of further unsettling and isolating a shaken government. Clinton has returned to talk of ''crippling action'' against Iran -- not heard since April, when she spoke of ''crippling sanctions'' -- and late last month introduced the notion of a ''defense umbrella'' in the region that would make Iran less secure, even with a nuclear weapon.
 The latter phrase displeased the Israelis: they viewed it as suggesting that the administration is now more focused on deterrence than prevention. What Obama's precise tolerance threshold is for the Iranian nuclear program is in fact unclear. Officially, the administration still insists on the ''zero option'' -- no enrichment, no reprocessing, no sensitive technology. But I heard talk of nonzero options -- say a small enrichment facility for research operating under intrusive International Atomic Energy Agency inspection -- if Iran makes a convincing effort to gain Western confidence and can demonstrate that a fuel cycle it controls will have only peaceful ends. It is also clear to me that a military strike on Iran by Israel is Obama's least-favored outcome: it would inflame the region he's trying to quiet and sabotage his outreach to the Muslim world, while perhaps only delaying Iran's nuclear program a year or two. So deterrence may indeed be the administration's reluctant bottom line. The president also has at his disposal a covert program inherited from the Bush administration aimed at sabotaging Iran's nuclear program by penetrating its supply chain and undermining its computer systems. This has been under review, but could, if pushed forward, be used as an argument to the Israelis to hold off any military action.
 Would Israel attack Iran against express U.S. objections? Opinion is divided. The Ross team does not rule that out. Indyk thinks not. ''Remember, Israel has second-strike capability,'' he told me. ''It wouldn't be easy to live with an Iran that's a virtual nuclear power, but at the end of the day, it's not a complete disaster.''
 Normalization with Iran is a heady idea, comparable to the China breakthrough of 1972. It would create a far less dangerous world. The history-making idea captivated Obama, and it lingers still. Engagement remains on the table, and its unsettling effect on Iran's domestic politics seem likely to endure. But since June 12, prospects of a U.S.-Iranian rapprochement have darkened. The possible explosion that now looms in Iran, were Israel to attack, could assume devastating proportions and expose America to heightened danger. Obama has staked a lot -- arguably his whole ''smart power'' doctrine -- on preventing that.
 For Ross, diplomacy is not just about realized goals, but about what you prevent, what you limit, what you contain, what you defuse. Successful diplomacy will take more than Obama-doctrine outreach. It will require a new form of American power to work, in avoiding the worst even if it cannot attain the dream.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE JPEG REVOLUTION: Images of the June uprisings in Iran, captured byamateur photographers. The protests unsettled not only the hard-liners inTehran but also the Obama administration, which has to make policy fora situation that changes as frequently as a Twitter feed.(pg. MM38)
 (pg. MM39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); IRANIAN ELECTION PROTESTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); RELIGION (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); PEACE PROCESS (62%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); MIR HOSSEIN MOUSAVI (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



57 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: The Shuffle President

 BODY:
In his essay, Matt Bai proposes that President Obama's message loses effectiveness because he is addressing so many issues at once, forcing constituents to shift their attention from issue to issue instead of staying focused on singular presidential achievements. Bai would better serve his readers and our nation if he were able to discern that there are, indeed, major themes tying together what seem to be disconnected issues. Our issues are not a disparate shuffle. They have a salient common theme and we need our leaders and our writers to help us stay focused on the interrelationship and connectedness of our society. The shuffling of news subjects from one to the next without widening the vision a bit and extending the pen to show the relationships is a greater problem. 
 BARRY MCKENNA Port Townsend, Wash.
 As a member of Generation Y who has spent my adult life downloading individual songs and listening to them on shuffle, I appreciated Matt Bai's take on President Obama's detour from the linear governing style of past presidents as particularly relevant to younger Americans.
 I wish Bai had gone a step further in this trajectory, instead of continuing to silo the problems of health care, climate change and economic crisis. While the author views these issues as competing for the attention of the president and the public, the story that is waiting to be told is the one that unites these issues as symptoms of our decades' long failure to create moderate, forward-thinking systems that are built on concepts of sustainability and prevention. None can be solved on its own; led by the ''shuffle'' generation, we must take the leap -- a paradigm shift toward sustainable, systemic solutions to all of these problems together.
 ALIZA R. WASSERMAN Cambridge, Mass.
 Matt Bai's essay minimizes what President Obama is doing. He is not shuffling through the issues. He has looked at the mess we are in and is going about addressing each problem, knowing that picking and choosing the most easily solvable is not an option. I don't see the same danger in this that Bai does. Rather, I'm thankful that we elected a president who has the ability and fortitude to do what is necessary.
 The president's willingness to tackle the problems that have been ignored for years is a rare commodity. Neat political narratives in which one issue is addressed before moving on to the next are nice for journalists (perhaps because they are easier to cover), but not for us who are mired in the mess that these problems create. Personally, I vote for the shuffle approach.
 CHRISTINE BRENNAN Catonsville, Md.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); JOURNALISM (75%); GENERATION Y (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (74%); WASHINGTON, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



58 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; BATTLEGROUND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: The Lobbying Web

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD. 
John Harwood is co-author with Gerald F. Seib of ''Pennsylvania Avenue: Profiles in Backroom Power,'' published by Random House in paperback this year.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 PRESIDENT OBAMA entered the White House challenging Washington's political culture and promising a retooled health care system. Now the persistence of the former threatens his ability to deliver the latter.
 Mr. Obama's jampacked domestic agenda, from new rules for Wall Street to limits on carbon emissions, has set off a full-scale lobbying brawl involving the ''narrow interests'' he derided in his Inaugural Address. The health care fight represents the biggest brawl of all.
 The $133 million in lobbying expenditures by health industry interests in the second quarter of 2009 alone -- the most of any sector by far, according to the Center for Responsive Politics -- hardly sounds like the change Mr. Obama or his supporters had in mind. And in fact the strategic course the White House has chosen may have had the unintended effect of increasing the breadth and complexity of the battle involving those interests. 
 There are two reasons for that. The first is that Mr. Obama's aides, having studied the failure of the health overhaul effort in 1993-94, decided to defer to Congress in assembling legislation rather than hand lawmakers a specific proposal as President Bill Clinton had done. That made Congress the pressure point from the start. And individual members of Congress, lacking the president's clout or bully pulpit, are easier for lobbyists to influence. 
 Second, the Congressional route has yielded different proposals in various committees rather than a single administration plan. That, in turn, has muffled the clarity of the administration's advocacy, while accelerating the lobbying scramble on Capitol Hill as affected interests fan out in pursuit of multiple targets. 
 ''In 1993, it was more of a 'yes or no' thing,'' said Howard Paster, then Mr. Clinton's White House lobbyist and now executive vice president the WPP Group, parent company to a host of top Washington lobbying firms. ''Now it's 'yes, but,' or 'no, but' or 'on which bill?' You have to go retail -- committee by committee.''
 Certainly, shifts in the broader political environment have improved Mr. Obama's chance of success, no matter what lobbyists do, and the legislative push did make progress last week. He won the 2008 election with a mandate for change. The remorseless march of health inflation since 1993, by threatening to bankrupt government, businesses and American families alike, has increased unease about the status quo.
 Thus major health providers like hospitals and drug companies have reached deals with the White House pledging savings to help finance expanded coverage. The health insurance industry, which ran the famous ''Harry and Louise'' TV spots attacking the Clinton plan, now runs ads declaring, ''Let's fix health care.'' The American Medical Association, perennial foe of ''socialized medicine,'' has endorsed the plan of House Democratic leaders. 
 ''In 1993-94, you had the whole of K Street united in raising concerns about the consequences of reform,'' said Karen Ignagni, chief executive of the insurers' lobby America's Health Insurance Plans. ''The opposite is true today.''
 Because of the economic threat posed by the current system's woes, she added, ''What unites most of the large organizations is concern about the consequences of not enacting reform.'' 
 Indeed, a preponderance of TV ads so far in the health care fight have carried a pro-reform message. But in 2009 the air wars are less relevant because of the continuing diffusion of media outlets.
 They are also misleading.
 That's because industry interests, while professing support for Mr. Obama's effort in general, are aggressively pressing their objections to particular provisions. The pharmaceutical industry, which spent $68 million on second-quarter lobbying, has worked to extend patent protection for biologic drugs beyond the levels favored by some reform advocates, and to limit the use of price comparisons in studies comparing the effectiveness of different treatments.
 Health insurers have lobbied fiercely against a government-run ''public option'' for health insurance, an Obama priority that key lawmakers have moved to dilute or drop altogether. Their efforts so upset the speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, a strong advocate of the public option, that last week she condemned insurance industry leaders as ''villains.''
 Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders can use such language to push back against health industry lobbyists; it appeals to deep public skepticism about special interests in the capital, especially on the political left. At a focus group sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania's Annenberg Public Policy Center last week among independent voters in Towson, Md., a rental agent, Remi Brooke, labeled special interests in Washington as ''organized crime''; a graphic designer, Louis Moriconi, added, ''We're really at the mercy of the power groups, the lobbyists and the financiers.'' Both voted for Mr. Obama in 2008.
 Yet other strains of public opinion play into the hands of Mr. Obama's adversaries. Recent polls show mounting concern over levels of government spending and deficits -- and fear that hasty action on health care may add to the problem. Republicans, some conservative Democrats, and industry opponents find a ready audience among Americans for their calls to delay. 
 After conducting the focus group of independent voters, the Democratic pollster Mr. Hart concluded: ''These people are just saying, 'slow down. Mr. President.' '' That, in fact, has happened, with House and Senate leaders scuttling Mr. Obama's call for floor action before the August Congressional recess.
 The question now is whether the delay will scuttle Mr. Obama's ambitions altogether, by allowing opponents of action to turn up the heat when lawmakers return home to their districts. Already, conservative critics on cable television, radio and the Internet have helped create a surprising volume of public criticism so quickly after Mr. Obama's sweeping election victory. 
 That public criticism represents another tool for the administration's partisan foes and lobbyists alike. Compared with 1993-94, there's ''much less health provider hostility, and much greater citizen hostility,'' said Representative Jim Cooper of Tennessee, one of the so-called Blue Dogs in the House seeking greater cost controls.
 The volume of incoming messages ''is about wearing out our 12 interns, plus my regular staff,'' Mr. Cooper concluded. ''It's probably going to be a rocky August for everybody.''
 Liberal activists insist the story will end differently than it did for Mr. Clinton. Richard Kirsch, who directs the liberal lobbying coalition Health Care for America NOW, said field organizers in 43 states were prepared to ensure that advocates for reform were heard in the scores of town meetings that lawmakers will conduct.
 ''This time the reform community is ready to go,'' added Ralph Neas, a former civil rights lobbyist who now heads the bipartisan National Coalition on Health Care. That includes efforts to mobilize ''grass-tops'' opinion leaders in individual Congressional districts, as well as ''grass-roots'' voters.
 Another danger, however, is an erosion in the expectation of Congressional action. This expectation has encouraged key health industry players, in Mr. Kirsch's words, to try to ''thread the needle to get reform passed that protects their profits.'' If prospects dim, that dynamic could reverse, tempting industry groups to abandon the effort altogether -- forcing the White House to lobby the lobbyists to remain on board. But no one is counting on any diminution in the determination or ability of health care lobbyists to make their case on Capitol Hill. 
 Mr. Obama promised in the campaign to limit the influence of lobbyists, and instituted new restrictions on their ability to join his administration. Washington veterans say the impact of those moves so far, however, has been confined to the White House. They have been largely limited to depriving Mr. Obama of the services of some Democrats disqualified from administration service because of past lobbying for corporations or liberal interests.
 ''In general, the view of lobbying is that it's just as effective on the Hill as ever,'' said Mr. Paster, the former Clinton lobbyist.
 As a Democrat, Mr. Paster said he remained optimistic that Congress would pass a health care bill that Mr. Obama could claim as a significant political victory. But ''significant in terms of changing'' the health care system? he asked. ''I worry about that a lot.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 9, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about the impact of lobbying on President Obama's health care plan omitted the given name and middle initial of a Democratic pollster who gave his impression of a focus group of independent voters. The pollster is Peter D. Hart.
 A chart with the article misstated the amount of money Johnson & Johnson spent on lobbying in the second quarters of 2008 and 2009 and it erroneously included the company among the health businesses and organizations that increased their spending on lobbying the most in that period. Johnson & Johnson decreased its spending to $1.55 million from $1.7 million in those quarters. It did not increase it from $0.1 to $1.7 million, the amounts reported by the Center for Responsive Politics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA D. DAVIS/GETTY IMAGES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN)(pg. WK1)
CHART: And This Year's Top Spenders Are...: Lobbying by sector, for the first and second quarters of 2009.
 Health businesses, organizations with largest increases.(Source: Center for Responsive Politics)(pg. WK4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); EMISSIONS (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); INSURANCE (69%); PARENT COMPANIES (67%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (60%)

COMPANY: WPP PLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR RESPONSIVE POLITICS (83%)

TICKER: WPPGY (NASDAQ) (53%); WPP (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (53%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (53%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



59 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2773 words

HEADLINE: Give Him Liberty, but Not a Bailout

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
OVER much of the last four decades, John A. Allison IV built BB&T from a local bank in North Carolina into a regional powerhouse that has weathered the economic crisis far better than many of its troubled rivals -- largely by avoiding financial gimmickry.
 And in his spare time, Mr. Allison travels the country making speeches about his bank's distinctive philosophy.
 Speaking at a recent convention in Boston to a group of like-minded business people and students, Mr. Allison tells a story: A boy is playing in a sandbox, only to have his truck taken by another child. A fight ensues, and the boy's mother tells him to stop being selfish and to share. 
 ''You learned in that sandbox at some really deep level that it's bad to be selfish,'' says Mr. Allison, adding that the mother has taught a horrible lesson. ''To say man is bad because he is selfish is to say it's bad because he's alive.'' 
 If Mr. Allison's speech sounds vaguely familiar, it's because it's based on the philosophy of Ayn Rand, who celebrated the virtues of reason, self-interest and laissez-faire capitalism while maintaining that altruism is a destructive force. In Ms. Rand's world, nothing is more heroic -- and sexy -- than a hard-working businessman free to pursue his wealth. And nothing is worse than a pesky bureaucrat trying to restrict business and redistribute wealth.
 Or, as Mr. Allison explained, ''put balls and chains on good people, and bad things happen.''
 Ms. Rand, who died in 1982, has all sorts of admirers on Wall Street, in corporate boardrooms and in the entertainment industry, including the hedge fund manager Clifford Asness, the former baseball great Cal Ripken Jr. and the Whole Foods chief executive, John Mackey.
 But Mr. Allison, who remains BB&T's chairman after retiring as chief executive in December, has emerged as perhaps the most vocal proponent of Ms. Rand's ideas and of the dangers of government meddling in the markets. For a dedicated Randian like him, the government's headlong rush to try to rescue and fix the economy is a horrifying realization of his worst fears.
 Indeed, so many bad things are happening that many followers of Ms. Rand, known as objectivists, believe that the ugly scenario in her 1957 novel ''Atlas Shrugged'' -- in which the government takes over industry as the economy progressively collapses -- is playing out in real life.
 New regulations are being enacted by the day. The rich may be forced to pay for health care for the poor. The auto industry is a ward of the state. An activist administration occupies the White House. And, of course, the federal government has inserted itself into the nation's banks, including BB&T, which accepted $3.1 billion in bailout money under the Troubled Asset Relief Program. 
 ''Rand predicted what would happen 50 years ago,'' says Mr. Allison, who notes that his bank was forced to take the money, which he labels ''a rip-off.'' ''It's a nightmare for anyone who supports individual rights.''
 But as cringe-inducing as the government's actions may be for objectivists like him, there is a silver lining: sales of ''Atlas Shrugged,'' which Ms. Rand considered her definitive work, are better than ever.
 In the first six months of 2009, Penguin Books shipped more than 300,000 copies of the book, which opens with the famous question, ''Who is John Galt?'' That's 25 percent more than in all of 2008. 
 ''It's just gone through the roof,'' said Kara Welsh, publisher for the New American Library, a division of Penguin. There's even a renewed effort to make a miniseries out of the book. The studio Lionsgate, along with the producers Howard and Karen Baldwin, hope to begin shooting as early as next spring.
 ''It is incredibly timely,'' said Michael Burns, vice chairman of Lionsgate. 
 While book sales haven't translated into a flood of new converts to objectivism, Yaron Brook, president of the Ayn Rand Institute, said attendance at this year's Objectivist Summer Conference in Boston -- where Mr. Allison delivered his speech -- was the best yet for an East Coast event. (Attendance at conferences on the West Coast, where the institute is based, tends to be 25 percent higher, he says.) 
 Among the participants was Dr. Shira Miller, who became interested in Ms. Rand's writing in college. She says objectivism continues to provide her with ''a moral philosophy for how to live a good and happy life.''
 Dr. Miller, who practices age-management medicine in Los Angeles, doesn't accept Medicare or health insurance so there can be no third-party interference with her individual rights or those of her patients, she says. ''Medicine is a product just like any other,'' says Dr. Miller, likening it to toasters, computers or legal advice. ''I should have the right to sell or trade it on my own terms, just like any other business owner.''
 For his part, Mr. Brook is encouraged by the new interest in Ms. Rand's work, but feels that it has yet to have much impact on the political debate. He's also struggling to change a popular perception that the financial crisis was caused by deregulation and the fiscal policies of a top Rand disciple: Alan Greenspan, the former Federal Reserve chairman.
 Mr. Brook argues that the problem wasn't deregulation, but ''misregulation.'' He also says it's unfortunate that Mr. Greenspan continues to be associated with Ms. Rand. While the two were close in the 1960s and '70s, Mr. Greenspan abandoned objectivism decades ago, he says. Through a spokesman, Mr. Greenspan declined to comment.
 ''If you look at every aspect of the political world, things are going against us, from health care to cap-and-trade,'' Mr. Brook says. ''And it's accepted wisdom that the financial crisis was caused by capitalism.''
 ''In the narrow sense of objectivism, things have never been so good,'' he adds. ''When you look at the larger world, it's pretty depressing.''
 THE enduring popularity of Ms. Rand bewilders her many detractors, who complain that her writing is melodramatic, heavy-handed and intellectually bereft.
 ''To describe her as a minor figure in the history of philosophical thinking about knowledge and reality would be a wild overstatement,'' says Brian Leiter, director of the Center for Law, Philosophy and Human Values at the University of Chicago. ''She's irrelevant.''
 Professor Leiter conducted an informal poll in March on his philosophy blog, asking, ''Which person do you most wish the media would stop referring to as a 'philosopher'?'' The choices were Jacques Derrida, Ms. Rand and Leo Strauss. Ms. Rand won by a landslide, with 75 percent of the roughly 1,500 votes cast.
 Professor Leiter says Ms. Rand's views on moral philosophy and objective reality are ''simple-minded in the extreme.'' 
 ''She doesn't understand the historical positions of thinkers on these issues, such as Hume and Kant,'' he says. ''Even the minority of philosophers with some sympathy for her celebration of the virtues of selfishness usually find her general philosophical system embarrassing.''
 Others contend that a lack of constraints on self-interested and greedy business people set the financial crisis in motion -- a view that tends to undermine Ms. Rand's theories on the value and social benefits of unfettered ambition and limited government.
 ''It takes a great leap of ideological blindness to look at the past few years and think that the main problem was too much government involvement,'' said Robert B. Reich, a public policy professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who was a labor secretary in the Clinton administration. 
 Mark A. Thoma, an economist at the University of Oregon, says the financial crisis would have been worse if the government hadn't rapidly intervened.
 ''I completely disagree with the idea that letting the markets heal themselves is the best idea,'' he says. ''We tried that in the '30s, and it didn't work out so well.''
 Fiscal conservatives take an opposite tack, arguing that the government has intervened in overly aggressive and risky ways. They find much to praise in Ms. Rand's economic views. Yet even for that crowd, her social views are a tougher sell. 
 Ms. Rand was an ardent atheist who considered the cross a symbol of how ''a man of perfect virtue'' sacrificed himself for a bunch of losers. ''It is in the name of that symbol that men are asked to sacrifice themselves for their inferiors,'' she said. 
 She had little time for women who stay home to raise children. Ms. Rand, who wrote sex scenes that one critic recently described as ''dark, kinky and weird, but not in a good way,'' in which normally tough businesswomen melt under the steely gaze and rough hand of ubercapitalists.
 Even so, Ms. Rand's books have sold briskly without the sanction of academics and book critics since they were published.
 Her black-and-white views were shaped by her upbringing in Russia, where her father's pharmacy was taken over by Communists, who also suppressed free thought at her university. In 1926, she came to the United States, which she had idealized as a free nation that valued human achievement.
 A short, chain-smoking woman with a severe haircut and heavy Russian accent, she once worked as a screenwriter in Hollywood and fashioned herself as ''a radical for capitalism.'' As her reputation grew, she was interviewed by Johnny Carson, Phil Donahue and Playboy magazine.
 A member of her New York salon was the young economist Mr. Greenspan. Ms. Rand called him ''the Undertaker'' for his dark clothing and dour manner.
 Mr. Greenspan, who wrote an article for one of Ms. Rand's nonfiction books advocating a gold standard, was among those who listened to and praised early drafts of ''Atlas Shrugged,'' which Ms. Rand started writing in 1946.
 It tells the story of Dagny Taggart, a brilliant and leggy railroad executive who steamrolls the ''looters'' and ''moochers'' who populate a deteriorating America to keep her trains running on time.
 She is part of a loose collection of can-do industrialists who struggle against a rising tide of government intervention that seeks to lessen competition and redistribute wealth ''for the common good.''
 As conditions worsen, the most talented people flee society to an idyllic mountain retreat overseen by an ingenious inventor, John Galt, who wants to deprive a corrupt nation of its greatest minds and to facilitate its demise. He warns that the best thing the bureaucrats could do is ''get the hell out of my way.''
 Mr. Brook, of the Ayn Rand Institute, says Ms. Rand understood then, in 1957, an emerging trend toward more government influence, where ''somebody's need is a claim against our wealth.''
 The problem with this, he says, is all too real.
 ''The last 50 years have been an orgy of placing need above wealth creation, above personal pursuit of happiness,'' Mr. Brook says. ''I think we are seeing the consequences of that today.''
 MR. ALLISON of BB&T has the tall, lean frame, copper-colored hair and confident demeanor of many of Ms. Rand's fictional heroes, including John Galt -- a look ''which would not seek forgiveness or grant it.''
 He also has a resume befitting a Rand prophet. He started at BB&T, once known as the Branch Banking and Trust Company, in 1971 and became chief executive in 1989, when the bank had $4.7 billion in assets.
 By the time he retired as C.E.O. in December, he had overseen 60 bank and savings-institution acquisitions and turned BB&T into the 11th-largest bank in the nation, with $152 billion in assets, according to the bank.
 A 60-year-old who speaks in a rapid-fire Southern accent, Mr. Allison says the current financial crisis is primarily the government's fault. He criticizes the Fed as trying to manipulate normal business cycles and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as facilitating mortgages to people who couldn't afford them.
 The government's remedies have made matters only worse, he says: ''Almost everything that has been done since this crisis started is going to reduce our long-term standard of living.'' 
 Mr. Allison says the government forced BB&T and some other healthy banks to accept TARP money to obscure that they were simply trying to save several large banks like Citigroup.
 ''Everyone thinks we got some kind of subsidy,'' he says, noting that his company paid the money back in June, with interest. ''It's going to cost us about $250 million for money we didn't want.''
 He suggests that government get out of the way and let businesses start making money again. An example of how to make money? Look no further than BB&T, which, he says, has a proven formula for success that centers on ''an uncompromising commitment to reason.''
 Under Mr. Allison, new executives were handed a copy of ''Atlas Shrugged.'' All employees get a 30-page pamphlet describing BB&T's philosophy and values: reason, independent thinking and decisions based on facts.
 ''Wishing something is so does not make it so,'' Mr. Allison says. ''I guarantee that long before the rest of us knew, those geniuses at Lehman Brothers knew that something was wrong, but they evaded it.''
 Mr. Allison was introduced to Ms. Rand's work in college, when he read her book ''Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal.'' He describes egalitarianism as the ''most destructive principle in our society'' and believes that the best employees should receive the most rewards.
 ''It's not true that everybody is equal,'' he says. ''A lot of business people don't want to deal with nonperformance.''
 Mr. Allison cites two examples in which the bank's philosophy guided its real-world decisions. 
 After the Supreme Court upheld the right of local governments in 2005 to condemn private property and hand it to someone else for commercial development, he says, BB&T refused to make loans to developers who obtained property that way.
 He also says BB&T decided not to offer the controversial ''pick a payment'' mortgages that got so many of its competitors into trouble. Such loans, also known as ''option A.R.M.'s'' or ''negative amortization loans,'' allow borrowers to make payments that don't even cover the interest on the loans, which causes the amount they owe to grow.
 ''While we did not foresee the decline in the real estate market, we knew home prices would not continue to appreciate at 15 percent per year forever,'' he says, adding that his bank knew that pick-a-payment loans would be trouble for many homeowners.
 ''We believe Rand's concept of the 'trader principle,' where life is about trading value for value, where both parties benefit from the transaction,'' he says.
 MR. ALLISON says that only a small fraction of the bank's employees are objectivists. Among the many who are not is his successor as chief executive, Kelly S. King.
 Bob Denham, a bank spokesman, says that ''most employees don't equate our values as being tied to John's objectivist philosophy,'' adding that ''they just think of them as practical values, which they are.''
 Christopher Marinac, an analyst at the research firm Fig Partners, says the culture at BB&T is definitely different from that of most other banks, attracting employees who ''have their heart and soul in their job.''
 He recalled attending his first analysts' meeting at the bank a decade ago and being surprised when Mr. Allison launched into an hour-and-a-half lecture on philosophy.
 ''I think those of us who are a little more open-minded got something out of it,'' Mr. Marinac says. ''Their employees drink the Kool-Aid. If they don't drink the Kool-Aid, they don't work at the bank.''
 Although BB&T has had problems during the financial crisis, it has outperformed its peers and remained profitable. After the government stress-tested major banks' balance sheets in May, BB&T wasn't required to raise additional capital.
 ''The philosophy has clearly been a competitive advantage,'' Mr. Allison says.
 Besides making speeches, Mr. Allison is also trying to spread Ms. Rand's ideas to the nation's colleges and universities. BB&T spends about $5 million a year to finance teaching positions and research on ''the moral foundations of capitalism.''
 Mr. Allison, who is now teaching at Wake Forest University, says the money isn't specifically slated for objectivism but rather to support the work of ''free-market professors, especially those that have a serious interest in Rand's philosophy.''
 Despite the current bleak state of capitalism, he's also optimistic about the future.
 ''In some ways, Ayn Rand filled in the ideas of Aristotle. It's a whopping competitive advantage,'' he says. ''I personally believe objectivism will be the dominant philosophy in this country in 25 years.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John A. Allison IV, chairman of the banking company BB&T, is a devoted follower of Ayn Rand's antigovernment views. So he's not too happy about Washington's rush to try to fix the economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU1)
 Alan Greenspan, center, was a follower of Ayn Rand, right with her husband, Frank O'Connor. With them in 1974 were Mr. Greenspan's mother, Rose Goldsmith, and President Gerald R. Ford.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID HUME KENNERLY/GERALD R. FORD LIBRARY)(BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (86%); BASEBALL (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: BB&T CORP (85%)

TICKER: BBT (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%)

PERSON: JOHN A ALLISON IV (92%); JOHN P MACKEY (79%); ALAN GREENSPAN (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



60 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: A Terrible Thing to Waste

BYLINE: By JACK ROSENTHAL. 
Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, has pinch-hit for the vacationing William Safire since 1982.

 BODY:
Just after Barack Obama's election in November, Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff, made this memorable statement to an interviewer: ''You never want a serious crisis to go to waste.'' The underlying insight is wise. In a sprawling, contentious democracy, competing interests suspend their antagonisms only when they have to confront an alarming common threat. The thought struck a universal chord and has since been attributed to Emanuel many times. 
 But there's a problem: Authorship. Emanuel did not claim to be coining an epigram, only to be describing a moment of opportunity. Nevertheless, he was unwittingly echoing something that the Stanford economist Paul Romer said in November 2004 at a venture-capitalist meeting in California. Referring to the increasing competition that America faces from rapidly rising education levels in other countries, Romer said, ''A crisis is a terrible thing to waste.'' 
 Today, Romer says he is not at all upset about the current attribution to Emanuel. After all, he says cheerfully, his own sound bite played off the well-known slogan of the United Negro College Fund, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste,'' coined in 1971 by Forest Long of the Young & Rubicam ad agency. That was the same slogan that Vice President Dan Quayle famously misrecalled in 1989 when he said, ''What a waste it is to lose one's mind.''
 There are two lessons here. One is rhetorical. The pungency of Romer's version has been diluted. Casual repetition has reduced a forceful sound bite to a homely homily. Emanuel's version was already blander -- and later rephrasings have inevitably become more so. Here are two recent examples from The New York Times. In April: Legal experts ''should follow Rahm Emanuel's advice about never allowing a crisis to go to waste.'' In June: ''There is opportunity in this crisis, as more than one mayor has proclaimed, paraphrasing Rahm Emanuel.''
 The second lesson concerns credit. Romer graciously cites Stigler's Law of Eponymy, which states that any scientific discovery named for someone is not in fact named for its actual discoverer. For instance, Alzheimer's disease was observed by several others well before Alois Alzheimer reported on it in 1906. Edmond Halley computed the orbit of the comet named after him in 1705; it had been observed by others since 240 B.C. Fittingly, Stigler's Law is an example of itself. Stephen Stigler, the University of Chicago statistician who proposed the law in 1980, attributed it to the sociologist Robert Merton, who suggested something similar in 1968.
 There's also a larger point here, one that speaks to our era of contention over copyrights and wrongs. Once a word, phrase or sound bite wins widespread usage, it escapes the promulgator's possession and enters the wide world of the public domain. As Romer says, ''You can't own a sound bite.''
 TRANSPARENCY
 The public domain: as it keeps mushrooming in this digital age, so does the challenge of accessibility, which accounts for the rising use of the term transparency. President Obama has promised to provide it: ''We will work together to ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency.'' Even so, the flood of information rises ever higher, and the word public becomes ever more corrupted. Government officials can proclaim that endless file cabinets are available to the public while knowing full well that if it's hard to open them, in practical terms their contents remain private.
 The president's commitment to transparency received a boost from Vivek Kundra, whom the president has called on to serve as chief information officer of the United States. To applause from a thousand open-government activists at the recent Personal Democracy Forum in New York, Kundra announced the creation of an ''I.T. dashboard'' on the Web site USASpending.gov. It enables anyone anywhere to track the $70 billion the federal government spends on information technology annually. 
 That open spirit is not, however, universally honored, which is why Andrew Rasiej, a technology entrepreneur, urges a federal law that redefines ''public'' to mean searchable and readable online. Representative Steve Israel, a Democrat of New York, is drafting just such legislation.
 In the wake of the British Parliament's expense-account scandal, Speaker Nancy Pelosi ordered in June that expense records of the House of Representatives be posted online. Only last month did senators finally agree to post their official expenses online -- but not until fiscal 2011. And even that requirement does not apply to campaign-contribution information required by the Federal Election Commission. The Senate continues to provide that data on paper, even if it was compiled online to start with. That means it must be digitized by the commission, by which time the next election may well have come and gone. Transparent? Yes, but also emasculated. 
 UNWELCOME 
 Thank you and you're welcome were once as connected as horse and buggy, but the buggy's disappearing. A casual survey of acquaintances finds the most frequent response to thanks is now no problem. When National Public Radio hosts thank correspondents for their reports, other responses include sure, sure thing, my pleasure, any time, no sweat and you bet!
 Why such wide reluctance to use a longstanding courteous expression? Probably precisely because it is so longstanding, leached by time of its sincerity. Might the same fate await no problem? You bet. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANN FIELD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (71%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (69%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (55%)

PERSON: RAHM EMANUEL (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



61 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: A Mover and a Shaker of Money Trees

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: NEEDHAM, Mass. 

 BODY:
 IN building the Pan-Massachusetts Challenge charity bikeathon into one of the top ''thons'' in the nation, Billy Starr, 58, has learned the importance of locking in donations up front.
 He makes every cyclist sign a contract committing to a minimum donation -- this year's range is $500 to $4,200, depending on how far you ride -- and requires a credit card to guarantee the gift.
 ''You sign six times -- I repeat, six times -- that you will pay us the minimum and once you register, you owe us the money, even if you change your mind tomorrow about biking,'' he said. ''This is not about your good intentions, we need you to make a commitment. I'm looking for a client with stick. Stick is what it's about.'' 
 As if on cue, his public relations director stuck her head in his office, dropping off a hot tea from Dunkin' Donuts for a reporter, which Mr. Starr immediately grabbed. ''Stick,'' he said, pointing to the Pan-Mass logo on the cup. ''We're on every Dunkin' Donuts coffee cup in New England for the next few weeks. First time on a Dunkin' Donuts cup! This is awesome, doors open. This is how we build credibility.''
 In 1980, Mr. Starr, who lost his mother to cancer when he was 23, organized a bikeathon with a few dozen friends that raised $10,000. In the years since, he has built it into a premier charity event, a weekend spectacle that attracts 5,000 cyclists, 3,000 volunteers and last year raised $35 million for the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
 And while you might not guess it from glancing at him (he works in shorts and sandals) or his modest headquarters (in an industrial park here), Mr. Starr is one of the nation's savviest fund-raisers, for which he was paid $460,000 last year.
 ''It is a lot,'' he said, ''but I earn it.'' To date, he has raised $240 million for cancer research. And though the 30th bikeathon, going on this weekend, is projected for the first time to raise less than the prior year because of the economy, he still expects to hit $30 million. He has taken a 1960s invention, the fitness ''thon'' for charity, and made it into a lifelong career.
 ''I get calls from people in their 40s; they say, 'I want to be you, how do I do what you do?' '' Mr. Starr said. ''I say, 'That's nice, but this has been 30 years coming.' They don't realize I ran this thing out of my father's house for 15 years. I had no health insurance for 10 years, no retirement plan for 15.''
 ''I didn't get married until late,'' he said. ''Living at home, women didn't exactly see me as an ideal candidate and neither did their parents.''
 Paulette Maehara, president of the Association of Fundraising Professionals, tracks the participatory ''thons'' to the early '60s, when President Kennedy urged Americans to get fit, and communities began organizing 50-mile walks. Nonprofit groups adapted the outings as a way to raise money, with the Church World Service (hunger, 1969) and the March of Dimes (birth defects, 1970) among the first to organize charity walkathons. ''Until then,'' Ms. Maehara said, ''people gave money and were hands off. The thons tapped into the boomers' desire to participate plus stay fit.''
 David Hessekiel, president of the Run, Walk, Ride Fundraising Council, estimates that these events raise $3 billion to $4 billion a year, or 1 to 2 percent of the nation's philanthropy. But Ms. Maehara says they have an effect beyond that. ''It taps an enormous pool of people willing to do things beside the thon,'' she said.
 Mr. Hessekiel ranks the top thons by money raised. All are concentrated on diseases -- AIDS, diabetes, Lou Gehrig's, cystic fibrosis, with events focusing on cancer accounting for 10 of the top 30 moneymakers. Last year, the American Cancer Society's Relay for Life ranked first, raising $430 million by staging nearly 5,000 walks around the country. The Pan-Mass bikeathon, which ranks 15th overall, is the top single event fund-raiser, one long weekend of bike riding that stretches from central Massachusetts to the tip of Cape Cod.
 There are several keys to Mr. Starr's success.
 LOW OVERHEAD He has just six full-time employees and four part-time employees. His office is the front of a warehouse where he stores donated goods. He guarantees that every dollar a cyclist raises goes directly to cancer research. The operating overhead is paid primarily through corporate sponsorships.
 His salary is set by his board, which consults with two compensation firms that make recommendations based on the amount raised each year plus comparative executive salaries in the field.
 HIGH-PROFILE SPONSORS In the mid-1980s, Larry Lucchino, then a Baltimore Orioles executive, was treated for cancer at Dana-Farber. In 1999, Mr. Starr worked through Mr. Lucchino's doctor, Dr. Lee Nadler, to get the baseball executive to speak at the Pan-Mass opening ceremony. In 2002, Mr. Lucchino was part of a group that bought the Boston Red Sox and shortly after, he expanded the team's involvement. ''I said to the owners, 'If I can raise $15 million without you, imagine what I can do with you,'' Mr. Starr said. Fenway Park now has an annual Pan-Mass night where bikers parade on the field. Mr. Starr has twice thrown out the ceremonial first ball. The bikeathon logo is displayed on Fenway Park's left-field wall. ''There's nothing like hearing an announcer say, 'That ball careened off the Pan-Mass logo,' '' Mr. Starr said. While many factors account for the event's growth -- including the decision by New England Cable News to sponsor and broadcast the event 11 years ago -- since the Red Sox became involved, donations have doubled.
 PAY FOR NOTHING Mr. Starr estimates he gets $2 million worth of in-kind contributions to run the bikeathon. A very partial list of donated goods and services: 23 tractor trailers, 38 medical vans, 100 medical staff members, 160 massage therapists, 2,000 empty milk gallon jugs for water stops and 25 tons of food. That includes 20,000 bananas, 12,000 granola bars, 10,000 hamburgers, 2,900 English muffins, 800 frozen pizzas and 350 pounds of hummus.
 NO DETAIL TOO SMALL Riders receive a computer-generated bracelet that has a name, bar code, which of the eight routes they are riding, emergency contact, allergies, age (to determine if a cyclist is allowed to drink alcohol at day's end.) For those riding two days, there are change kits in case their luggage is lost. For those who are injured -- typically 15 to 30 a year -- there's a bag that includes a T-shirt, water and two magazines to read while waiting to be seen at the hospital. (In 30 years, two people have died.)
 TREAT VOLUNTEERS LIKE ROYALTY AND THEY RETURN Many, including Stop & Shop truck drivers Dave Aronson and Steve Lema, use vacation time to volunteer. Matt McGuiness, 28, a coordinator at the starting site in Sturbridge, Mass., has been a volunteer for 17 years.
 DON'T LOSE SIGHT OF THE PRIZE Mr. Starr gets daily computer reports of where fund-raising stands compared with past years. On July 21, he knew he had 5,207 registered, who'd given $13.4 million, compared with 5,546 and $14 million at the same point in 2008 and 5,431 and $12.4 million for the same time period in 2007.
 FOLLOW YOUR HEART The death of Mr. Starr's mother, in 1974 at age 49, left him unsettled. For years he bounced from job to job. 
 He loved cycling, and that first bikeathon in 1980 -- riding a $300 bike, in sports shorts with no helmet -- felt right. He rides daily, usually duringlunch, and has ridden in every Pan-Mass challenge, personally raising over $1 million from friends and family.
 Mr. Starr, who married at 40, now has two children and lives in upscale Wellesley, Mass. His bike gear matches and his current bike cost $7,000.
 In making this his life, he has followed a basic boomer credo: Do what you love and things will work out. ''Yes,'' Mr. Starr said. ''That sums it up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PACK MENTALITY: Billy Starr, top, the founder and executive director of the wildly popular Pan-Massachusetts Challenge bikeathon, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOHN DEPUTY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (89%); CHARITIES (89%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); CYCLING (72%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (69%); CANCER (69%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (67%); ONCOLOGY (64%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (93%); DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (93%); DANA-FARBER CANCER INSTITUTE INC (65%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (93%); DNKN (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



62 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 2, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: School Is Out but Education Doesn't Stop for the Obama Daughters This Summer

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The girls have toured the Eiffel Tower and ogled the stone majesties of the Pantheon. They have swooned over the Jonas Brothers, giggled over wax likenesses of their parents and romped with friends at Camp David, all in the span of two blissfully school-free months. 
 Welcome to Sasha and Malia Obama's fabulous summer vacation, a hodgepodge of foreign travel, concerts, birthday parties and just plain fun carefully organized by the president and first lady. (The first lady has dubbed it Camp Obama.) 
 But President Obama and his wife, Michelle, have also tried to ensure that this first summer in the White House is about more than lighthearted fare. They have incorporated history lessons, community service and healthy eating and exercise into their daughters' time off, offering yet another glimpse of the parenting style behind the walls at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
 The Obamas discussed the slave trade with their girls during a visit to a slave port in Ghana. They focused on volunteering at Fort McNair in Virginia, where the girls helped stuff backpacks with books and toys for the children of military families.
 In Rome, they arranged for Malia and Sasha to make gelato and to see how fresh fruit -- bananas and blackberries, in particular -- can be transformed into mouthwatering sweetness.
 The Obamas are sticklers for emphasizing structure and discipline in their child rearing. Summertime, they have made clear, provides no respite from the rules.
 ''The television and the computers are off all day until after dinner and right before bedtime,'' Mrs. Obama said during a June visit to San Francisco as she described her daughters' summer routine. ''Bedtime is early.'' 
 (This is no easy task, though, even in the Obama household. Mrs. Obama acknowledged last month that her girls were often glued to their computers: ''What would we do without our laptops? My kids would die. They wouldn't make it through the summer.'') 
 Some critics say the Obamas' far-flung family travels are inappropriate at a time of recession.
 But friends and aides say the Obamas view the nation and the world at large as an open-air classroom for their children, who have met Pope Benedict XVI and President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and witnessed the rhythms of life in a developing country like Ghana, all in one summer.
 ''They want to expose their children to make sure they appreciate the complexity of the world, to see the wonderful opportunities that occur, but also some of the suffering that is at hand,'' said Charles J. Ogletree, a law professor at Harvard and a close friend of the Obamas. 
 ''It will help them, as they get older, to understand how the United States has a moral obligation to think about other people,'' Professor Ogletree said. 
 In a television interview with CNN last month, Mr. Obama described the visit to the slave port in Ghana as an opportunity to explain to Malia, 11, and Sasha, 8, how ''people were willing to degrade others because they appeared differently.''
 In the interview, the president said he tried to get his girls to ''engage in the imaginative act of what it would be like if they were snatched away from Mom and Dad and sent to some place they had never seen before.''
 ''But, you know, part of what you also try to do with kids is to get them to imagine themselves on the other side, as being the slave merchant,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And get them to -- to make sure that they are constantly asking themselves questions about whether they are treating people fairly and -- and whether they are examining their own behavior and how it affects others.'' 
 Doug Wead, a former Bush family adviser and the author of ''All the Presidents' Children: Triumph and Tragedy in the Lives of America's First Families,'' said several presidents had traveled abroad with their children, including Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter. (Laura Bush, the former first lady, went to Africa with her daughter Jenna while George W. Bush was president.)
 Still, not everyone is cheering the Obamas on.
 Last month, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said the president had some ''nerve'' to be sightseeing in Paris while insisting that Congress should focus on overhauling health care.
 John Baer, a columnist at The Philadelphia Daily News, recently pondered what parents who had lost their jobs and been forced to cancel their family vacations would make of the president's plans to savor some family time on Martha's Vineyard this month.
 ''Those who view Obama as an elitist will have new ammunition,'' Mr. Baer wrote.
 Mr. Obama's aides emphasize that the president and the first lady cover the costs of any personal travel and that the stresses of the presidency make such breaks essential. 
 The Obamas have made a point of getting their children out of the White House bubble this summer -- taking them to cheer on Beyonce in concert here; to visit Monticello, Thomas Jefferson's home in Virginia; and to spend lazy summer afternoons at Camp David.
 In Moscow, where Malia and Sasha toured the Kremlin, Mr. Obama told CNN he was thrilled to watch his daughters ''see the world and then report back to us on what they are seeing.''
 In Ghana, Mrs. Obama and her girls, who are descendants of slaves, placed two red roses in the slave dungeons and paused for a moment of silence for the people who were imprisoned there, said Fritz Baffour, a member of Ghana's Parliament who helped guide the family through the Cape Coast Castle.
 ''Michelle Obama told me that the experience was an educational experience for her children,'' Mr. Baffour said in a telephone interview from Ghana. ''This was a great opportunity to give the children a sense of their being, their true worth and their history.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama telling his daughters about Cape Coast Castle in Ghana, a departure point for slaves, during a tour on July 11.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN THEW/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. A12)
 The Obamas, with their daughters, Malia, right, and Sasha, on July 6 at the Kremlin in Moscow.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEI GUNEEV/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PARENTING (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); SLAVERY (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); FAMILY (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (70%); NUTRITION (69%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (64%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MICHELLE OBAMA (89%); NICK JONAS (73%); JOE JONAS (73%); KEVIN JONAS (73%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (55%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); ROME, ITALY (58%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GHANA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (74%); ITALY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2009



63 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 492 words

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
NEW YORK ON LESS:
 Delayed Impact 
 At Queensbridge
 At Queensbridge Houses, six square blocks of six-story buildings sandwiched by the East River, the Big Alice power plant and the Queensboro Bridge, economic struggles long predate the recession. 
 The city's largest public housing development, Queensbridge is officially home to 6,842 people, but the Rev. Mitchell G. Taylor, who grew up in Queensbridge and runs economic development projects there, estimates the population at more than 18,000.
 Average income in the complex is $22,970, and 14 percent of the residents receive some form of welfare assistance, according to the New York City Housing Authority. Those figures, from January, are slightly better than they were two years before, largely, Mr. Taylor believes, because the effects of the recession hadn't hit yet.
 ''When Wall Street gets a cold, residents in public housing get pneumonia,'' said Mr. Taylor, president of the East River Development Alliance, known as ERDA.
 Robert James, 32, and his uncle Carl Alston, 50, both construction workers, have been out of work for most of the past year. Each has poured his savings into opening a business across from the complex. 
 Mr. James and his brother Rashard Petty opened Queensboro Cutz (''You got hair, we got cutz!'') in March; Mr. Alston is planning a fish and soul food restaurant called Mr. Sonny's, after his father, who also sold fish and chips.
 Q. You're brave to open a business at a time like this.
 A. Mr. James: I can't say there are huge profits, but it gives me something to do, and I'm looking at the bigger picture; otherwise, I would be sitting at home. It's not losing money. Everybody's got to get their hair cut. And also, how are you going to get a job? The interview starts with your appearance.
 Q. Are you getting any help?
 A. Mr. Alston: ERDA is trying to help. Also, I have my father's hat. [He pointed to a fedora tacked to the wall.] That's his spirit over there. That was his last hat.
 Mr. James: Also, we try to think of every possible way to make money. We have PlayStation -- 50 cents a game.
 Q. Have you seen any effects of the recession on daily life in Queensbridge?
 A. Mr. Alston: For us it was never that good anyway. To people outside, they think, ''The projects, it's the worst place you ever could dream of.'' It's not that bad to us. We're at the bottom of the food chain. Construction work slowed up for me. But it hasn't been as devastating as for people who have to cut down, maybe not join the country club. If we didn't watch the news, we wouldn't know. ANNE BARNARD 
 SLIDESHOW: Online: A slide show from Queensbridge Houses. 
 TAKING
 QUESTIONS
 This week, Bob Roistacher, chairman of the New York City Community Sailing Association -- which offers affordable sailing lessons, racing, cruising and day sailing -- will answer readers' questions. Submit questions online; the first set of answers will appear on the blog on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A mural is under way near the Queensbridge Houses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (65%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



64 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FORTY YEARS' WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2574 words

HEADLINE: Lack of Study Volunteers Is Said To Hobble Fight Against Cancer

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
Not long ago, at a meeting of an advisory group established by Congress to monitor the war on cancer, participants were asked how to speed progress. 
 ''Everyone was talking about expanding the cancer work force and getting people to stop smoking,'' said Dr. Scott Ramsey, a cancer researcher and health economist, who was participating in that January 2008 meeting of the President's Cancer Panel. ''Lots of murmurs of approval.''
 Then it was his turn.
 The biggest barrier, in his opinion, was that almost no adult cancer patients -- just 3 percent -- participate in studies of cancer treatments, mostly new drugs or drug regimens. 
 ''To me it was obvious,'' Dr. Ramsey said. ''We can't improve survival unless we test new treatments against established ones.'' 
 The room fell silent. 
 ''It was one of those embarrassing moments,'' said Dr. Ramsey, an associate professor at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center in Seattle. He had brought up the subject he said no one wanted to touch.
 Forty years after President Richard M. Nixon declared war on cancer, death rates have barely changed. ''Why aren't we getting cures?'' Dr. Ramsey said. ''This is one of the biggest reasons.''
 Of course, there have been highly successful clinical trials -- studies of drugs like Gleevec for chronic myelogenous leukemia and estrogen-blocking therapy for breast cancer, and also studies that proved drugs did not work. But the problem is still immense, cancer researchers agree.
 There are more than 6,500 cancer clinical trials seeking adult patients, according to clinicaltrials.gov, a trials registry. But many will be abandoned along the way. More than one trial in five sponsored by the National Cancer Institute failed to enroll a single subject, and only half reached the minimum needed for a meaningful result, Dr. Ramsey and his colleague John Scoggins reported in a recent review in The Oncologist. 
 Even worse, many that do get under way are pretty much useless, even as they suck up the few patients willing to participate. These trials tend to be small ones, at single medical centers. They may be aimed at polishing a doctor's resume or making a center seem at the vanguard of cancer care. But they are designed only to be ''exploratory,'' meaning that there are too few patients to draw conclusions or that their design is less than rigorous.
 ''Unfortunately, many patients who are well intentioned are in trials that really don't advance the field very much,'' said Dr. Richard Schilsky, an oncologist at the University of Chicago and immediate past president of the American Society of Clinical Oncology.
 Others studies, by companies, are designed to persuade doctors to use their drugs. 
 Still others are testing questions like whether it makes a difference to give a drug every nine days or every two weeks. ''These are practical real-world questions,'' Dr. Schilsky said. ''But they don't do a great deal to advance the research field. They are not going to provide the next breakthrough.''
 In any case, the great majority of oncologists just steer clear of studies. They make little or nothing on trials and, in fact, often lose money. These doctors also may discourage patients from going elsewhere to enter a trial: if a patient leaves, the doctor loses business.
 One issue is the money lost on chemotherapy, the source of 60 percent to 80 percent of the revenue at oncologists' offices. The doctors buy the drugs and are reimbursed by insurance for slightly more than the drugs' cost. But if patients are in clinical trials, the drugs may be paid for by the federal government or a drug company sponsoring the study -- and doctors get nothing.
 Then there is the poorly reimbursed hour or so it takes to explain a trial to prospective patients. And, after all that, most patients either turn down the trials or, after further testing, turn out to be unqualified.
 That is just the start, cancer specialists say. There is voluminous paperwork. And the risk of legal liability for errors like neglecting to mention a financial interest in the drug being tested, in specimen handling or in billing. 
 ''A lot of doctors say, 'This is not worth it,' '' Dr. Schilsky said. 
 Reluctant Patients
 It is one of the worst times imaginable -- a cancer diagnosis, all the terror that goes with it, and then, sitting in a doctor's office and being asked to make difficult decisions about treatment. Then add questions about joining a trial. Some say it is just too much to think about. 
 Research starts with so-called Phase 1 trials that test a drug's safety and the maximum dose patients can tolerate. Although it is possible that some will benefit, most do not because the doses are ineffective or unsafe and few new drugs prove worthwhile. 
 Then comes Phase 2, further testing of the drug in a small study, and Phase 3, in which patients with a particular cancer that is still treatable are randomly assigned to get the best available current drug or that drug plus the new experimental one. 
 Most patients are not interested in clinical trials. Some do not want the extra office visits and tests a trial entails and do not want their treatment determined by the flip of a coin. Others fear getting a placebo, even if there isn't one -- placebos are rarely used in United States cancer trials. Others find the whole idea too overwhelming when they are trying to save their lives.
 At California Cancer Care, in Greenbrae, north of San Francisco, where Dr. Peter Eisenberg works, the agony of choosing a trial was on display. Although the oncologists there try to offer trials to every patient, last year they enrolled just 43 of about 700 new patients.
 The most enthusiastic have lethal tumors and no effective treatments, Dr. Eisenberg explained. They are like one of his patients, Ken Fye, a retired rheumatologist with pancreatic cancer who hopes to find a study in which he can enroll. He figures he has little to lose and wants to help science. ''It would be obscene if I did not,'' he said.
 It is not entirely clear why some trials succeed, but researchers say those that do may have some features in common: patients may be like Dr. Fye, with no or few options, so they are easier to recruit, particularly if the drug promises to make a real difference, not just give them a few days or weeks. Successful trials also typically address an important problem, as opposed to a more marginal one, and involve experienced investigators and patient advocates who push for participation. 
 But it can be particularly hard to recruit patients whose prognosis is better. 
 Gael Casner, for instance, turned down a trial that would have required her to see Dr. Eisenberg for weekly infusions of a cancer drug, Avastin, that was being tested. It had helped women with breast cancer that was more advanced than her own. 
 For Ms. Casner, a 57-year-old college admissions adviser, the prospects, after surgery and chemotherapy, were excellent. ''I was thinking, 'O.K., I hate shots,' '' she said. And she has to travel for her job, making it difficult to go in once a week for an infusion.
 ''If they had said every month, I would do it,'' Ms. Casner said. ''But every week was a deal breaker. That was why, personally, for me, the trial did not make sense. I was not in a life-threatening situation.''
 Then there are the patients for whom there is still a real risk of a recurrence but who are not prepared to cope with a clinical trial on top of everything else. Those are like Dr. Eisenberg's first patient on one bright June morning, a 74-year-old man accustomed to danger -- he flew helicopters for the military -- now facing a very different kind of risk for which he felt unprepared.
 The man, who asked that his name not be used to protect his privacy, sat grim and ashen in a sunny exam room, his wife at his side, his daughter across from him. He had colon cancer. It had already invaded his lymph nodes and eaten through the wall of his bowel. He had had surgery and now had to decide what, if anything, to do next.
 Choice No. 1: no chemotherapy, no further treatment. Thirty-one of 100 patients like him who chose no further treatment were alive and cancer-free for at least five years. But 30 of 100 relapsed, and 39 died of other causes, like a heart attack. 
 Choice No. 2: the most aggressive chemotherapy, including 48-hour intravenous infusions of a drug with serious side effects. If he chose that regimen, he would have a 43 percent chance of being alive and cancer-free in five years. But he also had a 14 percent chance of relapsing. And he had a 44 percent chance of dying of something else.
 The bottom line, Dr. Eisenberg said, is that 11 people of 100 who get this chemotherapy are alive and well because of it. But that also means that almost 9 of 10 who opt for this treatment are not helped -- they either relapse or die of other causes within five years. 
 Choice No. 3: a less aggressive chemotherapy with a smaller improvement in survival rate.
 But there was another option. He could join a Phase 3 clinical trial sponsored by a drug company, ImClone. He would be randomly assigned to receive chemotherapy with or without ImClone's drug, Erbitux, approved for people with colon cancer more advanced than his. The aim was to find out whether Erbitux could also help those with earlier colon cancer. 
 ''The trial may help you or it may hurt you because the drug may make you sick,'' Dr. Eisenberg said.
 ''I know this is overwhelming,'' he added.
 ''I've been overwhelmed for three months,'' the man replied.
 The 45-minute conversation over, the man, shaken, went home to ponder his options. 
 A week later he was back. He wanted chemotherapy, but a clinical trial was not for him. He joined the majority of cancer patients, hoping for the best with what is already known.
 Reluctant Doctors
 For 15 years, Dr. John M. Rainey at Louisiana Oncology Associates in Lafayette did his best to enroll patients in clinical trials. He believed in research and thought doctors like him should do their part. But he finally had to stop. Every study was costing his group a few hundred dollars to $1,500 and the bureaucratic requirements were getting out of control. 
 ''When we put a pencil to it, it didn't make economic sense,'' Dr. Rainey said.
 First was the institutional review board, the committee that reviews the trial to make sure patients are protected from harm. Every time a study patient had an adverse reaction, every participating medical center had to notify patients and respond to the review board. Many reactions had nothing to do with the drugs, Dr. Rainey said, and instead were related to the patients' illnesses.
 ''It became a hassle factor,'' he said. ''We didn't have the manpower.'' One of the five doctors in the group was spending three to five hours a week filling out forms. 
 ''You could see five or six or seven patients in that time,'' Dr. Rainey said.
 Then there was the unreimbursed or poorly reimbursed time to explain a clinical trial to patients and get consent. Those who agreed would have to come back a second time to start treatment, adding to the patients' costs as well, since most lived 25 to 50 miles away. If they were not in a study, their treatment could start right away. 
 ''We were seeing more and more patients, and time did not allow us to sit down with patients and get them on trials,'' Dr. Rainey said.
 ''It just did not make economic sense for us to go in the hole,'' Dr. Rainey explained.
 And that, researchers say, is one reason why progress is so slow. 
 Only one study in five even publishes its results, Dr. Ramsey and Dr. Scoggins found. 
 And, of the unpublished studies, ''a significant percentage'' probably ended uncompleted because they could not recruit enough patients, noted Dr. Gregory A. Curt and Dr. Bruce A. Chabner, editors of the journal The Oncologist, in an editorial on Dr. Ramsey's and Dr. Scoggins's paper. ''Which potential statistic is the sadder, the low publication rate'' or, Drs. Curt and Chabner wrote in The Oncologist, the meager number of patients who enroll? 
 ''In truth they both are,'' the two oncologists continued, ''as neither should be true.''
 A New Approach
 Cancer experts offer two answers to the problem of clinical trials: spend more, giving doctors better incentives and perhaps even paying patients, or, with no real prospects for a big infusion of money, use available money and patients more efficiently. 
 Donald Berry, a statistician at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, wants to use resources more efficiently. To do so, he designed a new sort of study to test experimental drugs for breast cancer. 
 The study, starting this fall, is a departure from traditional notions of drug testing and cancer treatment. 
 Participants will be women who are newly diagnosed with breast cancer and at high risk that it will spread in their bodies.
 Ordinarily, women with breast cancer have surgery first to remove the tumor in their breast and then have chemotherapy. The problem with removing the tumor right away is that it can take 5 to 10 years to know whether an experimental drug killed any remaining cancer cells. It is easier and much faster to assess an experimental drug's effects on tumors that remain in the body. So in this study, women will get standard chemotherapy and experimental drugs first. Researchers will do MRI scans to see whether the tumors are responding.
 Then, six months later, surgeons will remove the tumor or, if the tumor is gone, tissue from where it used to be, to determine how the cancer responded to the drugs.
 The idea of leaving a cancer in place for six months can sound shocking, even dangerous. But cancer researchers say it actually makes no difference whether chemotherapy comes before or after surgery. 
 ''If a woman comes in with a large tumor, surgery isn't going to save her life,'' said Dr. Laura Esserman, a breast surgeon at the University of California, San Francisco, who is principal investigator for the study. Death is caused by cancer that spreads beyond the breast. 
 ''The standard way,'' Dr. Esserman added, ''operate, give a drug, hope for the best, is not going to work if you are trying to drive progress quickly.'' 
 Also, this study will analyze the genetic makeup of the patient's tumor and use that information to determine which drugs might be most effective. In most studies researchers have not accounted for genetic differences in tumors. 
 The study will also ensure that women have a better chance of getting whatever drug seems to be working. As the study goes on, if one drug appears to be working better than others, researchers will adjust the study so that new participants whose tumors have the same genetic makeup will be more likely to get it.
 The aim is to need far fewer women to determine whether a drug works, and to get answers more quickly.
 Dr. Berry said that some traditional breast cancer trials are seeking 5,000 or even 10,000 women. It is no surprise, he added, that trials start ''limping along'' trying to enroll their quotas of patients.
 In the new study, the winners of this drug competition will be tested in a definitive Phase 3 study with just 300 patients whose tumors have a similar genetic profile to those of the women who responded.
 ''This is definitely the answer'' to the problem of getting enough patients for studies, Dr. Berry said. ''We will use patients more wisely.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the shortage of volunteers for clinical trials in cancer research misstated the source of a finding that more than one trial in five sponsored by the National Cancer Institute failed to enroll a single subject, and only half reached the minimum needed for a meaningful result. It came from an editorial in the September 2008 issue of The Oncologist, not from a review in that issue. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Peter Eisenberg of California Cancer Care, in Greenbrae, north of San Francisco, speaking with Shirdokht Delfi, 76, who has ovarian cancer
her husband, Alipasha Nouri
and her daughter Shideh Nouri.
 Gael Casner, 57, with her mother-in-law, Fran Casner. Gael Casner, a patient at the cancer center, opted against a clinical trial requiring weekly visits.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARCY PADILLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A14) CHART: Discouraging Participation: Enrolling patients in cancer research studies can be costly and timeconsuming. Below, an estimate of time spent by the staff at California Cancer Care, a medical oncology practice, in a recent Phase 3 clinical trial.(A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (95%); ONCOLOGY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); CANCER HOSPITALS (89%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); LEUKEMIA (78%); CANCER DRUGS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); SMOKING (73%); BREAST CANCER (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); HEALTH CARE (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: CANCER CARE (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



65 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; DIAMONDBACKS 5, METS 2; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 943 words

HEADLINE: After Loss, Pelfrey Could Take Notes on Garland's Efficiency

BYLINE: By BEN SHPIGEL

 BODY:
In preparation for his next start, Mike Pelfrey will watch videotape from Sunday's game. The exercise could have great instructional value, as long as he fast-forwards past the pitches he threw and pays rapt attention to the metronomic efficiency of Arizona starter Jon Garland.
 While Pelfrey labored until he was removed after five innings in the Mets' 5-2 loss to the Diamondbacks, Garland provided a how-to guide on economical pitching. He worked quickly, fired first-pitch strikes and, with hardly an overpowering repertory, plowed through the Mets' lineup with fewer pitches in nine innings (106) than Pelfrey threw over five (107). 
 As afternoon faded to night at Citi Field, the product of a 2-hour-28-minute rain delay at the start, Pelfrey sat in the dugout frustrated, stewing over the latest discouraging episode in his stupefying season.
 ''I know I need to be better, I need to be more consistent,'' said Pelfrey, who allowed three runs and has a 4.75 earned run average through 21 starts. ''I know it drives a coach crazy not knowing what you're going to get. And that's the way I felt I've been.''
 Turning points seem to come a few times every season for Pelfrey (8-7). Stretches of sustained proficiency follow those of complete ineffectiveness -- or vice versa -- and often with little warning. He reached a pivotal moment four starts ago, a nine-run debacle in Atlanta, and another one has emerged now. 
 Cast as the Mets' No. 2 starter, the 25-year-old Pelfrey is dealing with challenges faced by many young pitchers, but his struggles are magnified on a 50-54 team that needs consistent starting pitching to remain relevant in the National League playoff chase.
 Despite flashing a slider that produced five of his six strikeouts, Pelfrey could not harness the pitch central to his success, the sinker. It was unavailable when he needed a ground ball, prolonging at-bats and upping his pitch count. 
 Arizona's Nos. 7 and 8 hitters, Alex Romero and Augie Ojeda, reached base in four of five plate appearances against Pelfrey, with Romero supplying a wounding hit. In the fourth, with two outs and Pelfrey one strike from ending the inning, he threw Romero three straight balls before allowing a double that drove in the Diamondbacks' first run.
 ''I made mistakes, and they made me pay for it,'' Pelfrey said. ''I got what I deserved.''
 Honesty is one of Pelfrey's strong points, and he said he thought that after his July 22 start in Washington he was pitching to the best of his ability -- or close to it. His spirits were buoyed by improved command and a fastball that consistently reached 96 miles per hour. Seven shutout innings in his last start, Tuesday against Colorado, buttressed his conviction.
 He started out well Sunday, striking out the side in the first inning, and in Garland-esque fashion, retiring his first two hitters in the second on three pitches. And then, in the kind of sequence more common for Oliver Perez, Pelfrey issued a walk and hit two batters, loading the bases before escaping. 
 The next time he loaded the bases, in the fifth, Pelfrey could not recover. Turning on an inside fastball, Chad Tracy smacked a two-run double over Jeff Francoeur's head, extending the Diamondbacks' lead to 3-0. Pelfrey retired the next two hitters, but with 107 pitches to his credit, he did not face another one.
 ''Because of his stuff, he'll learn to be a little bit more economical with his pitches,'' Mets Manager Jerry Manuel said a day after Perez lasted five innings while throwing 112 pitches. ''Not only him. The last two nights, we've had a 100-pitch total after five innings. It gets very rough on your bullpen.''
 Enter Garland, who, in contrast, threw 11 or fewer pitches in three of his first four innings and first-pitch strikes to 11 of the first 13 batters and 22 of 33 over all. When Angel Pagan grounded out on Garland's first pitch, Manuel said he detected the beginnings of a pattern that has plagued the Mets all season: looking meek against sinkerball pitchers. 
 ''It's a mystery to me,'' Manuel said.
 Garland's sinker-cutter combination -- more sink than cut -- baited the Mets into hitting his pitches. Rather than run the risk of falling behind by 0-1 or 0-2, the Mets tended to swing early in the count. Over the final four innings, they reached base twice.
 ''I faced him when he was in Anaheim, and this year when I faced him, he's never controlled the ball like he did today,'' said Francoeur, whose fifth-inning homer cut the Mets' deficit to 3-1.
 They added a run in the fifth and could have scored more when Gary Sheffield batted with Alex Cora on third and one out. But Sheffield, in his first at-bat since coming off the disabled list Sunday, lined out sharply to first, and Pagan flied out. With Garland at his efficient best, the Mets did not get another chance.
 To split the four-game series, the Mets on Monday must overcome a more formidable pitcher than Garland, Arizona's ace, Dan Haren. By then, Pelfrey will have started preparing for his next start, scheduled for Friday in San Diego, which precedes the Mets' series in Arizona. There, he will have a chance to show how much -- and from whom -- he has learned.
 INSIDE PITCH
 Nelson Figueroa will be recalled from Class AAA Buffalo to start Monday night. To make room on the roster, Pat Misch will be optioned to Buffalo. ... After throwing a 25-pitch bullpen session Sunday morning, J. J. Putz said he was aiming to rejoin the Mets' bullpen in about three weeks. He said he expected to have a more definitive plan mapped out after another bullpen session Wednesday, when he would increase his intensity and pitch count.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Arizona's Jon Garland throwing out David Wright. Garland threw a complete game Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATHY WILLENS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



66 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; VIDEO GAME REVIEW DAWN OF DISCOVERY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: When Worlds Collide, War Need Not Follow

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
Only Germans, perhaps, could make a game about economics -- a stylish, intelligent and captivating one at that.
 Dawn of Discovery is the best new single-player strategy game I have played in several years. It will not satisfy anyone's inner warlord; if pillaging, bombing and grinding your virtual enemies into submission is your idea of strategic game play, Dawn of Discovery is not for you. But if building a grand, classical empire spanning both the Occident and Orient sounds appealing, Dawn of Discovery, particularly the Windows version, is the kind of game that can easily occupy hundreds of hours over many years.
 It is understandable, if vaguely condescending, that Ubisoft, the game's publisher, has called the game Dawn of Discovery in North America while calling it Anno 1404 in the rest of the world. (The game is set in an approximation of the early 15th century.) After all, the broad American consumer has never been that great at history, especially when it comes to times before our own. Ubisoft is French, but the game's developer, Related Designs, is German, and Dawn of Discovery is a quintessential German game. 
 It almost goes without saying that American media products are far more filled with depictions of violence than European ones. Having experienced war and genocide at home quite recently, Europeans are far less enamored than Americans are of turning violence into entertainment.
 That contrast is nowhere more clear than in video games. American games are generally the most violent in the world, followed closely by Japanese ones. But Germany is particularly vigilant when it comes to excising the most violent scenes from games sold in that country. Some especially gory games (and many, if not all, of those involving Nazis) cannot be sold in Germany at all.
 That shying away from violence does not extend just to video games. In recent years a new wave of nonelectronic German board games has found an eager audience around the world, including in the United States. In many ways Dawn of Discovery is more similar to great German board games like Puerto Rico and Settlers of Catan than it is to most American computer strategy games.
 Catan and Puerto Rico are about trading with other players and building up your mini-empire, not about crushing your enemies by force. Dawn of Discovery is different from American real-time strategy computer games like StarCraft and Command & Conquer in the exact same way.
 Many American gamers are familiar with empire-building only through turn-based games like Civilization. Dawn of Discovery is a real-time game, so the action unfolds as you play rather than pausing while you queue up orders and moves turn by turn. Yet Dawn of Discovery is different from and more interesting than most real-time games in two ways.
 First, the problem with most real-time strategy games is that eventually they simply overwhelm the player with micromanagement. Send some tanks over here, respond to an enemy incursion over there, order 10 more battleships or whatever, all with very little time to respond. Most real-time strategy games devolve into a contest of who can keep the most balls in the air the longest. They can feel cheap.
 Dawn of Discovery does a masterly job of allowing players to focus on the big picture of their budding empires while the scut work of moving goods around and managing trade routes can largely take care of itself. The player can dive into the minutiae at any time, but in general if I'm going to take a beating in a strategy game, I want it to be because of a high-level strategic miscalculation, not because I didn't fine-tune my wheat production to the nth degree.
 The other difference that distinguishes Dawn of Discovery is that while combat is the entire foundation of most strategy games, it is almost an afterthought in Dawn of Discovery -- a natural, organic, almost ancillary outgrowth of an empire's growing commercial power and appetite. The game makes it so hypnotically enjoyable to build a settlement from huts to town houses, to build churches and bazaars and spice farms and stone quarries, that it's easy to forget about the naval skirmishes.
 In its intricate and well-drawn story line Dawn of Discovery is anti-colonial. The player begins as a minor noble in what is called an Occidental empire and is soon tasked with establishing relations with and exploring the Orient. The Orient, with its gorgeous Middle Eastern architecture, is basically populated by the good guys. The bad guys are the zealous Crusaders from the Occident who want to exploit the Orient. Ideally the player ends up defeating the bad guys and restoring peace and justice to the Occident.
 Dawn of Discovery is also available for Nintendo's Wii and DS, but this is really a game with its soul on the PC. The story-driven campaign mode is wonderfully paced. Meanwhile entire nights and weekends (not to mention cross-country plane flights) will inevitably be occupied in sandbox mode. For the thinking game player those hours could hardly be better spent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Images from Dawn of Discovery, a strategy game from Ubisoft involving empire-building in the Occident and the Orient.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM UBISOFT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER GAMES (90%); BOARD GAMES (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); BOMBINGS (72%); MEDIA VIOLENCE (71%)

COMPANY: UBISOFT ENTERTAINMENT SA (56%)

TICKER: UBI (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512199 OTHER MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

TITLE: Dawn of Discovery (Video Game)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



67 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 262 words

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for July and construction spending for June (Monday); personal income and spending for June and pending home sales for June (Tuesday); the ADP employment survey for July and factory orders for June (Wednesday); and unemployment for July (Friday). 
 COMPANY EARNINGS Reports will come from Clorox, Humana, MGM Mirage, Marathon Oil, Molson Coors, Pulte Homes and Tyson Foods (Monday); Archer Daniels Midland, CVS Caremark,D. R. Horton, Electronic Arts,GMAC, Kraft Foods and Whole Foods Market (Tuesday); Ambac Financial, Allstate, Cisco Systems, Fortress Investment, the News Corporation, Polo Ralph Lauren, Procter & Gamble and Prudential Financial (Wednesday); Beazer Homes, Blackstone, CBS, Comcast, Cooper Tire and Rubber, El Paso, Lenovo, MBIA, the Nasdaq OMX Group, Sirius XM Radio, Thomson Reuters and the Wendy's/Arby's Group (Thursday); and Berkshire Hathaway (Friday).
 IN WASHINGTON The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on strengthening bank supervision. Scheduled to testify are, among others, Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; John C. Dugan, comptroller of the currency; John E. Bowman, acting director of the Office of Thrift Supervision; and Daniel K. Tarullo, above, a Federal Reserve governor (Tuesday).
 The Senate Banking Committee conducts a hearing on proposals to enhance the regulation of credit rating agencies (Wednesday).
 AUTO SALES REPORT Automakers announce their United States sales for July (Monday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); TIRES (69%); SATELLITE RADIO (68%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (67%); AUTOMAKERS (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (72%); ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (71%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (71%); NEWS CORP (70%); SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (69%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (68%); D R HORTON INC (58%); TYSON FOODS INC (57%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (57%); PULTEGROUP INC (57%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (57%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (57%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (57%); MARATHON OIL CORP (57%); ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (57%); ALLSTATE CORP (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (56%); WENDY'S CO (56%); COOPER TIRE & RUBBER CO (56%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (56%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (55%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (72%); ADM (NYSE) (71%); CVS (NYSE) (71%); NWS (NASDAQ) (70%); NWS (ASX) (70%); SIRI (NASDAQ) (69%); DHI (NYSE) (58%); TSN (NYSE) (57%); WFM (NASDAQ) (57%); PHM (NYSE) (57%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%); TAP (NYSE) (57%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (57%); MRO (NYSE) (57%); EA (NASDAQ) (57%); ALL (NYSE) (57%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (56%); WEN (NASDAQ) (56%); CTB (NYSE) (56%); PRU (NYSE) (56%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (56%); PG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (71%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (71%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (71%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (71%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (71%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (71%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (71%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (71%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (71%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (69%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (68%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (68%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (58%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (58%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (57%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (57%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (57%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (57%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (57%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (57%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (57%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (57%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%); NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (57%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (56%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (56%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (56%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (56%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN C DUGAN (65%); RALPH LAUREN (57%); SHEILA BAIR (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



68 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Troubled Banks, Huge Bonuses

 BODY:
Remember the outrage over the stupendous bonus payments at A.I.G.? A repeat is likely to play out on Aug. 13 when Citigroup and Bank of America formally ask the government's permission to pay a round of bonuses to their topmost executives. Saved by taxpayers from the brink of collapse, Citi and Bank of America are still dependent on the public purse to survive. The federal pay czar, Kenneth Feinberg, would be right to reject requests for big bonuses at banks feeding from the public trough. 
 Beyond current bonuses, there is a more important item on Mr. Feinberg's agenda: how executive pay will be structured at the nation's banks in the future. Mr. Feinberg must approve bonuses for the 25 best-paid executives at the seven big companies that are still dependent on the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- including Citi and Bank of America. He must also approve the structure of pay for their top 100 bankers.
 His patience will be tested. Andrew Cuomo, the New York attorney general, revealed that Citi paid $5.33 billion in bonuses in 2008, despite losing $27.7 billion and taking $45 billion from the TARP. Bank of America got $45 billion from the TARP and paid $3.3 billion in bonuses. In all, 738 Citi employees and 172 at Bank of America took bonuses of $1 million or more last year. The Wall Street Journal reported that Citi paid the head of its energy-trading unit $98.9 million in 2008 and could award him as much as $100 million this year. 
 Mr. Feinberg must object to gargantuan payouts from banks that would be bankrupt if not for taxpayers' money. He should not be deterred by banks' arguments that they will lose superstars and compromise profitability if they can't pay lavishly. The superstars caused the problem with financial wizardry they did not fully understand. But there are limits to what he can do. 
 He might question whether contracts written when the banks were flush are legally binding when they are on life support. He could urge banks to renegotiate lavish contracts. He could even act to limit bankers' future pay to compensate for big current bonuses, even though banks could still wriggle out of that stricture.
 Most broadly, Mr. Feinberg must devise a structure to dissuade bankers from blowing up the economy again. In principle, one would like to see firms pay executives as they saw fit. But banks are different. They gamble with ordinary people's money. They have proved they can do it extremely destructively. Bankers' remuneration was among the main factors behind this destructive behavior, encouraging them to take on dubious bets that provided big short-term returns at the expense of their institutions' and the economy's future stability. The House finally passed a bill last week that is designed to take a step toward controlling this runaway pay.
 Bankers' compensation must be aligned with the performance of their strategies over the entire period in which they put their bank's capital at risk. One way would be to make bonuses vest gradually over a period of years, while investments mature. Establishing a better compensation structure for the 100 top bankers at Citi and Bank of America will not solve the problem. But it could provide a template for a broader overhaul.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



69 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: With Enough Soldiers, The Army Is Looking For a Few Good Officers

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS QUENQUA

 BODY:
AFTER three straight years of growth -- helped in part by a sagging job market -- the Army is starting to find itself a bit bottom heavy, swollen with young recruits but short on officers to lead them. Starting Monday, it is hoping a fresh promotional effort can reverse that.
 For the first time in its history, the Army is introducing an advertising campaign to recruit officers. The ads in many ways resemble the force's mainstream recruitment effort -- camouflaged soldiers carrying big guns and standing at attention, with patriotic music as the soundtrack -- but have been tweaked to appeal to achievement-oriented college graduates who could qualify for one of its officer training programs. 
 For example, two of the TV commercials could be mistaken for ads from I.B.M. or Accenture until the Army's signature music chimes in about halfway through. Another shows pictures of famous generals like George Washington, Douglas MacArthur and Colin Powell, while a voice-over says, ''Officers in the U.S. Army can rise to any challenge. Can you?''
 The goals are to attract ambitious young Americans who might normally consider the Army beneath their career objectives and give the Army a jolt of much-needed creative leadership. 
 ''It's a tough environment out there,'' said Lt. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley, head of the Army Accessions Command, which oversees recruiting. ''It's no longer where the enemy lines up on one side of the field and the coalition lines up on the other side and the referee blows the whistle. It's a very complicated battlefield to figure out, and there are no referees.
 ''It is a different era, and it requires a different kind of thinker,'' he said. 
 The Army's growing pains are reflected in its recruitment statistics. The force has expanded by more than 50,000 troops since 2005, reaching 544,000 at the end of 2008. And last month, the defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, announced his intention to add 22,000 troops in the next year. The expansion of the Army has come in response to wars in Iraq and Afghanistan that taxed the scaled-back force that emerged from the 1990s. 
 But some of that growth can be attributed to relaxed standards. Only 83 percent of new recruits in 2008 held a high school diploma, missing the Army's goal of 90 percent for the third consecutive year. A growing percentage of new recruits during that time have also been scoring in the lowest acceptable range on the Army's vocational aptitude test.
 So while the force is meeting or exceeding its goals in terms of pure numbers, it is falling short in its search for men and women qualified to lead their peers.
 ''The economic downturn has made it really easy for the Army to recruit in recent years, and that was a big surprise to people who thought a big shooting war would discourage people from signing up in the first place,'' said Loren B. Thompson, a defense analyst with the Lexington Institute, a research organization. ''But because of changes in threats and shifts in domestic demographics, the military is looking for a different type of officer today than what it was seeking in the past, and that requires special recruiting efforts.'' 
 Four TV commercials will provide the public face of the campaign, all of which begin running Monday. The two that slowly reveal themselves to be Army ads tell the story of high-ranking corporate executives with experience as Army officers: Joseph DePinto, chief executive of 7-Eleven; and Otto Padron, a senior vice president at Univision. 
 ''We learned through research that when the 'Army Strong' music came on in that first second of the commercial, those achievement-oriented students would reject it because they would think it was not for them,'' said George Dewey, executive creative director at McCann Erickson, the Army's creative agency. ''When these kids find out that the Army has produced these superstars, it's an 'aha' moment for them.''
 That is also the thinking behind an ad that features George Washington and Colin Powell. The final ad, which more closely resembles a typical Army commercial, features a current officer explaining his decision to join the R.O.T.C. 
 The TV ads will mostly run during the same programs as the mainstream recruitment commercials, like ''CSI: Miami,'' ''Law and Order'' and sports programming. Web ads will run on ESPN.com and other major sites, but also destinations like Stack.com, a site for achievement-oriented athletes.
 McCann Erickson is part of McCann Worldgroup, a collection of creative, media, digital and public relations agencies, each of which has a hand in the wide-ranging campaign. Worldgroup, which is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, took over the Army's advertising account in 2006, when it introduced the ''Army Strong'' tag line, replacing ''Army of One.''
 The online centerpiece of the campaign is a microsite, GoArmy.com/officer, where potential candidates can answer a series of questions that determines which of the four paths to becoming an officer is right for them. Those paths are Army R.O.T.C., the Military Academy at West Point, direct commission and officer candidate school.
 The site also contains videos, each less than five minutes long, explaining more about each of the paths. Potential candidates can use the site to download information and make contact with a recruiter. The site was created by MRM, the digital arm of McCann Worldgroup.
 The Army is also working with Major League Baseball to produce a program called ''Leaders of the Diamond,'' a series of interviews with all-stars about leadership and dedication that will appear on MLB.com. It is also hosting panel discussions at universities around the country this fall at which students can talk to officers directly. 
 The goal of the campaign is not just to recruit officers now, said General Freakley, but also to begin doing a better job of marketing the officer ''product'' to young Americans.
 ''If you think about it as brand or product management, we have this product within our brand that gets no notoriety,'' he said. ''For those who just graduated college, now is the time to become aware they can come to officer candidate school. We think the timing is right to get the notion out.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. David H. Petraeus, the top commander in Iraq, in a campaign to recruit college graduates. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); MUSIC (75%); ACADEMIC TESTING (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (56%)

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (58%); ROBERT M GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



70 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Out of Search Business, Yahoo Shifts Its Focus

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: SUNNYVALE, Calif. 

 BODY:
Carol A. Bartz, chief executive of Yahoo, has been hobbled.
 Three weeks ago, doctors gave her a new left knee, made of titanium and plastic. As a result, she is limping around Yahoo's headquarters here, occasionally standing to hold a chair and stretch her leg while a bottle of Percocet sits at the ready on her desk.
 Yahoo also underwent invasive surgery recently, selling its search business to Microsoft for an initial 88 percent share of search revenue in a 10-year deal. Since that move last week, Yahoo too has limped along, with disappointed investors asking whether Ms. Bartz could have won more favorable terms and with Yahoo shares tumbling more than 15 percent.
 In a lengthy interview on Friday before departing for a vacation, Ms. Bartz said she sold the search business because Yahoo could no longer continue to match the level of investment Google and Microsoft were making in searching, one of the Web's most lucrative and technologically complex businesses. 
 While reducing the marketing and infrastructure costs associated with search, the deal will also provide money that Yahoo can use to bolster other businesses. Ms. Bartz plans to invest the money in Yahoo's display ad, content and mobile services technology. 
 ''My first reaction when I got here was that I wouldn't even do a search deal,'' she said, ''until I looked at our expense structure and our actual options and looked at what our prime job was, which is to grow audience.'' 
 Yahoo will lose some of its most talented engineers to Microsoft and as many as 400 employees through layoffs. The deal also undercuts years of investment around search technology. By selling the technological crown jewels, the company may lose some of its high-tech credibility among employees and others in Silicon Valley, as well as among customers. 
 But the core of Yahoo remains intact, according to Ms. Bartz. ''We haven't eviscerated the company,'' she said.
 Given Yahoo's battering by investors, Ms. Bartz lamented that Yahoo and Microsoft failed to explain the relationship better to Wall Street. She blamed herself for a comment she made several weeks ago, at an industry conference, that Microsoft would have to pay Yahoo ''boatloads of cash'' to win its search business. That statement, she said, helped to solidify an expectation that Yahoo would receive $1 billion or more upfront as part of the deal.
 ''I made a mistake. I was never interested in doing it for upfront money. That doesn't help me operate a business,'' Ms. Bartz said. She noted that such a payment would have had significant tax consequences while contributing only $3 million in annual interest to Yahoo's bottom line.
 Wall Street had become enamored with the previous, more immediately lucrative proposals between Microsoft and Yahoo. Last year, trying to improve its search business and better compete with its archrival Google, Microsoft offered $46 billion to buy all of Yahoo. Analysts estimate that the new deal -- involving what many people saw as Yahoo's most important asset -- is worth only around $4 billion to $5 billion. 
 ''It's rather like getting a Picasso and saying, 'You know, the canvas costs $200, the paint cost $300, so we'll sell it to you for $500,' '' said Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''I've never seen investors so angry.''
 Microsoft's chief, Steven A. Ballmer, has gone to unusual lengths to defend the deal on Yahoo's behalf. Last week, he told a group of investors gathered at Microsoft's headquarters that it was ''sort of unbelievable'' that Yahoo got to keep such a high percentage of the ad sales while spending nothing on the underlying infrastructure to run the search operation. 
 And Ms. Bartz argues that the more generous offers came during far different economic times. In addition, she said, analysts have underestimated the two and half years it will take to integrate the two companies' search and advertising systems. The companies also face the daunting process of getting approval from regulatory agencies that are now closely scrutinizing deals on antitrust grounds.
 Ms. Bartz said that she avoided Mr. Ballmer's immediate advances after taking the helm of Yahoo. ''He called my first day,'' she said. ''I told him: 'Go away. I haven't even found the bathroom.' ''
 When Ms. Bartz finally began negotiations, Mr. Ballmer presented two options: a large upfront payment or a higher percentage of revenue tied to ads sold on Yahoo Web sites. ''He wasn't going to pay twice,'' Ms. Bartz said.
 Ultimately, Mr. Ballmer, who was unavailable to comment, and Ms. Bartz ended up on the phone debating minute details, like how fast things like search results and ads would appear, at one point haggling over a margin of 100 milliseconds. 
 Ms. Bartz also fought to play down Microsoft's Bing brand on the Yahoo search results page, with just a bit of text instead of a logo, and she pushed Mr. Ballmer hard to make sure that Yahoo retained the right to sell its own display ads to big advertisers like Procter & Gamble and Unilever.
 ''I had to get Steve through the, 'we get to sell part,' '' she said. Meanwhile, Ms. Bartz has plenty of other work to do at Yahoo. She has picked up on the dysfunction throughout the company during her eight months on the job.
 For one, Yahoo has not poured enough money into creating a top-class technology infrastructure capable of delivering a variety of services to consumers. ''We are actually behind in investing,'' she said. ''We should have invested more.'' 
 Ms. Bartz also complained about a lack of balance among the different product groups. Motivated employees in the company's sports section have turned it into a must-visit Web destination by breaking news stories and providing witty commentary. Other sections have languished. 
 This is often a result of what Ms. Bartz sees as insufficient communication and barriers among the company's various American and international properties over sharing videos and other content. ''We had a fight for 18 months here on what a video button should look like,'' Ms. Bartz said.
 Spending money to fix these problems made more sense to Ms. Bartz than hemorrhaging cash in a bid to keep pace with Google and Microsoft. 
 Microsoft has backed its new search engine, Bing, with billions of dollars in infrastructure and marketing investments. So far, the search engine has been well received. While encouraged by some of Bing's innovations, Ms. Bartz figures that Google will most likely match them soon. ''That is the arms race I don't want to be in,'' she said.
 But some investors fear that Yahoo may be trading one of the most profitable businesses of the 21st century -- search -- for a deflating, hypercompetitive media business that appeared to peak in the 20th century. 
 ''I don't think the surviving pieces are very interesting,'' said Michael Lippert, manager of the Baron iOpportunity fund, which acquired Yahoo shares earlier this year on the anticipation of a lucrative search partnership. Mr. Lippert was disappointed by the terms of the deal but did not make out too badly; his fund also owns Microsoft stock, which rose slightly last week. 
 ''Ballmer got himself a fantastic deal,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carol A. Bartz, chief of Yahoo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS (B1)
 Carol Bartz of Yahoo and Steve Ballmer of Microsoft negotiated the deal to share search revenue.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YAHOO, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%)

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (94%); GOOGLE INC (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (94%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

PERSON: CAROL BARTZ (92%); STEVEN A BALLMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



71 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: As Tickets Increase, So Does Pay For Agents

BYLINE: By JO CRAVEN McGINTY

 BODY:
New York City's surge in parking summonses may be costing motorists, but it has been a boon to traffic enforcement agents, at least a third of whom have substantially increased their pay with hefty overtime earnings, city records show.
 More than 700 agents increased their wages by 20 percent with overtime in the 2008 fiscal year. Some raised their pay by 50 percent or more. One agent even managed to double his income. 
 In all, the city doled out $13 million in overtime pay, on top of $68 million in regular pay to its traffic agents. But in terms of pure economics, it has been a worthy investment: Ticket agents generated $578.6 million in revenues for the city in fiscal 2008, up from $366.6 million in 2002.
 ''It's very tough parking in the city,'' said Radek Jaskolski, who frequently drives into Manhattan from Queens for Fox Plumbing. ''We get more tickets than before, that I know. Maybe that's why.''
 The agents who earn the most overtime adhere to grueling schedules. In fiscal 2008, more than a dozen agents worked 300 or more days. Others routinely put in seven or more consecutive days of work. And one ticket writer worked 81 days straight. 
 But even fiscal watchdogs, who generally fault overtime as evidence of poor management, say they can understand the city's penchant for it because spending on overtime may make more economic sense than filling new positions. 
 While this is not true for the ticket-writing force, which has grown dramatically to reach a head count of 2,332 this summer, up from 1,559 in 2002, in other departments overtime may be used to compensate for a depleted staff. ''It can be less costly to have municipal employees work overtime rather than hiring and having to pay not only salaries but fringe benefits for things such as pensions and health insurance, the cost of which have been growing exponentially,'' said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the city's Independent Budget Office.
 Traffic agents, who work for the Police Department, are among the lowest paid of the city's enforcement personnel, and that, according to the agents' union, may explain the desire of some agents to log large quantities of overtime.
 ''From our standpoint, we can't get enough overtime,'' said James Huntley, president of CWA Local 1182, which represents traffic and sanitation workers. ''It's like having a second job. The overtime is something we appreciate.''
 After putting in a 40-hour workweek, ticket agents, whose annual starting salary is $27,013, can earn time and a half in overtime pay, Mr. Huntley said. 
 ''You have to ask N.Y.P.D. permission to work a second job,'' Mr. Huntley said. ''Why do that when you can ask for overtime?''
 The Police Department points out that agents are not required to perform overtime. 
 ''It's not mandated by the department,'' said Paul J. Browne, a police spokesman. ''But as these are relatively low-paid jobs, we don't have any shortage of volunteers.''
 Mr. Browne also noted that when construction sites disrupt street traffic and force the department to provide parking and traffic enforcement, builders reimburse the city for the cost of the overtime.
 Labor experts observe that overtime is common among the uniformed services like police and fire, which must provide 24-hour coverage. New York City firefighters are even guaranteed 96 hours of overtime each year in their contract. 
 The problem with relying on overtime, said Carol Kellerman, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonpartisan group that monitors city spending, is that it ''becomes perceived as part of the salary.''
 ''It can turn into a de facto raise,'' she said. ''Then you are not really disclosing the true salary of the job. You're not really telling the public what work force is needed to do the job and what it is being paid.''
 Although there are now more ticket writers than there have been at any other time this decade, there still seems to be plenty of overtime to go around -- and Mr. Huntley said he hears few complaints about it at union meetings.
 ''The majority of people, they look for it,'' he said. ''They want to do more for their apartment, for their home, for their children. And if you take it from them, they might cry, some of them.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OVERTIME (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); TICKET AGENCIES (74%); WRITERS (65%); WORK WEEK (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



72 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Leave Swiss Banks Alone

BYLINE: By PIERRE BESSARD. 
Pierre Bessard is the president of the Liberales Institut, a research institution.

DATELINE: Zurich 

 BODY:
 LAST week, an American client of the Swiss bank UBS admitted to filing a false tax return and concealing millions in Swiss bank accounts. For some people, his plea will just confirm their impression of Switzerland as a haven for criminals or dictators who want to protect their funds from taxes or oversight. 
 But for us here in Switzerland, our financial privacy laws are a foundation for individual dignity and basic property rights. 
 Unfortunately, the confidentiality that is the hallmark of Swiss banking is coming under increasing pressure. The global economic crisis has led some governments to intensify efforts to seek tax revenue abroad -- and Switzerland, which accounts for nearly 30 percent of all offshore private wealth, is a natural target. 
 Earlier this year, Switzerland was put on a ''gray list'' by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and threatened with financial sanctions, leading the government to provisionally renegotiate tax agreements with a dozen countries so far. Most of those agreements would require Switzerland to hand over individuals' financial information for tax purposes in accordance with the organization's standards. 
 The United States Justice Department went even further and filed a lawsuit against UBS, seeking the names of 52,000 account holders suspected of hiding money from the Internal Revenue Service. (The United States and Switzerland agreed in principle on Friday to settle the matter out of court.) 
 Switzerland, which is home to an impressive number of global corporations, has also come under fire from the European Union for offering too-favorable tax rules, including exemptions for income earned abroad. But what critics forget is that these practices also benefit other countries. Swiss firms alone employ hundreds of thousands of people in the United States and Germany, for example. Subsidiaries of multinational corporations usually pay income taxes where they operate, so having their headquarters in Switzerland can help companies avoid multiple taxation in high-tax countries, thereby safeguarding productive capital for investment. 
 Until recently, the Swiss government had steadfastly insisted on Swiss sovereignty and refused to provide assistance to other governments in cases of tax evasion -- that is, cases in which a taxpayer failed to declare income, either intentionally or unintentionally. While tax fraud is considered a crime here, tax evasion is not (though it can be subject to fines).
 This Swiss peculiarity of considering tax evasion as a mere administrative offense has a long history. We think government exists to serve us, not the other way around. We understand that we have to pay taxes -- and we do, with numerous studies showing that the Swiss are extraordinarily honest about paying what we owe -- but we do not think it is the government's role to intrude on our privacy and wrench them from us. 
 This attitude goes back to Switzerland's founding in the 13th century. The original Swiss communities' resentment of what they saw as the Hapsburgs' oppressive taxes helped push them to claim their independence in 1291. 
 Today, Swiss citizens continue to vote on any tax increases in referendums (and sometimes even accept them). These healthy curbs on government contrast with the Orwellian concept of the ''transparent citizen'' whose every act is known to government. We see our system as a social pact between citizens and the state. 
 Swiss privacy laws help preserve basic property rights. Bank secrecy was introduced in 1934, most notably to protect the identities and assets of Jews in Nazi Germany. (Unfortunately, those same rules made it difficult for some heirs to gain access to these accounts without proper documentation, leading to an out-of-court agreement in 1998 by Swiss banks to pay $1.25 billion to settle Holocaust-related lawsuits.) Corruption, expropriation, crime and the persecution of various minorities remain risks in most of the world. For people threatened by such risks, financial privacy can protect their legitimate property. 
 Some would argue that Swiss bank accounts offer the same protections to criminals, but in fact Swiss provisions against money laundering are tough. Swiss bankers are required to know their clients and the origin of the funds they accept. They must alert the regulators if they suspect criminal behavior. 
 Banking confidentiality enjoys overwhelming support in Switzerland. According to the latest annual survey by the polling firm M.I.S. Trend, 78 percent favor maintaining the laws as they are, and 91 percent are shown to value their financial privacy. This is especially relevant since Swiss citizens are expected to vote eventually on the renegotiated tax treaties in a referendum.
 If the government fails to convince a majority of voters, the treaties won't enter into force. But if they are ratified as planned, the Swiss government should agree only to an exchange of information in individual cases with reasonable suspicion of tax fraud.
 Other governments should see this as a fair compromise. We will not solve the global problem of tax evasion by punishing honest depositors and destroying Swiss traditions.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANDRE DA LOBA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); LITIGATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (94%); UBS (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) SWITZERLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (54%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



73 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: 10 Years Ago, An Omen No One Saw

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com http://twitter.com/carr2n

 BODY:
Ten years ago Sunday, on an island off an island off the coast of America, something impossibly glamorous took place. Partygoers took boats from Manhattan to the home of the Statue of Liberty to plop pashalike on pillows and blankets and munch on lamb chops while Macy Gray sang, their faces illuminated with multicolored Chinese lanterns and fireworks curated and narrated by George Plimpton. 
 ''That was a silver-flanged fleur-de-lis,'' said the voice, highly recognizable but disembodied by darkness. 
 This was the Talk magazine launch party on Aug. 2, 1999 -- simply called The Party at the time -- and it seemed as if a new era of media fabulousness had been christened. The Hearst Corporation and Miramax, owned by Disney, decided to finance a new general interest magazine led by Tina Brown, fresh off her triumphs at Vanity Fair and The New Yorker, that would lead the national conversation. 
 It was all kicked off with the kind of lavish party that would seem unthinkable in the current context. 
 Sponsored liquor flowed, women teetered about on heels in deep grass, and the A-list guest list -- Mr. Kissinger, please meet Miss um Ms. uh meet Madonna -- was a testament to the power of the synergized word. Content was king and Ms. Brown was its queen. 
 ''Now you're not exactly the tired masses, the huddled masses, but then again, I'm an immigrant who toiled here on the Concorde,'' she said to the crowd after being introduced by Queen Latifah. ''But I just want to say, here's to Lady Liberty tonight.'' 
 Too bad nobody saw the sharks circling in the harbor. Rather than the culmination of a century of press power, the Talk party was the end of an era, a literal fin de siecle. Flush with cash from the go-go '90s and engorged by spending from the dot-com era, mainstream media companies seemed poised on the brink of something extraordinary. But that brink ended up being a cliff. 
 ''It seems like that happened in the 18th century,'' said Ms. Brown by phone last Friday. 
 Magazines are on pace to book little more than half of the advertising pages that the industry did 10 years ago, and dozens of longtime titles have disappeared. The last big magazine introduction -- Portfolio at Conde Nast Publications -- flamed out this spring after two years at a cost of more than $80 million. Now even Conde Nast Publications, the world headquarters of printed luxury, has brought in the bean counters from McKinsey with an eye toward further cuts. There may never be another large magazine launch ever, and certainly not one that was accompanied by the fanfare of Talk. 
 I'm still ashamed to admit that I wasn't one of the lucky 1,000 people invited to the party -- old prerogatives die hard -- so I was trapped on shore, covering it secondhand with a nose pressed up against the glass. But it is worth thinking about how this future, or lack of one, arrived so unforeseen.
 Ten years ago, journalists, long the salarymen of the publishing economy, began gorging on big contracts and options from digital start-ups like shrimp at a free buffet. With coveted writers commanding $5 for every typed word into magazines that were stuffed to the brim with advertising, there was a fizziness, some would say recklessness, in the air. The industry was drunk on its own prerogatives, working a party that seemed as if it would never end.
 Peter Kaplan, the former editor of The New York Observer, attended the party and oversaw coverage of the event.
 ''Tina, for all the excellence of her antenna, was scratching the air, and like many of us, was unable to pull in the new signal,'' he said. ''She failed to see that it was probably already over and that there was something slightly hollow about that event.''
 Most of us who covered media did not fully understand the implications of the new technology that could publish and distribute information at zero marginal cost. The Web was viewed as a niche, as a way to supplement and enhance the printed product, certainly not a threat that would make many of those publications obsolete. 
 ''Most of the talk at the Talk party was about the party itself,'' said Kurt Andersen, a novelist, radio host and founder of Spy magazine. ''It was weird and interesting because you were sort of wandering around in the dark out there and bumping into people. There was a meta quality to the thing, a self-consciousness, that in retrospect was probably telling.''
 At least Ms. Brown did not compose a rap ode to the new magazine. That fell to Mr. Big, Ron Galotti, the former Conde Nast publisher who managed to get a flock of advertisers to buy the hype and commit to the first four issues of a magazine they had never seen. After Talk closed, Mr. Big quit Manhattan media and moved to a farm in Vermont. Maybe he knew something we didn't. (He did not return a call.)
 ''It was the end of something extraordinary, but none of us knew it at the time,'' Ms. Brown says now. ''What followed was a very turbulent odyssey, not just for me, but for all of us. There has been a volcanic realignment that none of us foresaw.''
 After Talk closed early in 2002, Ms. Brown hosted a television show on CNBC and wrote a book about Princess Diana. Demonstrating a nimbleness that has characterized her entire career, she is now running The Daily Beast, a scrappy but promising digital media site owned by Barry Diller's InterActiveCorp. 
 She pays her writers, increasingly an exception these days, but there are no huge contracts or boat rides to sylvan lawns full of impossibly famous people. The Daily Beast has 1.5 million unique visitors a month, according to Quantcast, and has kicked up some notice, but its opening party of a hundred or so took place at the very much land-locked Pop Burger on Ninth Avenue in Manhattan. There was no Sarah Jessica Parker, no Robert De Niro and no Hugh Grant in attendance. There were a lot of bloggers instead.
 Modern media success is enabled by brutal cost control and using hard, fast numbers to convince advertisers they will get a return for their spending. Once stalwart magazines like BusinessWeek are up for grabs and entire formerly lucrative categories have been wiped out. The magazine canard of associative glamour, of selling aspiration by the bucket-load with page after page of pricy merchandise, is all but dead but for a few exceptions. 
 Ms. Brown once wrote the book ''Life as a Party'' and on that night, it was. 
 ''I was aware it was a historic night,'' Ms. Brown said. ''We were on a boat and I was with Natasha Richardson. We were talking and laughing, looking at the lights of the twin towers. And then a big wave came over the side of the boat and soaked us both. Now Natasha is gone, the towers are gone. It's very, very sad, but I am very excited by this new world we are heading into.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Eisner, former chief of Walt Disney, and the editor Tina Brown.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (75%); PRINT ADVERTISING (62%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (70%); CONDE NAST PUBLICATIONS INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (70%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (70%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



74 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: After the F-22

 BODY:
We were pleased to see the House join the Senate in voting to end the F-22 jet fighter program. The votes were important victories in President Obama's effort to ensure that the Pentagon spends precious tax dollars on essential equipment -- not glitzy, self-indulgent toys. 
 But the struggle over military reform is just beginning. It was only after Mr. Obama promised to veto a $600 billion-plus defense spending bill that Congress acquiesced to capping production of the F-22 -- which was designed to fight the Soviet Union and has not been used in Iraq or Afghanistan -- at 187 planes (four more than we think are merited). 
 Even with the threat of other presidential vetoes, there is still plenty of support -- among lawmakers, lobbyists and defense contractors -- for other weapons and other spending the Pentagon says it can do without. The parochial pushback is being led by members of Mr. Obama's own party.
 Just look at the House bill, approved 400 to 30. It seeks to finance billions of dollars (by some estimates more than $6 billion) in weapons that the Pentagon did not request and/or the administration rightly wants to kill or cut back. These include more than $400 million for the new presidential helicopter, $560 million for an alternate engine for another new fighter plane (the F-35), $674 million for three extra C-17 transport planes and an additional $603 million for the F-18 fighter jet program. 
 The House also reaffirmed its undying addiction to projects lawmakers insert in legislation to curry favor in their districts. Led by Representative John Murtha, head of the defense appropriations subcommittee, the House beat back efforts by two Republicans, Jeff Flake and John Campbell, to cut up to $2.7 billion in such earmarks. You would think Mr. Murtha might scale back, given the ongoing investigation into a lobbying firm with ties to him and other congressmen over insider contracts. 
 The situation so far is better in the Senate, where financing for the helicopters and the alternate engine were eliminated in a first draft defense bill. But there is every expectation that there will be a fierce fight over these and other programs in the process of reconciling competing versions with the House.
 Defense Secretary Robert Gates has made a compelling case for ending programs that significantly exceed their budgets or use limited tax dollars to buy more capability than the nation needs. Given the changed nature of warfare, the United States must invest in systems with ''maximum versatility'' and can no longer afford weapons that are ''clearly out of control, performing poorly and excess to the military's real requirements,'' he said in a speech in Chicago.
 That is sound reasoning, especially when the country is engaged in two wars and battered by recession. The choices are tough, but we hope that when the final defense bill is passed, Democratic Congressional leaders will ensure that the F-22 is not the only major unneeded weapon system to have been axed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VETO (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); HELICOPTERS (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN P MURTHA (78%); JEFF FLAKE (58%); ROBERT M GATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



75 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Weighs Cutting Off Iran's Gasoline Imports if Nuclear Talks Are Rejected

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
The Obama administration is talking with allies and Congress about the possibility of imposing an extreme economic sanction against Iran if it fails to respond to President Obama's offer to negotiate on its nuclear program: cutting off the country's imports of gasoline and other refined oil products.
 The option of acting against companies around the world that supply Iran with 40 percent of its gasoline has been broached with European allies and Israel, officials from those countries said. Legislation that would give Mr. Obama that authority already has 71 sponsors in the Senate and similar legislation is expected to sail through the House. 
 In a visit to Israel last week, Mr. Obama's national security adviser, James L. Jones, mentioned the prospect to Israeli officials, they said.
 The White House refused Sunday to confirm or deny the contents of Mr. Jones's discussions. But other administration officials said that they believed his goal was to reinforce Mr. Obama's argument that the Israeli government should stop dropping hints about conducting a military attack against Iran's nuclear facilities if no progress is made this year, and to give the administration time to impose what Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton calls ''crippling sanctions'' that might force Iran to negotiate. 
 The Bush administration considered, and rejected, trying to engineer a cutoff of gasoline to Iran, which produces oil but does not have enough refining capacity to meet its own needs for gasoline. 
 But enforcing what would amount to a gasoline embargo has long been considered risky and extremely difficult; it would require the participation of Russia and China, among others that profit from trade with Iran. Iran has threatened to respond by cutting off oil exports and closing shipping traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, at a moment that the world economy is highly vulnerable.
 Mr. Obama has said nothing in public about the possibility since a presidential debate last October with Senator John McCain of Arizona. ''If we can prevent them from importing the gasoline that they need, and the refined petroleum products, that starts changing their cost-benefit analysis,'' Mr. Obama said at the time. ''That starts putting the squeeze on them.''
 Now, the White House will not discuss the issue at all. Denis McDonough, a deputy national security adviser, said the administration would not comment on any of its private discussions with allies. But European diplomats confirm that in recent weeks they have held private talks with administration officials about whether to move toward such a sanction if Iran ignores Mr. Obama's deadline to begin talks by the opening of the United Nations session in mid-September. 
 Assessing how effective such a cutoff might be -- even if Russia, China and most of Europe went along -- has been complicated by the political turmoil inside Iran. 
 Some analysts have argued that the action could further destabilize a weakened regime; others say it could be exploited by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to change the subject from the still-challenged presidential election to Iran's confrontation with the West. 
 ''Draconian sanctions did not make sense in 2005 and 2006,'' said R. Nicholas Burns, who led the Bush administration's Iran strategy as under secretary of state for policy. ''But given the new weakness and vulnerability of the Ahmadinejad government, much tougher sanctions make sense now, with one caveat,'' he said in an interview. Congress, he said, must give Mr. Obama complete flexibility to threaten, impose or waive the sanctions, if he has any hope of holding together a coalition of countries.
 Mr. Burns and other Iran experts testified last week at a hearing held by the Senate Banking Committee, whose chairman, Senator Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, declared that ''our job is to arm the president with a comprehensive set of tough sanctions designed to ratchet up pressure on the Iranian regime.'' 
 Some of the co-sponsors say the Senate bill, the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act, is a more prudent way to deal with Iran's nuclear program than authorizing the president to use military means if necessary, as the Senate did for President George W. Bush when he was confronting Saddam Hussein. 
 There is similar legislation in the House, and Representative Jane Harman, a California Democrat active in intelligence and national security issues, said over the weekend that ''most people think that this is how you really hurt Iran.'' She predicted the bill would ''breeze through'' both houses of Congress. 
 But easy passage would not make the sanctions any easier to carry out. As the Bush administration discovered as it pushed through three mild sanctions resolutions at the United Nations, Iran has enormous leverage over companies and countries dependent on its oil production. As Mr. Burns warned, ''If Americans are the only ones sanctioning, those sanctions will not succeed.''
 One of the Iran experts who testified last week, Suzanne Maloney of the Brookings Institution, cautioned that Iran was so porous it could circumvent an oil cutoff, and that the potential for confrontation would be high. ''The Iranians are not terribly good at capitulation,'' Ms. Maloney said. ''This is a regime that tends to believe the best defense is a good offense.''
 The legislation would impose sanctions on any company that sold or delivered gasoline to Iran, cutting it off from selling to the United States government and seeking to freeze its financing or shipping insurance. But many experts fear that true enforcement would require patrols off the Iranian coast, and that could lead to confrontations with the Iranian Revolutionary Guards.
 The White House has been extraordinarily tight-lipped about its Iran strategy, and has not publicly discussed the legislation. But already it has become part of the behind-the-scenes maneuvering with Israel. Israeli officials have argued in recent weeks that the American unwillingness to confront North Korea more forcefully as it develops a nuclear program was evidence that the United States might be willing to tolerate an Iranian nuclear weapons capability. 
 Mr. Obama's aides, in return, worry that the Israelis are trying to force action too soon by shortening their estimate of how long it would take Iran to manufacture a weapon. In fact, no one knows how quickly it might be able to do so, but it has already solved many of the technological problems. 
 ''The question we have to face,'' one American diplomat said, ''is whether any sanction at this point can really deter them, given how close they are now.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); GASOLINE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JAMES L JONES (73%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (94%); ISRAEL (94%); CHINA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



76 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: 'Funny People' Disappoints at Box Office

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
''Funny People'' sputtered at the weekend box office, weakening Judd Apatow's batting average as a director and continuing a slump at Universal Pictures.
 The movie, a two-and-a-half-hour look at stand-up comedians, one of whom is dying (Adam Sandler), sold an estimated $23.4 million in tickets at North American theaters over the weekend, according to box office tracking services.
 The total, though enough for No. 1, would be soft even if less were riding on it. The studio, part of NBC Universal, has stumbled badly this summer, with its expensive ''Land of the Lost'' virtually ignored by audiences and ''Bruno'' and ''Drag Me to Hell'' not meeting expectations. Universal was counting on ''Funny People'' to reverse its box office fortunes, or at least perform strongly enough to quiet speculation here about a management shakeup. 
 Universal's ''Public Enemies'' has become a sleeper success, so far selling about $100 million in tickets at domestic theaters. But the film cost an estimated $100 million to produce.
 ''Funny People'' was expensive too. It cost about $75 million, a sharp increase from the budgets Universal allotted to ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' and ''Knocked Up,'' Mr. Apatow's previous directing efforts. Those films, both smash hits, each cost $30 million or less to make.
 Universal rejected the notion that ''Funny People'' was anything but a success.
 ''It was a pleasure to be supportive of Judd's move into a more serious and dramatic kind of film,'' said Adam Fogelson, president for marketing and distribution. ''No regrets. I'm excited to watch how the film evolves'' at the box office. He dismissed the industry's higher expectations as ''a lot of our competitors whispering.''
 Mr. Fogelson said ''Funny People'' should not compared with other films directed by Mr. Apatow (even though the studio leaned heavily on those titles to promote this one). Rather, he said, the proper comparisons were to movies like the dramatic comedy ''As Good as It Gets.'' Adjusting for inflation, that 1997 film, starring Jack Nicolson, opened to $19.7 million and went on to sell $148.5 million in tickets.
 The studio, strangely, also compared ''Funny People'' to ''Spanglish,'' perhaps because it also starred Adam Sandler in a more serious role. That 2004 movie -- regarded in Hollywood as a bomb -- opened to an adjusted $10.2 million and sold $48.8 million in tickets. It cost about $90 million.
 Relativity Media and Columbia Pictures helped shoulder the cost of making ''Funny People.'' Last week Universal increased its bets on Mr. Apatow, signing him to a three-picture directing deal.
 Warner took the No. 2 spot for the weekend, with ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,'' which was helped by its arrival on Imax screens. It sold an estimated $17.7 million in tickets, bringing its cumulative domestic total to $255.5 million.
 Another struggling studio, Walt Disney Pictures, saw ''G-Force'' drop to third place after opening at a soft No. 1 last week. The movie, about gun-toting guinea pigs, sold an estimated $17.1 million in tickets over the weekend for a new total of $66.5 million.
 ''G-Force,'' a combination of live action and computer-generated animation, faces an arduous road to profitability. News reports have pegged its cost at $150 million; Disney does not comment on price, but the company last week singled out the film as a reason the studio reported a loss in the most recent fiscal quarter.
 The romantic comedy ''The Ugly Truth'' (Sony) was fourth, selling an estimated $13 million ($54.5 million total). Another animated-live action hybrid, ''Aliens in the Attic,'' from 20th Century Fox, flopped badly in its opening weekend, placing fifth with an estimated $7.8 million.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adam Sandler, left, and Seth Rogan co-star in ''Funny People.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/UNIVERSAL PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVENUES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); BUDGETS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (57%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



77 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: As Banks Retreat, Valley Financier Looks to Fill a Gap

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Silicon Valley's money-making engine is stalled as technology start-ups find it harder to sell themselves or go public. 
 Part of the blame, entrepreneurs and investors say, falls on the big investment banks. Even if a start-up ready to go public attracts the attention of the big banks, it is less likely to get the service of a top partner, venture capitalists say. A start-up looking for advice on raising money or merging will have an even harder time. 
 For Frank P. Quattrone, the dot-com banker sidelined for four years as he fought and ultimately beat charges of obstruction of justice, that vacuum has provided the opportunity to insert himself once again into Silicon Valley's thorniest negotiations and most lucrative deals. 
 Mr. Quattrone, a star Silicon Valley investment banker who advised hundreds of companies during the dot-com boom of the late 1990s, has been quietly counseling about 20 technology companies since March of last year, when he started Qatalyst Partners, a boutique merchant bank. 
 His fingerprints are showing up on prominent deals, including EMC's acquisition of Data Domain for $2.4 billion in July. He advised Google during Microsoft's unsuccessful takeover bid for Yahoo. But he is also taking a hands-on role advising much smaller venture-backed start-ups on how to navigate the new Silicon Valley. 
 In an interview, Mr. Quattrone said the advisory role that big banks used to play has faded. They have ''expanded into one-stop commercial supermarkets, and bankers became product salespeople, not necessarily advisers,'' he said. 
 He envisions his role in Silicon Valley as ''a catalyst, and possibly senior adviser, cheerleader, truth-teller, participant.'' 
 A little more attention is welcome in the Valley. ''The big banks have just exhibited really bad behavior the last few years in backing away from the Valley,'' said Marc Andreessen, a founder of Netscape and a partner in a new venture capital fund, Andreessen Horowitz. ''But especially when you're a small or midsized company, scrambling to make your way in the world, especially when things get bad in the broader environment, that's when you need the help. Frank is walking into a market that's just wide open.'' 
 During the 1990s, young technology companies were served by big investment banks and smaller ones, including a group of boutique banks known as the Four Horsemen -- Robertson Stephens, Hambrecht & Quist, Alex. Brown and Montgomery Securities. After the bubble burst, the small banks went out of business or were acquired, and the big banks shifted their focus to large companies that paid bigger fees. 
 Recent consolidation in the banking industry has made the situation more dire. Today, fewer than 200 investment banks actively underwrite public offerings; a decade ago, there were almost 300, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 But now, a new breed of banks -- the Web 2.0 version of the Four Horsemen -- is slowly emerging. Instead of initial public offerings, which are rare these days, the banks focus on mergers. Most advertise hands-on service and will not only take on a historically small $100 million deal, but also will assign it a name-brand partner. In addition to Qatalyst, these banks include Montgomery & Company and Allen & Company, an older bank newly interested in technology. 
 Mr. Quattrone rose to fame when he helped touch off the dot-com boom by taking Netscape public in 1995. He was the banker behind more than 100 public offerings of small technology companies, including some that became very large, like Amazon.com and Cisco. 
 After the dot-com crash, Mr. Quattrone spent four years fighting obstruction of justice charges in connection with an investigation of Credit Suisse, where he ran the hugely successful technology investment banking practice. A federal appeals court overturned a conviction against him in 2006, and Mr. Quattrone and the government reached an agreement under which the charges were dismissed in 2007. 
 He decided to get back to the business he knows best: advising technology entrepreneurs who want to ''change the world to make it a better place,'' as he put it -- and making lots of money in the process. 
 Running a boutique bank is a job Mr. Quattrone knows well. Though he has spent most of his career at big banks -- first Morgan Stanley, then Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse -- he essentially built boutiques within them. 
 Mike Kwatinetz, now a partner at Azure Capital Partners, who worked as head of technology research for Mr. Quattrone for many years, described it this way: ''Our brand was Frank. It wasn't Deutsche Bank or, later, Credit Suisse. It was Frank.'' 
 Mr. Quattrone's experience and contact list, his willingness to dig into the details of a negotiation and his deep knowledge of both finance and technology extend his advice beyond mergers and acquisitions, those who have worked with him say, including Aneel Bhusri, chairman of Data Domain. 
 In May, NetApp, a storage company, offered to buy Data Domain, which makes backup technology, for $1.8 billion, about twice its market value. But a few days before that deal was to be announced, EMC, a NetApp competitor, asked for a meeting. 
 The Data Domain board then had to decide whether to check to see if other acquirers might express interest. If it did, it risked slowing the deal, sharing confidential information with competitors and potentially losing the NetApp offer. 
 Mr. Quattrone suggested a different strategy: accept NetApp's bid but leave the door open to other suitors.
 ''That advice turned out to basically set up the bidding war dynamic that ensued,'' said Mr. Bhusri, a venture capitalist at Greylock Partners. The back and forth continued. Data Domain ''needed to provide some incentive for the party with more firepower to bid more,'' Mr. Quattrone said. In July, EMC agreed to buy Data Domain for $2.4 billion, more than three times the stock price in March. The deal closed that month.
 Mr. Quattrone recently advised a start-up in the portfolio of the venture capital firm Accel that was attracting interest from two large public Internet companies, said Jim Breyer, an investor with Accel. 
 The company's management came up with the sum it thought the company was worth. Mr. Quattrone bluntly told them it was worth less, Mr. Breyer said, and walked them through an analysis of the valuation, potential outcomes and what the public markets might look like in a year. 
 The company remained private. It is now more realistic about its valuation and what it needs to do to go public, Mr. Breyer said. Start-ups like this ''need to depend on the boutique investment bankers perhaps more than ever,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Quattrone of Qatalyst Partners sees himself as ''a catalyst, and possibly senior adviser, cheerleader, truth-teller, participant.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (52%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); ROBERTSON STEPHENS (51%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: MARC ANDREESSEN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



78 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Obama Aides See Signs of Recovery but Say It Will Be Slow

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's top economic advisers gave upbeat assessments of the American economy on Sunday, predicting an imminent start to a recovery, but a slow and arduous one compared with previous rebounds.
 ''Six months ago, when the president took office, we were talking about whether recession would become depression,'' Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Obama's top economic adviser, said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''Today we are talking about when recession is going to end.''
 Still, he cautioned that ''the economy is not going to be back to normal for quite some time. Our problems weren't made in a month or a year, and they're not going to be fixed in a month or a year.''
 But behind even that cautious appraisal lies a huge guess about a supremely important unknown: How will American consumers react to the staggering losses in their personal wealth over the last two years? 
 American households have lost about $14 trillion in wealth, more than their collective earnings from all sources of income last year. 
 Never before have American families absorbed that kind of blow to their wealth, and the timing could not have been worse. It comes after years during which Americans had almost stopped saving and just before the vast population of baby boomers reaches retirement age. 
 Economic forecasters now assume that consumers will be digging out of their holes for the next several years, saving much more and spending much less of their incomes than in recent decades. Already, the savings rate has risen sharply in this recession, from nearly zero to 5.2 percent of income, the highest level since 1998, according to the Commerce Department
 A further rise in savings would have big implications for an economic recovery. The more consumers save, the less they spend, which in turn means slower economic growth. Since consumer spending accounts for about 70 percent of American economic activity, the aftershocks of the downturn could be formidable. 
 Even so, forecasters admit they have little idea what to expect. Will Americans revert to the meager savings rates of the mid-1990s, or to the much higher rates of the 1970s and 1980s? Will the new frugality be temporary, or will it amount to a generational shift like the caution that gripped Americans after the Depression?
 ''Predicting consumer behavior over the next year or two is beyond hazardous,'' said Alan Blinder, a professor of economics at Princeton. ''There is nothing in the historical record like the boom and bust in house prices that we've just experienced.''
 The political implications are momentous. With Mr. Obama's poll ratings down measurably in the last month, the White House was quick to highlight estimates released Friday showing that the economy shrank by only 1 percent in the three months that ended in June -- a much smaller decline than the 6.4 percent plunge in the previous quarter.
 Those estimates seem to have emboldened Mr. Obama's economic advisers, providing a basis for their claim that the danger of a financial collapse has all but disappeared. But they acknowledged that consumer and business confidence was still weak and that a second dip remained possible.
 The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, appearing Sunday on ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos'' on ABC, reeled off a list of hopeful indicators, including an 11 percent jump in home sales in June and a 1.5 percent reduction in jobless claims.
 ''There are signs that the recession is easing,'' he said. But he cautioned that ''we have a ways to go'' and that ''we need to make Americans more confident about the future.''
 An agonizingly slow recovery could sap President Obama's popularity and political strength. It could also feed even bigger budget deficits, reducing his ability to finance goals like health care reform.
 White House officials say they fully expect consumers to pull back modestly on their spending but they add that rising exports and business investment could make up the difference.
 ''I've never counted on consumers going back to their profligate ways,'' Christina D. Romer, who heads the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in an interview on Friday. ''My feeling is that people will be saving more, that the trade deficit will be lower and business investment will be higher.''
 She went on: ''I think that's a good thing, and the president thinks that's a good thing. You're getting rid of the bubble-and-bust economy.''
 Many private economists are less certain. Forecasters have long relied on a rough rule to predict the so-called wealth effect, which holds that every dollar of lost wealth prompts consumers to reduce their spending by 3 to 5 cents. 
 But some analysts caution that the wealth shock is different this time. It is not just the magnitude of the loss, they say. It is also that the loss comes largely from collapsing home values, while previous shocks have resulted from declining stock prices. 
 That contrast is significant, because if many or most people thought of the wealth in the homes as permanent, and as a big part of their retirement nest eggs, they might cut back their spending much more than if their loss had come from a potentially short-term plunge in stock prices. 
 Moreover, the decline in home values has prompted banks to cut back sharply on the amount homeowners can borrow against their houses, curtailing a significant source of consumer spending.
 On the other hand, it is possible that many owners viewed their houses as homes and did not plan to cash in on them at retirement. If that turns out to be the case, people might not worry much about their home's market value and the wealth shock might turn out to be modest.
 ''We don't have any historical experience with the household sector taking this kind of a hit,'' said Robert Barbera, chief economist at ITG, an investment advisory firm. ''No one knows what a normal savings rate is.'' 
 Analysts say the most recent jump in savings rates was probably just a temporary blip, as consumers received Social Security rebate checks and saved much of the extra cash.
 If people are trying to rebuild their old nest eggs, economists said, Americans may feel compelled to increase their savings well above current rates. 
 Many forecasters currently assume that the savings rate will peak around 7 or 8 percent, but others predict it will climb to 10 percent or higher. That would mark a return to the savings rates of 7 to 10 percent that prevailed from the end of World War II through the end of the 1980s.
 Each percentage point is meaningful. If the savings rate hits 10 percent, officials at the Federal Reserve suspect that the recovery next year will be even weaker than expected. ''The consumer would be a big retardant to the recovery,'' said Mr. Blinder, the Princeton professor.
 At this point, Fed and White House officials say they can only guess about what is to come for the economy.
 ''That is exactly the question we're all grappling with,'' Ms. Romer said. ''We're in uncharted territory.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, and Christina D. Romer, a top economic adviser to the president, were upbeat.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS
 BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES)(B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); FAMILY (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); RETIREMENT AGE (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (65%); HISTORY (60%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



79 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: A New Gap for Albany

 BODY:
New York's wayward state senators finally say they are ready to return to Albany this week and vote in favor of mayoral control of schools in New York City. That is the right thing to do for the city's 1.1 million students. But the few thoughtful members of the tainted Senate club need to be figuring out the next step -- how the state will stay afloat as revenues drop and expenses steadily rise. 
 Gov. David Paterson brought out the latest bad news last week: the state budget that looked balanced in April now faces a $2.1 billion budget gap that will more than double in the next fiscal year.
 Wall Street has often provided Albany a cushion against hard times. This year, state budget officials estimate that income tax revenues will be down more than $1.1 billion from earlier budget estimates. Sales tax revenues are also grim, dropping at an ''unprecedented'' rate, according to the governor's budget office. That decline is far worse than after the Sept. 11 attacks or during recessions going back to the 1980s. 
 Mr. Paterson has wisely asked his putative lieutenant governor, Richard Ravitch, to come up with a plan by early next month for cutting state expenses. Governor Paterson has said that he does not think raising taxes again is wise after the state added more than $5 billion to taxpayers' bills this year. 
 That means Mr. Ravitch, who helped save New York City from bankruptcy in the 1970s, will have to present a straightforward way to cut costs without the usual Albany subterfuge. His mission will be to find cuts in the big budgets for health care and education, including trims in rapidly rising Medicaid and pension costs. 
 That will not be popular, of course. Last year when Governor Paterson tried to fill a smaller budget gap, Democrats resisted noisily and Republicans offered little help, preferring mostly to criticize from the sidelines. New Yorkers deserve better than that this year. Governor Paterson is on the correct course, and what the state needs are legislators to help him stay on it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MEDICAID (78%); MAYORS (78%); SALES TAX (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



80 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Rewarding Bad Actors

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Americans are angry at Wall Street, and rightly so. First the financial industry plunged us into economic crisis, then it was bailed out at taxpayer expense. And now, with the economy still deeply depressed, the industry is paying itself gigantic bonuses. If you aren't outraged, you haven't been paying attention.
 But crashing the economy and fleecing the taxpayer aren't Wall Street's only sins. Even before the crisis and the bailouts, many financial-industry high-fliers made fortunes through activities that were worthless if not destructive from a social point of view. 
 And they're still at it. Consider two recent news stories.
 One involves the rise of high-speed trading: some institutions, including Goldman Sachs, have been using superfast computers to get the jump on other investors, buying or selling stocks a tiny fraction of a second before anyone else can react. Profits from high-frequency trading are one reason Goldman is earning record profits and likely to pay record bonuses.
 On a seemingly different front, Sunday's Times reported on the case of Andrew J. Hall, who leads an arm of Citigroup that speculates on oil and other commodities. His operation has made a lot of money recently, and according to his contract Mr. Hall is owed $100 million. 
 What do these stories have in common?
 The politically salient answer, for now at least, is that in both cases we're looking at huge payouts by firms that were major recipients of federal aid. Citi has received around $45 billion from taxpayers; Goldman has repaid the $10 billion it received in direct aid, but it has benefited enormously both from federal guarantees and from bailouts of other financial institutions. What are taxpayers supposed to think when these welfare cases cut nine-figure paychecks? 
 But suppose we grant that both Goldman and Mr. Hall are very good at what they do, and might have earned huge profits even without all that aid. Even so, what they do is bad for America.
 Just to be clear: financial speculation can serve a useful purpose. It's good, for example, that futures markets provide an incentive to stockpile heating oil before the weather gets cold and stockpile gasoline ahead of the summer driving season.
 But speculation based on information not available to the public at large is a very different matter. As the U.C.L.A. economist Jack Hirshleifer showed back in 1971, such speculation often combines ''private profitability'' with ''social uselessness.''
 It's hard to imagine a better illustration than high-frequency trading. The stock market is supposed to allocate capital to its most productive uses, for example by helping companies with good ideas raise money. But it's hard to see how traders who place their orders one-thirtieth of a second faster than anyone else do anything to improve that social function.
 What about Mr. Hall? The Times report suggests that he makes money mainly by outsmarting other investors, rather than by directing resources to where they're needed. Again, it's hard to see the social value of what he does.
 And there's a good case that such activities are actually harmful. For example, high-frequency trading probably degrades the stock market's function, because it's a kind of tax on investors who lack access to those superfast computers -- which means that the money Goldman spends on those computers has a negative effect on national wealth. As the great Stanford economist Kenneth Arrow put it in 1973, speculation based on private information imposes a ''double social loss'': it uses up resources and undermines markets.
 Now, you might be tempted to dismiss destructive speculation as a minor issue -- and 30 years ago you would have been right. Since then, however, high finance -- securities and commodity trading, as opposed to run-of-the-mill banking -- has become a vastly more important part of our economy, increasing its share of G.D.P. by a factor of six. And soaring incomes in the financial industry have played a large role in sharply rising income inequality. 
 What should be done? Last week the House passed a bill setting rules for pay packages at a wide range of financial institutions. That would be a step in the right direction. But it really should be accompanied by much broader regulation of financial practices -- and, I would argue, by higher tax rates on supersized incomes.
 Unfortunately, the House measure is opposed by the Obama administration, which still seems to operate on the principle that what's good for Wall Street is good for America. 
 Neither the administration, nor our political system in general, is ready to face up to the fact that we've become a society in which the big bucks go to bad actors, a society that lavishly rewards those who make us poorer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); FUTURES (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (74%); HEATING OIL (73%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



81 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Blue-State Blues

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
We know because he said so, in the first of many famous speeches, that Barack Obama doesn't see Red America or Blue America -- he only sees the United States of America. But as the president contemplates his faltering poll numbers and his stalling health-care push, he might want to consider a more colorful perspective. 
 The red-blue contrast is often overdrawn. But it's a sensible way to understand Obama's summer struggles. On health care, energy, taxes and spending, he's pushing a blue-state agenda during a recession that's exposed some of the blue-state model's weaknesses, and some of the red-state model's strengths. 
 Consider Texas and California. In the Bush years, liberal polemicists turned the president's home state -- pious, lightly regulated, stingy with public services and mad for sprawl -- into a symbol of everything that was barbaric about Republican America. Meanwhile, California, always liberalism's favorite laboratory, was passing global-warming legislation, pouring billions into stem-cell research, and seemed to be negotiating its way toward universal health care.
 But flash forward to the current recession, and suddenly Texas looks like a model citizen. The Lone Star kept growing well after the country had dipped into recession. Its unemployment rate and foreclosure rate are both well below the national average. It's one of only six states that didn't run budget deficits in 2009.
 Meanwhile, California, long a paradise for regulators and public-sector unions, has become a fiscal disaster area. And it isn't the only dark blue basket case. Eight states had unemployment over 11 percent in June; seven went for Barack Obama last November. Fourteen states are facing 2010 budget gaps that exceed 20 percent of their G.D.P.; only two went for John McCain. (Strikingly, they're McCain's own Arizona and Sarah Palin's Alaska.) Of the nine states that have raised taxes this year, closing deficits at the expense of growth, almost all are liberal bastions. 
 The urban scholar Joel Kotkin has called this recession a blue-state ''meltdown.'' That overstates the case: The Deep South has been hit hard by unemployment, and some liberal regions are weathering the storm reasonably well. And clearly part of the blame for the current crisis rests with decisions made in George W. Bush's Washington.
 But in state capital after state capital, the downturn has highlighted the weaknesses of liberal governance -- the zeal for unsustainable social spending, the preference for regulation over job creation, the heavy reliance for tax revenue on the volatile incomes of the upper upper class. 
 And, inevitably, the tendency toward political corruption. The Republicans have their mistresses, but the Democrats are dealing with a more serious array of scandals: the Blagojevich-Burris embarrassment in Illinois, Senator Christopher Dodd's dubious mortgage dealings in Connecticut, the expansive graft case in New Jersey, and a slew of corruption investigations featuring Democratic congressmen. 
 This helps explain why the Republican Party might be competitive in the Northeast for the first time in years. Chris Christie is easily leading Jon Corzine in the race for New Jersey's governorship. Rob Simmons might unseat Chris Dodd in Connecticut. Rudy Giuliani, who has experience with blue-state crises, is pondering a run for the statehouse in New York.
 And it also helps explain Obama's current difficulties. The president is pushing a California-style climate-change bill at a time when businesses (and people) are fleeing the Golden State in droves. He's pushing a health care plan that looks a lot like the system currently hemorrhaging money in Massachusetts. His ballooning deficits resemble the shortfalls paralyzing state capitals from Springfield to Sacramento.
 ''Never let a serious crisis go to waste,'' Rahm Emanuel remarked last fall. But in a crisis, all the public tends to care about are jobs and economic growth. It's not the ideal time to pass costly social legislation that promises to reap dividends only in the long term, if at all.
 That's why Franklin Roosevelt waited until 1935, when the Great Depression seemed to be waning, to push Social Security through Congress. It's why Lyndon Johnson established Medicare at the peak of the long post-World War II expansion. And it's why Massachusetts's health care plan and California's cap on greenhouse-gas emissions both passed at the height of the recent boom, rather than the bottom.
 Obama is still broadly popular, and the public is still broadly sympathetic to his administration's agenda. But the money has to come from somewhere. You can't have a bold new liberal era without the growth to pay for it. 
 The president wants to govern America like a blue state. But for that to work, he'll need the nation's economy to start performing more like Texas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); FORECLOSURE (68%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (68%); JOB CREATION (67%); CORRUPTION (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (53%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (52%); GLOBAL WARMING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); SARAH PALIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



82 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: White House Points to Economic Revival

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Top economic officials of the Obama administration gave upbeat assessments of the American economy on Sunday, asserting that the recession was bottoming out and predicting that the flagging gross domestic product would round the corner into positive territory before the end of the year.
 ''Six months ago, when the president took office, we were talking about whether recession would become depression,'' Lawrence H. Summers, the White House's top economic adviser, said on CBS's ''Face the Nation.'' ''Today, we are talking about when recession is going to end.'' 
 Timothy F. Geithner, the Secretary of the Treasury, gave a similar rosy analysis on ABC's ''This Week,'' after the host George Stephanopoulos had reeled off a list of hopeful indicators, including an 11 percent spike in home sale in June, a 1.5 percent reduction in jobless claims and a second-quarter drop in the G.D.P. of only 1 percent. Mr. Geithner said that there is a broad consensus among private-sector economists that the economy should see ''positive growth'' in the second half of the year.
 ''There are signs that the recession is easing,'' he said.
 He pointed out that American confidence is marred by high unemployment -- at almost 10 percent. Nevertheless, he said, growth in production should mean that the pace of job losses should slow further. He said that the administration is considering asking Congress for an extension of unemployment benefits as 1.5 million jobless Americans exhaust their benefits in coming months.
 Christina D. Romer, chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, also predicted growth in production by the end of this year and said that the Obama administration's pledge to create 3.5 million jobs should be realized by the end of next year.
 Speaking on CNN's ''State of the Union,'' she added this caveat: ''The slowdown is certainly slowing down, but we still have a long way to go before we hit bottom. Certainly it's going to be a long hard slog getting out of this.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. Geither and Mr. Summers soft-pedaled the possibility that taxes would have to be raised to close a more than $1 trillion deficit that they said would impede a sustained recovery, but they refused to rule out such tax increases, even on the middle class. 
 ''It's never a good idea to absolutely rule things out,'' Mr. Summers said.
 ''But what the president has been completely clear on is that he is not going to pursue any of his priorities -- not health care, not energy, nothing -- in ways that are primarily burdening middle-class families. That is something that is not going to happen.''
 In an appearance on NBC's ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Summers filled in more details about why he believes the economy will rebound.
 ''Inventories have been run down and firms are going to have to build those inventories back,'' he said. ''The evidence is that from a very, very low base housing production, automobile sales are likely to start to increase, and the Recovery and Reinvestment Program is going to gather force over the next six months, that people are able to spend more of the extraordinary tax assistance they've received as more and more of the 3,000 projects come on line and start to spend out. Already in Florida you've seen 14,000 teachers jobs that wouldn't have been there this spring preserved as a consequence of the Recovery Act.''
 While not explicitly calling for increased taxes, Alan Greenspan, the former chairman of the Federal Reserve, said on Sunday that a value-added tax or sales tax would be preferable because it ''raises revenue without significantly impact the economy.''
 Also appearing on ''This Week,'' Mr. Greenspan echoed the optimistic remarks of the Obama administration officials, saying said that the idea of economic ''collapse is now off the table.'' 
 While the economy was ''teetering for a while,'' he said, ''I'm pretty sure we've already seen the bottom.'' 
 A strong sign of this turnaround and consumers' willingness to spend, he said, was the enthusiastic response to the so-called ''cash for clunkers'' program that gave Americans rebates for turning in cars rated as fuel guzzlers for more efficient new cars. 
 ''If the clunker program had been put in place six months ago it would have been a dud,'' he said
 But he expressed a concern about whether home prices would stabilize and the impact another wave of falling prices might have on a resurgent economy. 
 There was a good deal more skepticism about the health of the economy from Republican legislators on Sunday, who also remained critical of the president's overhaul of the health-care system.
 Mike Pence, a Republican Congressman from Indiana, said on ''Fox News Sunday'' that while he hopes ''the recession is leveling off,'' he doubted it had anything to do with the Obama administration's stimulus bill, which was approved in February.
 ''We've lost two million jobs since the stimulus bill was passed,'' he said. ''And I think what we're seeing in the economy now is the inherent resilience of the American economy and the American people. And while those numbers are encouraging, what we ought to be doing is pursuing the kind of broad-based prescription for recovery and stimulating this economy that has always worked, which is fiscal discipline in Washington, D.C. and tax relief for working families, small businesses and family farms.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); FAMILY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); TAX LAW (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (78%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



83 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 3, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words

HEADLINE: Nissan Unveils Electric Car, To Be Available Next Year

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: YOKOHAMA, Japan 

 BODY:
Nissan, Japan's third-largest automaker, took the wraps off its much-awaited electric car on Sunday, naming the hatchback the Leaf. 
 Nissan and its French partner, Renault, have been aggressive proponents of pure electric vehicles with no emissions, announcing plans to mass-market the clean but expensive cars globally in 2012. 
 Nissan will begin selling the first Leaf cars in the United States, Japan and Europe toward the end of 2010, adding two more models soon after. It expects production to start with about 200,000 units a year.
 Coordinating the car's introduction with the inauguration of Nissan's global headquarters in Yokohama, south of Tokyo, the chief executive, Carlos Ghosn, drove up to the stage in a sky-blue Leaf prototype. Nissan is returning to the port city of Yokohama, where it was founded in 1933, after being based in Tokyo's high-end Ginza shopping district for 41 years.
 Hurt by sliding vehicle sales worldwide since the financial crisis hit last year, Nissan has suspended its goals set under a midterm business plan, with the exception of its aggressive push into electric cars.
 With oil prices topping $60 even in a recession and environmental regulations tightening all the time, Mr. Ghosn said he was optimistic about electric vehicles entering the mainstream, expecting them to represent one in 10 new cars globally by 2020.
 Other automakers like Toyota and Volkswagen have announced plans to start producing electric cars, but they say it could take decades for the vehicles to spread because of their high cost, limited driving range and long charging times with the current battery technology.
 Nissan did not announce pricing for the five-seater Leaf, but Mr. Ghosn said the price, without the expensive lithium-ion battery that Nissan is considering leasing, would be within the range of a comparable gasoline-engine car.
 The Leaf has a top speed of more than 76 miles an hour and a cruising range of at least 100 miles -- a distance that covers the needs of 80 percent of drivers, Nissan said.
 The carmaker has lagged its domestic rivals Toyota and Honda in offering hybrid cars, which have taken the Japanese market by storm this year with the help of government stimulus steps.
 For years, Mr. Ghosn has played down the importance of hybrid cars -- both for consumers hoping to save money at the pump and for manufacturers looking to make profit. But in what could signal a shift in strategy, Mr. Ghosn said Nissan would reserve the option of offering hybrid vehicles if the market demanded it. 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Aug. 3 about an all-electric car from Nissan and Renault misstated the initial production capacity for the car, to be called the Leaf. The initial production capacity will be 50,000 vehicles, not 200,000. (The company expects to have production capacity of 200,000 when the car is introduced globally in 2012.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nissan plans to start selling a new battery-powered all-electric car, the Leaf, next year in Japan, Europe and the United States.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ITSUO INOUYE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (79%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); BUSINESS PLANS (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (90%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%)

PERSON: CARLOS GHOSN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) KANTO, JAPAN (93%) JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2009



84 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Holy Cow! The Cubs' Sale Is Still in Limbo

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sportsbiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Cubs' sale might be ... it could be ... it is, well, no, it isn't. If Harry Caray were calling this drawn-out play, he would describe a deep fly ball that can't seem to land, 28 months after being pitched.
 The battle to acquire the Cubs and Wrigley Field (and 25 percent of Comcast SportsNet Chicago) from the Tribune Company is between the family of Thomas Ricketts and Marc Utay. 
 Each has bid at least $900 million. Ricketts's bid is believed to include more cash. 
 Each one is being financed, in part, by at least two of the same banks, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, which have both received government bailouts. Banks aren't lending hundreds of millions of dollars to just anybody these days, an indication of their confidence in the Cubs to generate enough cash to repay the loans. 
 Each bidder has submitted extensive, if not final, paperwork to Major League Baseball. 
 There may actually be little difference between the two. 
 ''We're waiting for Tribune to advise us of the selection of a bidder and the process for bankruptcy court approval,'' said Bob DuPuy, baseball's president and chief operating officer.
 Tribune filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last December but excluded the Cubs and Wrigley Field because they are profitable. Yet it is expected that after the creditors' committees give their input (favoring one bid or saying, ''We want more!''), Tribune will fold the team and the ballpark into the overall bankruptcy.
 That would doubtlessly inspire headlines like, ''Cubbies Go Broke!'' and T-shirts with the claim, ''101 Years Without a World Series and All We Got Was This Lousy Chapter 11 Filing.'' 
 But it would be a procedural move designed to expedite the sale, not an expression of financial peril.
 Peter S. Kaufman, the president and head of restructuring and distressed mergers and acquisitions at the Gordian Group, said companies delayed adding a subsidiary to a Chapter 11 filing ''to give the buyer the cleanest title known to man.'' 
 ''You lose as many liabilities as the court will let you,'' he said, ''and no one can argue that you didn't get enough.''
 After the Cubs and Wrigley leave the on-deck circle for their expected turn in the bankruptcy estate, it will be up to the bankruptcy court judge to assess the creditors' wishes (which can generally be translated as: we want the most cash and we want it now!); the judge could also reopen the bidding for a short time. Perhaps the slightly revived economy will prompt someone to offer $1 billion or more, but at some point, probably sooner than later, the judge will most likely tell Tribune which bidder is best. And Tribune will tell M.L.B.
 ''Every sale presents its unique challenges,'' DuPuy said. ''This has been a lengthy process complicated by Tribune's bankruptcy.'' It is possible that more than 800 days after the ''For Sale'' sign went up, owners could vote on the sale in November. A bidder needs approval from three-quarters of the owners. 
 Neither bidder has been speaking publicly. 
 The last time Ricketts, a Chicago bond underwriter whose family built the TD Ameritrade brokerage, was heard from was in a statement after he was chosen in January to negotiate exclusively with Tribune. 
 But because the Ricketts family's deal was not completed by the end of his exclusive negotiating period, Tribune brought back Utay and his better-known investor/partner, Leo Hindery, the former president and chief executive of the YES Network who now runs InterMedia Partners, a media investment firm. 
 Utay is the managing partner of Clarion Capital Partners, a Manhattan investment firm.
 ''To me, the second bidder looked like a negotiating tactic,'' said Rob Tilliss, a sports investment banker who is chief executive of Inner Circle Sports. ''It was classic Mergers and Acquisitions 101: after exclusivity ends, you say, 'Let's try to open this up.' In the bull market, you did it to get a higher price. In a recessionary market, it's to maintain the first bidder's price. Just to me, the tea leaves look like Ricketts is the preferred bidder.''
 Last week, Sam Zell, the real estate mogul who engineered the Tribune takeover in 2007, then led the company into bankruptcy, agreed with Tilliss's assessment -- to a degree -- during an interview on CNBC.
 Zell, Tribune's chairman, told the network's Maria Bartiromo that it would be ''safe to say'' that ''Mr. Ricketts is probably the leading player.'' Probably? Was Zell, whose real estate investment philosophy has earned him the nickname the Grave Dancer, being cute? Or was he trying to make Ricketts nervous -- and give Utay hope?
 At least Zell expressed some hope in the interview that ''in the very near future,'' the team would be sold. 
 How near, he can't say, since the bankruptcy shifted the decision-making power away from him.
 But Cubs fans, whose team is tied for first place in the National League Central, are used to waiting. Nearly 37,000 days have passed since the Cubs won their last World Series.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (77%); MERGERS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); BAILOUTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (72%); JUDGES (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); APPROVALS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MAMMALS (58%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (94%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



85 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: Safe at Home

BYLINE: By DALTON CONLEY. 
Dalton Conley, the dean of social sciences at New York University, is the author of ''Elsewhere, U.S.A.''

 BODY:
THE financial crisis has given rise to all sorts of wrongheaded ideas, among which is the notion that we should not subsidize the ''losers'' who can't make their mortgage payments. In fact, the solution to our troubles is not to restrict homeownership, but to expand it.
 The timing is right. Now that prices have collapsed in many areas, low-income Americans might be able to afford to purchase homes for the first time in years. Sales of new homes in June were down 21 percent from last year. This would seem an ideal time to encourage low-income families to buy homes -- if we weren't haunted by misconceptions about the roots of the subprime mortgage crisis. 
 This ''blame the victim'' mentality is hardly new. It goes back to the 1960s, when the anthropologist Oscar Lewis wrote an article whose title took root in the American public consciousness: ''The Culture of Poverty.'' His basic argument was that poor people adopt certain practices that differ from those of ''mainstream'' society in order to survive. These might include illegal work, multifamily households or serial relationships in place of marriage. Once these survival strategies are in place, the argument goes, they take on a life of their own and lead to missed opportunities.
 The popularity of the ''culture of poverty'' theory has had ups and downs over the decades; for example, in the 1980s the scholar Charles Murray argued that the poor responded as rationally as everyone else to economic incentives. 
 But Lewis's theories seem to have gained new life in the notion that a certain stratum of Americans just aren't capable of homeownership, and that the increase in homeownership rates contributed to the real estate bust. The ''natural'' rate should be around 60 percent of American households, some analysts say, not the 70 percent it reached in 2004. That's an unfortunate argument, because owning a home can be one of the best ways for a poor family to save and accumulate assets: recent history aside, the value of a house does typically rise, and its owner avoids paying rent and gets a tax break. 
 We could improve the housing market as well as the security of poor families by making homeownership more attainable. Currently, the biggest policy to support homeownership other than the mortgage interest deduction is the Federal Housing Administration's mortgage program, which works by insuring loans made to buyers through traditional lenders (that is, it decreases risk to lending agencies by underwriting the loan). However, many of the most disadvantaged Americans, and minorities in particular, do not qualify for F.H.A. loans because of their low net worth and other factors.
 Into this breach stepped a South Carolina organization called Self-Help. In 1998, Self-Help received a $50 million grant from the Ford Foundation. The money was used to insure the mortgages of low-wealth families that aspired to homeownership, but had trouble getting loans in the private market. More than $2 billion in mortgages were guaranteed over five years, making homeownership possible for 27,000 families that might not have qualified for conventional loans. 
 This experiment of sorts provided evidence that there was a market failure in mainstream lending that was shutting out deserving borrowers. The foreclosure rate of lenders participating in the program was below the national average. This tells scholars of finance that something is not working in the traditional loan market. Many borrowers who should have been able to qualify for traditional mortgages have been shunted into the subprime market, where higher interest rates and other disadvantageous terms produce a self-fulfilling tendency of loan default. 
 By expanding the Self-Help program ''to scale'' -- by underwriting mortgages for people who are now excluded from F.H.A. -- the government could not only support affordable refinancing of existing mortgages but could also extend the dream of homeownership to households now shut out of the market. 
 Instead of critiquing low-income buyers who may have made reasonable calculations in an upbeat housing market, we should focus on building a more comprehensive system to aid low-income purchasers and repair the housing market in the process. Otherwise, we are squandering an opportunity to move past ill-formed moral discourse about poverty and its causes.

CORRECTION-DATE: August 5, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Tuesday, about helping poor families buy houses, misstated the home state of Self-Help, a group that insures mortgages. It is based in North Carolina, not South Carolina.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); FAMILY (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (77%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



86 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Taps Former Chief Of MetLife

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Mary Williams Walsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The American International Group has found another executive willing to come out of retirement to take on the thankless task of leading a troubled insurer that was brought to the brink of financial collapse before being rescued through multibillion-dollar bailouts from the government. 
 A.I.G.'s board on Monday named Robert H. Benmosche, a former head of MetLife, to be chief executive of the company. He will take over from Edward M. Liddy, who was brought in by the government last year but has faced the task of defending a company that became a political symbol of excess on Wall Street. 
 Mr. Liddy is stepping down after 10 grueling months with a salary of $1 a year. Mr. Benmosche's pay package was not released but the company will have to disclose his employment contract in a regulatory filing.
 Mr. Liddy took on the job of chairman and chief executive of A.I.G. as a form of public service, but was castigated by members of Congress who seemed unable to separate him from the financial turmoil that he was trying to address. Even he said that the job was too big and complex as currently designed. 
 In March, for instance, A.I.G. was criticized for paying retention bonuses to people in its financial products unit, the division that sold the credit-default swaps that nearly brought A.I.G. to financial ruin.
 The bonus contracts were arranged before Mr. Liddy took charge last September, but angry members of Congress attacked the payouts as a waste of taxpayer money. Several employees of the unit were named in news articles and hounded by the public and shunned by their neighbors. 
 Afterward, the recipients of the bonuses complained that Mr. Liddy had not adequately come to their defense. Of the $165 million earmarked for these bonuses, some was returned by employees after the controversy. 
 Government aid to the company has ballooned to $182 billion, which the company is seeking to pay down partly by shedding assets. The government now owns nearly 80 percent of A.I.G.
 Since then, A.I.G. has sought the guidance of the Obama administration's pay czar, Kenneth Feinberg, on a variety of issues, including compensation for some of its top-ranked employees. Mr. Benmosche, 65, will take over from Mr. Liddy on Aug. 10. He will become a director but will not be chairman. The company said Mr. Benmosche was not available to comment.
 In a statement, Mr. Benmosche praised Mr. Liddy and others for ''a terrific job stabilizing A.I.G. and implementing a strategy to repay the company's stakeholders, including taxpayers.''
 During his tenure at MetLife, Mr. Benmosche rose from an executive overseeing business integration to the insurer's chief executive in 1998. 
 MetLife is now considered one of the country's stronger insurance companies. It has held talks with A.I.G. about a potential deal for one insurance unit, Alico. 
 Mr. Benmosche previously worked at PaineWebber, where he oversaw the takeover of another troubled firm, the former brokerage house Kidder Peabody. He also worked in various positions at Chase Manhattan Bank from 1976 to 1982. 
 Mr. Liddy has recommended that A.I.G. split his job of chief executive and chairman into two. In the coming weeks, the company will name another person to lead its board.
 Separately, A.I.G. said that Paula Rosput Reynolds, its vice chairman and chief restructuring officer, would leave by the end of September.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robert H. Benmosche, new head of the insurer A.I.G. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUSINESS WIRE) (pg.B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BONUS PAY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%)

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (94%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (94%); AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (94%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (94%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (94%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (89%); EDWARD M LIDDY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



87 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Years After Layoffs, Many Still Struggle to Match Old Salaries

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: RIVIERA BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
Chuck Dettman said he had not really considered the notion back in 2001 that he and his friends in a job-search support group would never recover from being laid off.
 The country was in a recession then, as now, and the professionals who had just lost their jobs met weekly at a local job center to network and trade advice. Despite the national economic problems, they remained confident that they would not only find work but would also be compensated as they had been in the past.
 Eight years later, however, most of the people who formed the core of Mr. Dettman's group have not made it back to their old income levels, even if they eventually landed jobs. 
 ''I think there's maybe only one or two that have been successful in making what they did then,'' Mr. Dettman said.
 Taken together, their struggles are stark illustration that it can take years for a worker's earnings to bounce back after a layoff, and that it can take even longer for a layoff during a recession. Economists, in fact, say income losses for workers who are let go in a recession can persist for as long as two decades, a depressing prognosis for the several-million people who have lost their jobs in the current recession.
 ''On average, most workers do not recover their old annual earnings,'' said Till von Wachter, an economics professor at Columbia University, who recently completed a working paper with two other economists that examined the long-term earnings of workers who lost their jobs in the recession of the early 1980s.
 Mr. Wachter studied workers who had been with their companies at least three years, then lost their jobs when their employers reduced their work forces by at least 30 percent. He found that even 15 to 20 years later, most on average had not returned to their old wage levels. He also concluded that their earnings were about 15 percent to 20 percent less than they would have been had they not been laid off.
 One of the main reasons for the drop-offs, according to economists, is that workers who endure a layoff are more likely to be laid off again.
 ''What tends to happen is the worker has to start over with a new employer, sometimes in a new industry,'' said Ann Huff Stevens, an economics professor at the University of California, Davis. ''You're at the bottom of the totem pole again.''
 (Although some unqualified workers are undoubtedly laid off, Mr. Wachter said he tried to correct for that possibility in his study. He focused on large-scale layoffs to ensure he was following mostly workers who lost their jobs through no fault of their own.)
 The largest wage losses are typically for workers who had long tenures at their previous companies. The stability often allows them to build up skills specific to their employers or their industries and to accrue corresponding wage increases, but those skills can be worth less to other companies.
 Older workers' wages usually slide more than those of younger workers. Those with college degrees do slightly better than those without.
 The networking group that Mr. Dettman helped form in 2001 was initially made up mostly of former colleagues of his from Pratt & Whitney, the jet engine maker, which laid off hundreds at the end of 2000 in a restructuring. The group members were all in their 40s and 50s. 
 Interviews with seven early members of the group found that many had been forced to drastically change their lifestyles to cope with lower incomes. Several have struggled with long bouts of unemployment. Some were laid off several times. Many have been forced to lean heavily on spouses' incomes.
 Mr. Dettman, who was a business analyst and earned just over $50,000 after nearly 20 years with Pratt, spent almost four years looking for work, exhausting his savings and his 401(k). He finally took a job as the chief financial officer of a drug and alcohol detox clinic run by his daughter and his son-in-law, getting paid three-quarters of what he used to make, without benefits. He quit two years ago to start his own Christian counseling service but has yet to draw a paycheck.
 Jim Clark, 60, a former engineering assistant at Pratt who made about $49,000 a year, went back to school to earn a bachelor's degree in organizational management but has still not found full-time paid employment. He now scrapes together about $20,000 a year as a cantor at his Roman Catholic parish on Sundays and by singing at weddings and funerals.
 The only former group member interviewed who is now earning more than she did before is Karen Carron, a 19-year Pratt veteran and computer programmer. Ms. Carron, 49, who has a master's degree in computer science, made about $69,000 a year as part of a team producing software for the F-35 Lightning II fighter jet.
 About a year-and-a-half after being laid off, she found herself doing almost exactly what she had done before, only this time for a Pratt contractor. She now earns $80,000 a year. 
 Ms. Carron said she was not familiar with other programming languages that are more broadly used, so she was lucky to have found a job working on the same project. Otherwise, she said, she would almost certainly have had to take a pay cut.
 In contrast, others in the group who managed to land steady paychecks have had to struggle to get back on track.
 David Himmelheber, 58, worked more than 20 years at Pratt in the graphics department, earning about $54,000 a year at the end. He was one of the first members of the group to find a job, but it was in an entirely new field, as a business liaison for a vocational school, making about half his old salary. He eventually moved to teaching social studies at the school and now makes about $40,000 a year. He also found work as an adjunct professor at a local college. The two teaching assignments combined, however, bring in less than what he used to make at Pratt.
 Bill Sankey, 62, a computer programmer, earned about $55,000 a year for a company that owned Pizza Hut franchises, before being laid off in 2001 when the company was sold. Since then, Mr. Sankey has been hired and laid off twice. At one point, he was making more than he did before his 2001 layoff. At his latest job, he is back to making about the same, though with inflation factored in, he is probably making less.
 ''I really haven't progressed anywhere financially in eight years,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dave Himmelheber earned $54,000 a year when he was laid off in 2001. His two teaching jobs now bring in less than that.(A1)
Chuck Dettman arriving at his Christian counseling service, Today's Promise, in Jupiter, Fla.
Jim Clark, with his wife, Jeanne, outside St. Paul of the Cross Church in North Palm Beach, Fla.
 Bill Sankey is now working for a construction company in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A12) CHART: Slow Recovery: Workers who lost their jobs in layoffs during the recession of the early 1980s on average did not return to their old wage levels even 15 to 20 years later.(Source: ''Long-Term Earnings Losses due to Mass Layoffs During the 1982 Recession'' by Till von Wachter, Jae Manchester)(A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (94%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



88 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Giant Particle Collider Struggles, Adding to Life's Mysteries

BYLINE: By DENNIS OVERBYE

 BODY:
The biggest, most expensive physics machine in the world is riddled with thousands of bad electrical connections.
 Many of the magnets meant to whiz high-energy subatomic particles around a 17-mile underground racetrack have mysteriously lost their ability to operate at high energies.
 Some physicists are deserting the European project, at least temporarily, to work at a smaller, rival machine across the ocean. 
 After 15 years and $9 billion, and a showy ''switch-on'' ceremony last September, the Large Hadron Collider, the giant particle accelerator outside Geneva, has to yet collide any particles at all. 
 But soon?
 This week, scientists and engineers at the European Center for Nuclear Research, or CERN, are to announce how and when their machine will start running this winter. 
 That will be a Champagne moment. But scientists say it could be years, if ever, before the collider runs at full strength, stretching out the time it should take to achieve the collider's main goals, like producing a particle known as the Higgs boson thought to be responsible for imbuing other elementary particles with mass, or identifying the dark matter that astronomers say makes up 25 percent of the cosmos. 
 The energy shortfall could also limit the collider's ability to test more exotic ideas, like the existence of extra dimensions beyond the three of space and one of time that characterize life.
 ''The fact is, it's likely to take a while to get the results we really want,'' said Lisa Randall, a Harvard physicist who is an architect of the extra-dimension theory.
 The collider was built to accelerate protons to energies of seven trillion electron volts and smash them together in search of particles and forces that reigned earlier than the first trillionth of a second of time, but the machine could run as low as four trillion electron volts for its first year. Upgrades would come a year or two later.
 Physicists on both sides of the Atlantic say they are confident that the European machine will produce groundbreaking science -- eventually -- and quickly catch up to an American rival, even at the lower energy. All big accelerators have gone through painful beginnings. 
 ''These are baby problems,'' said Peter Limon, a physicist at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory in Batavia, Ill., who helped build the collider.
 But some physicists admit to being impatient. ''I've waited 15 years,'' said Nima Arkani-Hamed, a leading particle theorist at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. ''I want it to get up running. We can't tolerate another disaster. It has to run smoothly from now.''
 The delays are hardest on younger scientists, who may need data to complete a thesis or work toward tenure. Slowing a recent physics brain drain from the United States to Europe, some have gone to work at Fermilab, where the rival Tevatron accelerator has been smashing together protons and antiprotons for the last decade.
 Colliders get their oomph from Einstein's equivalence of mass and energy, both expressed in the currency of electron volts. The CERN collider was designed to investigate what happens at energies and distances where the reigning theory, known as the Standard Model, breaks down and gives nonsense answers. 
 The collider's own prodigious energies are in some way its worst enemy. At full strength, the energy stored in its superconducting magnets would equal that of an Airbus A380 flying at 450 miles an hour, and the proton beam itself could pierce 100 feet of solid copper.
 In order to carry enough current, the collider's magnets are cooled by liquid helium to a temperature of 1.9 degrees above absolute zero, at which point the niobium-titanium cables in them lose all electrical resistance and become superconducting.
 Any perturbation, however, such as a bad soldering job on a splice, can cause resistance and heat the cable and cause it to lose its superconductivity in what physicists call a ''quench.'' Which is what happened on Sept. 19, when the junction between two magnets vaporized in a shower of sparks, soot and liberated helium.
 Technicians have spent most of the last year cleaning up and inspecting thousands of splices in the collider. About 5,000 will have to be redone, Steve Myers, head of CERN's accelerator division, said in an interview. 
 The exploding splices have diverted engineers' attention from the mystery of the underperforming magnets. Before the superconducting magnets are installed, engineers ''train'' each one by ramping up its electrical current until the magnet fails, or ''quenches.'' Thus the magnet gradually grows comfortable with higher and higher current.
 All of the magnets for the collider were trained to an energy above seven trillion electron volts before being installed, Dr. Myers said, but when engineers tried to take one of the rings' eight sectors to a higher energy last year, some magnets unexpectedly failed.
 In an e-mail exchange, Lucio Rossi, head of magnets for CERN, said that 49 magnets had lost their training in the sectors tested and that it was impossible to estimate how many in the entire collider had gone bad. He said the magnets in question had all met specifications and that the problem might stem from having sat outside for a year before they could be installed.
 Retraining magnets is costly and time consuming, experts say, and it might not be worth the wait to get all the way to the original target energy. ''It looks like we can get to 6.5 relatively easily,'' Dr. Myers said, but seven trillion electron volts would require ''a lot of training.''
 Many physicists say they would be perfectly happy if the collider never got above five trillion electron volts. If that were the case, said Joe Lykken, a Fermilab theorist who is on one of the CERN collider teams, ''It's not the end of the world. I am not pessimistic at all.'' 
 For the immediate future, however, physicists are not even going to get that. Dr. Myers said he thought the splices as they are could handle 4 trillion electron volts.
 ''We could be doing physics at the end of November,'' he said in July, before new vacuum leaks pushed the schedule back a few additional weeks. 
 ''It's not the design energy of the machine, but it's 4 times higher than the Tevatron,'' he said.
 Pauline Gagnon, an Indiana University physicist who works at CERN, said she would happily take that energy level. ''The public pays for this,'' she said in an e-mail message, ''and we need to start delivering.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Magnets that whiz subatomic particles around the Large Hadron Collider have lost their ability to operate at high energies.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VALERIO MEZZANOTTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (91%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHYSICS (90%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (78%); HIGGS BOSON (78%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (74%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN LABORATORY FOR PARTICLE PHYSICS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



89 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: Radio Free America

BYLINE: By NANCY SINATRA. 
Nancy Sinatra is a singer.

DATELINE: Los Angeles 

 BODY:
 WHEN I hear great American standards on the radio, I think of all the songwriters, artists and musicians whom my father, brother and I have worked with over the years. It reminds me that every recording has two parts, the composition and the performance. It also reminds me how many wonderful artists and musicians have not been paid fairly for their work.
 Songwriters and publishers are paid when their tunes are played on the radio, but none of the artists or musicians who bring the music to life receive even a penny. The Senate Judiciary Committee is holding a hearing today on legislation that will right this wrong, which dates back to the early days of sound recordings. 
 My father, Frank Sinatra, and singers like Tony Bennett, Bing Crosby and Perry Como fought for years for performance royalties from radio stations, arguing it was unfair that performers are not paid and citing cases like Helen Forrest that show the harsh side of this injustice. 
 Helen was one of the most gifted singers of the 1940s. Known as the ''Voice of the Name Bands,'' she had hits like ''I Cried for You'' and ''I Had the Craziest Dream.'' Sadly, Helen spent her last years practically destitute because she received nothing when her songs were played on the radio. 
 This fight isn't just about featured artists. There are thousands of background singers and session musicians who deserve to be paid for their work, too. 
 Radio station owners argue that artists receive free promotion from airplay of their records. This is simply untrue. Most of the music played on AM and FM radio is at least two years old. And the practice of ''backselling'' -- mentioning the name and performer of the song that was just played -- has fallen into such disuse that a decade ago the nation's largest radio station operator, Clear Channel, asked for $24,000 per title to mention the song's artists on the air. It's no surprise that companies unwilling to even recognize artists on the air would also be averse to paying performance royalties.
 Terrestrial radio is the only radio platform that still doesn't have to pay these royalties. Internet radio and satellite radio pay artists when they play their records, so do cable television music channels. In fact, AM and FM radio stations that stream their signal online pay performance royalties. 
 The United States is one of a small number of countries where artists and musicians are not compensated when their music is played on over-the-air radio. Because the United States doesn't have performance royalties, radio stations in countries that do collect them do not have to pay American artists. In many of these countries, American artists make up as much as 50 percent of radio airplay, and this prevents millions of dollars -- industry estimates are $100 million year -- from flowing into our economy.
 I believe in a performance royalty because recording artists and musicians from every generation deserve to be compensated for their art. 
 My father became an icon by putting his inimitable stamp on songs from ''My Funny Valentine'' to ''My Way'' and ''Come Fly With Me.'' When he sings, ''Weatherwise it's such a lovely day'' in ''Come Fly With Me,'' he lingers on the word ''lovely,'' and you can actually imagine yourself floating in a blue sky on a lovely day. 
 He brought music to life with his own style just as every artist does when he takes notes and words on a page and sings or plays them in his own way. Singers and musicians, as much as songwriters, create something when they perform -- and we should make sure all artists are paid when their creations are heard on the radio.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO-ILLUSTRATION (PHOTO-ILLUSTRATION BY JASON FULFORD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (95%); MUSIC (92%); SONG WRITING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); INTERNET AUDIO (73%); SATELLITE RADIO (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



90 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: S.&.P. Rises Over 1,000 On Optimism for Growth

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
For thousands of investors whose portfolios are benchmarked to the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, recovery was a thing with four digits on Monday.
 The closely watched stock index closed above 1,000 for the first time since Election Day, hardening beliefs that stock markets would continue to march higher as the recession showed signs of bottoming. Like other market gauges, the S.& P. 500 is still off more than a third from its record highs, but it has soared from its bear-market lows and is now up 11 percent for the year.
 The day's gains added more momentum to a three-week surge that lifted the Dow above 9,000 points as banks and major corporations showed they could still turn profits even as job losses mounted and the prospects for near-term economic growth remained cloudy. 
 Waves of optimism about global industry lifted the price of oil, grains, metals and other commodities, as traders bet that a recovery would drive global consumption higher and revive the demand for raw materials. 
 Automakers were reaping an increase in sales from the government's ''cash for clunkers'' program, which gives credits to motorists who trade in their vehicles for new, more fuel-efficient ones. The Ford Motor Company reported that sales rose 2.3 percent in July, its first monthly sales increase since 2007. 
 Shares of Ford gained 4 percent, and American-traded shares of the foreign car companies Toyota, Nissan and Honda were all higher. 
 Analysts said the deluge of subsidized auto sales unmasked a sign of economic recovery: pent-up consumer demand. Although consumer spending fell at a rate of 1.2 percent during the spring, consumers are more confident than they were last winter and still willing to spend money when enticed by a bargain.
 ''The key here is, where's the consumer mindset?'' said Marc Pado, market strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald. ''Consumers, when they perceive the bottom, are willing to jump out and buy high-priced durable goods. The consumer's getting hungry.'' 
 Signs of improvement in the industrial sectors of China, Europe and Britain bolstered stock markets in Asia, London, Paris and Frankfurt. And more positive readings on manufacturing and the housing market in the United States propelled stock markets on Wall Street toward their highest levels of the year.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 114.95 points, or 1.25 percent, to end at 9,286.56, the best close since early November. The S.& P. 500 rose 15.15 points, or 1.53 percent, to close at 1,002.63. The Nasdaq composite index gained 1.5 percent to cross above the 2,000-point threshold, a line it had not breached since early October. Leading the way were companies that sell oil and natural gas, and those that manufacture basic materials like steel, paper products or plastic. Investors rushed to buy their shares as the price of oil rose more than $2, to $71.58 a barrel, and the prices of gold and copper also surged.
 But the stock market's gains were the dollar's losses -- and the Treasury market's. 
 The dollar index, which weighs the currency's value against six major currencies, fell to its lowest levels since late September. 
 The price of 10-year Treasury notes fell 1 7/32, to 95 27/32, as investors anticipating an economic recovery sought out higher-yielding investments. The yield on the 10-year note rose to 3.63 percent, from 3.48 percent late Friday.
 A surprising, though slender, 0.3 percent increase in construction spending in June also leavened the mood on Wall Street and offered optimistic forecasters another sign that the housing market was near bottom, if not already staging a recovery. 
 Builders spent more money in June to construct new homes, hotel projects, commercial centers and other projects, the Commerce Department reported on Monday. Part of the overall rise came from a 1 percent increase in government construction spending as stimulus projects began to get under way.
 And the Institute for Supply Management reported that manufacturing activity contracted at its slowest pace since last August as businesses reported more orders and higher production than previous months and improvements in employment conditions. The group's manufacturing index rose to 48.9 in July, from 44.8 a month earlier.
 ''This is good news, though we still can't be sure if further sustained strength is possible in the face of continued consumer deleveraging,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, wrote in a research note. ''This could just be a catch-up after the post-Lehman disaster.''
 Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: CONSTRUCTION SPENDING: Total construction spending at a seasonally adjusted annual rate. (Source: Commerce Department)
THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (73%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); AUTOMAKERS (67%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (65%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CANTOR FITZGERALD LP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); PARIS, FRANCE (52%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



91 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'ADDICTED TO BEAUTY'; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Tucking, Augmenting and Office Politics

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
According to the latest statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, the number of breast enlargement surgeries performed in the United States decreased 12 percent from 2007 to 2008. Doctors dependent on tummy tucks for revenue streams had an even more challenging time, the number of procedures having declined by 18 percent during the same period. 
 The society blames the economy for the downturn, but in the way that you don't give up lobster if you live in Deer Isle, Maine, you don't give up looking like Miss January if you live within 200 miles of Los Angeles or San Diego. Despite the fiscal cruelties that have been plaguing California, there has been no statewide movement to embrace the aesthetic of flat-chestedness. That alone would seem to justify the existence of ''Addicted to Beauty,'' a new reality series on Oxygen (beginning on Tuesday) set in a plastic surgery clinic and spa in the La Jolla section of San Diego, run by people whose altered lips balloon so far that they seem to be threatening the air supply to their nostrils. 
 Named as if it were in the business of drug rehab, Changes is staffed by ambitious go-getters like Natasha, an executive assistant who makes her life goals known early on, proclaiming, ''One day I hope to have a medical spa of my own.'' 
 Natasha has issues with Gary, who mans the front desk but takes to prolonged primping behind the scenes. Scolding him as he grooms his hair at work when he should be answering phones and persuading clients to buy rejuvenation cream, Natasha warns him in no uncertain terms that ''flat ironing should be done at home.''
 There are many improvements that of course cannot be made at home, and the problem with management at Changes is that it is always sending employees mixed messages. Where this is all going to end up, who knows, but right now it seems as if someone ought to call in McKinsey. 
 Dianne, the chief businesswoman, for instance, wants Shannyn, the spa director, to get her teeth fixed, even though Shannyn has already made manifest her commitment to the corporate cause by upgrading her bra size to a point that leaves her suitable only for a very limited number of work environments. 
 Dianne tells her, essentially, that her priorities are all wrong and that she should have taken care of her dentistry first because now she is sending the message to potential clients that it is O.K. to be imperfect when, really, it isn't O.K. And spaces between your teeth that aren't Lauren-Hutton dead center presumably constitute a greater visual crime than merely showing up with a sad and sorry C cup.
 ''Addicted to Beauty'' aims to be ''The Office'' with liposuction, the emphasis placed on staff politics rather than on patient shenanigans. But that doesn't make the series any less perverse. (It should be remarked that we do get to see a young servicewoman come in for a spruce-up. ''There's actually a lot of females who have had breast augmentation in the Marine Corps,'' says Khalee, a corporal.) 
 There are always client-recruitment parties at Changes, and when it looks as if Gary might not get to do the makeup for some of the guests, he vehemently protests to his superiors: ''I went to beauty school. I did go to school. I did put my 600 hours in. I deserve to do makeup too, you know I do a good job, you know I have worked on a lot of elitist patients.''
 Of course, any show about plastic surgery called ''Addicted to Beauty'' ought to be called ''Addicted to Looking Like Joan Rivers'' because nobody looks good; everybody merely appears as desperate as Gary sounds. I'd like to think that the producers are canny enough to keep providing panoramic shots of the Southern California coastline to remind us that silicone has got nothing on, let's call it, nature's own contours. Somehow, though, I seriously doubt this was their intent.
 ADDICTED TO BEAUTY
 Oxygen, Tuesday night at 11, Eastern and Pacific times; 10, Central time. 
 Produced by Intuitive Entertainment and RDF USA. Concept by Scott Dunlop and Mike Duffy; Mr. Duffy, Greg Goldman and Chris Coelen, executive producers for RDF USA; Mechelle Collins and Kevin Dill, executive productions for Intuitive Entertainment; Mr. Dunlop, executive producer for Dunlop Entertainment. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Greg and Shannyn in the reality show ''Addicted to Beauty.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM TAYLOR/OXYGEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (94%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); DENTISTRY (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Addicted to Beauty (TV Program); Addicted to Beauty (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



92 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Milwaukee Theater Has Drama Of Its Own

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

DATELINE: MILWAUKEE 

 BODY:
Founded in 1959, the Skylight Opera Theater grew into a beloved local institution. Its mix of less frequently heard and classic operas, musicals and revues has drawn a devoted audience and a core of loyal performers.
 But now, in a case of ''Figaro'' meets ''Fargo'' (minus the wood chipper), the company in this polite and earnest city is facing a meltdown. It has suffered demonstrations, petitions, mass resignations of performers, subscriber revolt and Facebook vitriol interpreted by management as violent threats.
 Happy, um, 50th birthday, Skylight.
 The tale began with an affliction that has become depressingly ordinary in the recession: budget woes that the administration said would require the elimination of five positions in June, including those of artistic director and company manager. 
 Some performers and supporters of the company revolted, fueled by the work of several exceptionally energetic and thorough bloggers who chronicled every development and channeled every complaint. Also at work was an insider-outsider rift that pitted a new managing director and fresh board members against Milwaukeeans with a proprietary feeling for the little theater that could in a city that takes its robust cultural scene seriously
 The fracas has led two dozen people -- singers, actors, directors and designers -- to withdraw from performances next season, the 50th, and has cost the company at least a dozen subscribers and a handful of donors.
 The catalyst was the departure of William Theisen as artistic director. Mr. Theisen was widely respected for his work as a stage director and actor, and was looked up to by many in the Milwaukee theater scene. A longtime presence in the city, he had been on the job since 2004. But on June 16, the managing director, Eric Dillner, who had been at the company for barely a year, announced that Mr. Theisen's position would be eliminated. He said he would take over ''artistic coordination and administration'' himself.
 ''I was so shocked,'' Mr. Theisen said. ''I thought it was a huge mistake.''
 The company, Mr. Dillner said in an interview last week, was under severe financial pressure. About $1 million in maintenance had been deferred, including a war on termites, and an additional $200,000 in savings had to be found in a $3.3 million annual budget, after he had already carved out $400,000 in savings. Mr. Theisen's full-time position was deemed expendable because he would stay on and direct individual productions, Mr. Dillner said, including ''The Barber of Seville,'' ''The Marriage of Figaro'' and two other shows this season. 
 He said the decision was ultimately made by the executive committee of the board of directors after a complete review of operations. ''My job was discussed,'' Mr. Dillner said. ''Every person's job was discussed.''
 But Mr. Dillner bore the brunt of the animosity. An outcry ensued. Demonstrations formed outside the theater in Milwaukee's artsy Third Ward, and petitions circulated on the Internet. Tom Strini, the music and dance critic of The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, called for Mr. Dillner to resign. The music director, Jamie Johns, denounced the company's actions outside the theater in a tirade captured on YouTube. 
 ''I believe he is a menace to this company and to this community,'' Mr. Johns said on the video. He was quickly fired. 
 In a later interview Mr. Johns expressed the general themes of the criticism: that Mr. Dillner, a former opera singer and general and artistic director of the Shreveport Opera in Louisiana, had designs on seizing the artistic reins; that he had little musical theater experience; that the Shreveport Opera gave only a handful of performances a season compared with about 100 at the Skylight. Mr. Dillner and the board were also faulted for failing to respond to concerned performers and theatergoers. 
 ''There could have been many other solutions that put the art of the company first,'' said Richard Carsey, a former Skylight artistic director who withdrew from two productions next season. 
 In an interview Mr. Dillner, a former house tenor at New York City Opera, said that he never had any intention of becoming artistic director and that whatever the critics say of his experience, the search committee, which included Mr. Theisen, was happy with him. 
 Mr. Dillner said he respected Mr. Theisen's directing abilities tremendously and suggested that the local performers were upset because without Mr. Theisen, they wrongly feared losing opportunities at the Skylight. At the same time, he said, at least one person pulled out of an audition because disgruntled performers threatened to ostracize him. Mr. Dillner said the performer declined to be named.
 Several dissidents strongly denied that such pressure had been applied. ''We understand you have to work,'' said Norman Moses, who was a longtime Skylight performer. 
 While the vehemence of the response took him aback, Mr. Dillner said it was understandable. ''We pay these people every day to get up onstage and live drama for us,'' he said. ''How can we be surprised?'' As for not responding to the concerns of performers and audiences, he said the flood of e-mail messages, blog postings and commentary was overwhelming. 
 At times in recent weeks, Mr. Dillner's hold on the job seemed tenuous. At one point the board appeared split, voting 16 to 12 to keep him. On another occasion, apparently without his knowledge, it decided it would try to rehire Mr. Theisen, who declined the offer. 
 Mr. Dillner also said a longtime former director of the company privately offered a sum of ''severance'' money for him to leave. ''He said he would make it worth my while,'' Mr. Dillner said.
 Amid the turmoil the board chairwoman, Suzanne Hefty, resigned; she did not respond to a telephone message asking for comment. Her temporary replacement, Terrance Kurtenbach, strongly endorsed Mr. Dillner. ''He has been superb in terms of running the company amidst a crisis,'' Mr. Kurtenbach said. 
 To understand what is happening here, all parties say, one must understand the nature of the place. 
 After operating in a former tire-capping factory, the Skylight moved to its own home in 1993, where it has operated out of a renovated former grocery warehouse and, next door, a reproduction of an 18th-century theater from the South of France. It is an intimate, warm house that seats 350, with three balconies and a fake fresco canvas on the ceiling with paintings that include the faces of performers and patrons. 
 The ashes of Clair Richardson, a beloved figure who was a co-founder of the Skylight and ran it for nearly 20 years, are under the stage. Performers fondly remember traditions like the bread break, when a member of the prop department would pull a loaf out of her bread maker every day at around 3 p.m. and share it with anyone who was in the building. 
 Performers who got their start at the Skylight have stuck around for 20 or 30 years. But now some have withdrawn from next season's productions, saying they felt a breach of trust.
 ''It forgot its roots,'' said Rebecca Spice, a Milwaukee singer and actress and longtime Skylight performer who is depicted on the theater ceiling. ''I feel as if we've all been betrayed.''
 In mid-July, things seemed to be quieting down. Then came the Facebook incident. 
 Two singers with minor roles in ''Barber,'' Bryce Lord and Jon Stewart, were fired on July 17 because of comments they posted right after the Theisen announcement. Responding to a poster who said that if the company patriarch Mr. Richardson were alive, he would put his cigar out in ''someone's eye,'' Mr. Lord said he'd ''be glad to hold 'someone' down for him.'' Mr. Stewart chimed in, ''I'll cap his knees with an aluminum baseball bat.''
 Mr. Dillner said he took the comments as personal threats and, after consulting with the company's lawyer, ordered the men dismissed. Mr. Dillner said the comments were out there for all to see, including patrons. ''I don't want them concerned that there is somebody violent in the building,'' he said. 
 Mr. Stewart and other performers scoffed at the notion that the words were threatening. Mr. Stewart called his comments ''sarcastic, defensive humor.'' 
 With the firing of the two men, the dam broke. Mr. Theisen withdrew from directing the productions. ''I thought, 'I can't go back to this world,' '' Mr. Theisen said. Performers pulled out in waves. They included Kurt Ollmann, a baritone with a major career, who was to have performed the Count in ''Figaro.'' 
 Several blogs -- including those of Tony Clements, a Skylight alumnus and friend of Mr. Thiesen's (tuesdaysblog.com), and Mr. Strini (''The Old Song and Dance,'' at jsonline.com) -- scrupulously detailed the events. Mr. Strini left his position at The Journal Sentinal on July 31. 
 Mr. Dillner said he had lined up a director and key performers for the operas, and he expected to fill the other vacancies. One revue will be replaced. 
 Mr. Kurtenbach, the temporary board chairman, acknowledged that the company could have done a better job in making its financial problems clear. It has taken steps to repair the damage, he said: a board member has been charged with talking to members of the local artistic scene; a committee was formed to discuss the company's artistic direction; performers will be added to the board. Mr. Dillner has also brought in an outside public relations consultant.
 Both sides say that the turmoil has proved one thing: that people care about the Skylight. 
 ''How many organizations have so many participants that are this passionate and drawn to it?'' said Amy Jensen, a former finance director. ''It's gold.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric Dillner, managing director at the Skylight Opera Theater in Milwaukee.(C1)
 Above, Terrance Kurtenbach, interim chairman of the Skylight Opera Theater in Milwaukee, meeting with those concerned about developments at the company. Below left, William Theisen, former artistic director. Below right, the playhouse.(C5)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATHAN MILLIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); RESIGNATIONS (71%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (53%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (92%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



93 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: New President Tries to Get Toyota Back on the Road

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Mary M. Chapman contributed reporting.

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
General Motors, Ford and Chrysler are not the only ones working through wrenching restructurings. Toyota is, as well, though with a much lower profile.
 The results have yet to show, and in fact, no one at Toyota expects 2009 to be anything but dismal. (On Tuesday, the company reported a loss of $819 million for the first quarter.)
 Its new president, Akio Toyoda, has moved quickly since taking charge in June, when he declared his dismay at the company's financial crisis. 
 ''Like everyone in the company, I am extremely frustrated'' about the automaker's decline, Mr. Toyoda said at his first news conference as president. ''So we must start again from the ground up.'' 
 His first target was Toyota's top management. Already, 40 percent has retired or been reassigned.
 Four of Toyota's five executive vice presidents, the group that now leads the company under Mr. Toyoda, are new to their jobs. Only one, Takeshi Uchiyamada, Toyota's product development chief, is a holdover from the team that surrounded Mr. Toyoda's predecessor, Katsuaki Watanabe.
 Further, the four newcomers are each in charge of a global region on top of duties within the company. (Mr. Uchiyamada is the only one with a single focus.)
 Now Mr. Toyoda is headed for the United States. On Wednesday, he will address a management seminar sponsored by the Center for Automotive Research, near Traverse City, Mich., an annual gathering of the clan in the auto industry.
 Toyota dealers and employees, many of whom know Mr. Toyoda from the years he worked in the United States, are eager for a shot of adrenalin from their new boss, the grandson of Toyota's founder.
 ''He knows the business,'' said P. Compton Cramer Jr., the owner of Cramer Toyota of Venice, Fla., who first met Mr. Toyoda a decade ago.
 ''He's going to bring a new kind of energy to the company,'' added Josephine Cooper, Toyota's group vice president of government and industry affairs, who had been Mr. Toyoda's hostess in Washington before his promotion.
 Mr. Toyoda's biggest problem, executives and analysts say, is transforming a lineup dotted with mundane-looking vehicles that buyers bought because of their reliability, not because of their style appeal. 
 It is a problem shared with Detroit, where executives are striving to inject their automobiles with excitement, too. Unlike G.M., Ford and Chrysler, however, Toyota cannot reach back to its roots and tap into a DNA of sexy sheet metal. 
 And it faces a difficult balancing act: become too aggressive, and Toyota risks chasing off the practical-minded consumers who have been its base for a half-century. Some have already been scared off.
 Pamela Templeton, an owner of Fort Myers Toyota in Florida, said Toyota was caught ''a little flat-footed'' when gas prices hit record levels last year. Despite a longtime focus on small cars, the company bet heavily this decade on trucks like the Tundra and sport utility vehicles like the FJ Cruiser.
 So did Ms. Templeton, who spent $13 million to open a separate 165,000-square-foot showroom just for light trucks. The market's demise forced her to eliminate customer pampering like a massage chair and cappuccino machine. ''We had to make hard choices, and I'd rather keep people than fluff,'' she said.
 Only two years ago, Toyota was riding the crest of a deliberate growth strategy in which it doubled in size and became the world's biggest car company. Although most carmakers have suffered, Toyota's rapid decline shocked many at the automaker and the experts who follow it.
 Yoshimi Inaba, named by Mr. Toyoda as Toyota's new head of North American operations, faces heavy pressure to turn things around here. ''Without North America, we are not likely to come back to global proficiency,'' Mr. Inaba told reporters in Detroit last month.
 Toyota has an advantage over its Detroit rivals in its streamlined processes for engineering and building its cars, said James P. Womack, an author and expert on company efficiency. But he said the company, famous for caution and self-reflection, strayed when growth, not quality, became its main concern.
 ''They sort of quit being paranoid,'' Mr. Womack said. ''I'm neutral to buy on Toyota over the long term. It's going to take them a while to get back on their feet.''
 Ms. Cooper faces a unique concern in Washington, where the Obama administration spent $65 billion this year to shepherd G.M. and Chrysler through bankruptcy and to pay for their restructurings. 
 She said she was constantly being asked how her company, which spent years trying to emphasize its investments in the United States, viewed the White House support for its rivals.
 ''My job is to make sure there is not more attention paid to Toyota because of this,'' Ms. Cooper said.
 But Toyota cannot avoid scrutiny as it decides what to do with its half of New United Motor Manufacturing Inc., or Nummi, a 25-year-old joint venture with G.M. in Fremont, Calif.
 G.M. has pulled out of the deal and classified the plant as one of the assets of the old G.M., which are being liquidated in bankruptcy. 
 Toyota said last week that it might dissolve its half of the venture, which was the brainchild of Mr. Toyoda's father, Shoichiro Toyoda, and paved the company's way into the American car market in 1984.
 That has set up a confrontation with the United Automobile Workers union, which represents workers at the plant. Sergio Santos, the local union president, argues that the plant's experienced work force is among the country's best, consistently ranking ahead of other Toyota factories on productivity surveys.
 ''We have Super Bowl trophies to back up what we do,'' Mr. Santos said.
 Union leaders are pressing lawmakers in California to provide incentives so Toyota can keep the plant open, while U.A.W. leaders have urged members to lobby Congress for worker protections.
 Even if the venture dissolves, Mr. Santos said he hoped the plant could be sold back to Toyota or another new owner like Roger Penske, the former racecar driver and entrepreneur who recently purchased Saturn.
 Senior executives in Japan will make the final decision on Nummi, Ms. Cooper said. 
 Closing the plant would be a turning point for Toyota, representing both the end of its first chapter in the United States and an acknowledgment of its harsh financial reality, Mr. Womack said.
 He said the downturn had presented Toyota with the chance to stop emulating Detroit and to detour to a more realistic path.
 Ms. Templeton, the Florida dealer, agreed. ''Instead of trying to be the manufacturer for everyone, they need to get back to being the best,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Akio Toyoda, president of Toyota, is the grandson of its founder. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROLAND/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
 Pamela Templeton, a Toyota dealer in Florida, said higher gas prices surprised the automaker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMANDA INSCORE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) CHARTS: FEWER INCENTIVES, EVEN NOW: Over the last five years, Toyota's market share has increased and so have its incentives, although it still does not spend close to the industry average. (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); NEW CAR DEALERS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (54%); FORT MYERS, FL, USA (53%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



94 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Restoring Auto Dealerships

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''Showroom Politics'' (editorial, July 27): 
 You argue that restoring dealerships would endanger the reorganized General Motors and Chrysler companies. In fact, G.M. and Chrysler need more dealers to succeed, not fewer. Dealers are sources of revenue for manufacturers, and they don't cost the manufacturers a dime. 
 Auto manufacturers are closing hundreds of profitable dealers, thereby weakening the economic engine that allows manufacturers to sell their products and services.
 Under the planned reorganization, there would be fewer domestic dealerships than import dealerships, despite the fact that there are roughly 150 million Detroit-brand cars on the road versus 87 million import vehicles. The math simply doesn't add up. These dealership closings will not reduce manufacturers' costs but instead may lessen Detroit's chances of rebuilding in the future.
 Lawmakers in Washington need to encourage automakers to reinstate the dealers that they have marked for termination. Doing so would increase the revenue necessary to pay back the federal investment in them and improve manufacturers' long-term success.
 Jack Fitzgerald Co-chairman Committee to Restore Dealer Rights Bethesda, Md., July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR DEALERS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



95 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Their Eggs in Their Backyard Nests

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
As Americans struggle through a dismal recession, many are trying to safeguard themselves from what they fear will be even worse times ahead. They eat out less often. They take vacations closer to home. They put off buying new cars. 
 And some raise chickens. Lloyd Romriell, a married father of four in Annis, Idaho, recently received seven grown chickens and a coop from a relative. The hens lay a total of about two dozen eggs a week. 
 ''It's because times are tough. You never know what's going to happen,'' Mr. Romriell said. Although he manages a feed store, he had not kept chickens since he was a child. ''If you lose your job tomorrow, you've still got food.''
 As a backyard chicken trend sweeps the country, hatcheries that supply baby chicks say they can barely keep up with demand. Do-it-yourself coops have popped up in places as disparate as Brooklyn, suburban Chicago and the rural West. 
 In some cities, the chicken craze has met with resistance, as neighbors demand that local officials enforce no-poultry laws. In others, including Fort Collins, Colo., enthusiasts have worked to change laws to allow small flocks (without noisy roosters).
 For some, especially in cities, where raising chickens has become an emblem of extreme foodie street cred, the interest is spurred by a preference for organic and locally grown foods. It may also stem in part from fear, after several prominent recalls, that the food in the supermarket is no longer safe.
 But for many others, a deep current of economic distress underlies the chicken boomlet, as people seek ways to fend for themselves in tough times. Even if spreadsheets can demonstrate that raising chickens at home is not cost-effective, it may instill an invaluable sense of self-reliance. 
 ''I'm not into that organic stuff,'' Mr. Romriell said. ''I think people in bigger cities want to see where their food comes from, whereas us out here in the West and in small towns, we know the concept of losing jobs and want to be able to be self-sustained. That's why I do it.''
 Commercial hatcheries, which typically ship baby chicks around the country by airmail, say they are having one of their best years, on top of exceptionally strong sales last year. Most of the birds go to farm supply stores, but many hatcheries are increasingly making small shipments directly to people who want just a few birds for a backyard flock. The postal service said that in the first six months of this year, it shipped 1.2 million pounds of packages containing chicks (mostly chickens but also baby ducks and turkeys), a 7 percent increase from the comparable period last year. That volume equals millions of birds, as the average chick weighs slightly more than an ounce. 
 Marie Reed, a sales representative for Ideal Poultry, a large Texas hatchery, said that managers of rural feed stores that sell the company's birds told her they had seen a spike this year in demand for baby chicks, along with an upturn in sales of garden seeds -- and ammunition. 
 ''People are buying up guns and chickens and seed,'' Ms. Reed said. ''That tells me people are wanting to depend on themselves more.''
 Yet, even as many people see raising chickens as a hedge against hard times -- and a way to get tastier eggs and meat -- they often acknowledge that it is not really a way to save money on food.
 ''You can buy eggs in the grocery store cheaper than you can raise them,'' said David D. Frame, a poultry specialist who works with the Utah State University Extension. ''You're not saving money by doing it.''
 He said that feed represented 75 percent of the cost of raising a bird. Commercial poultry operations that buy huge amounts of feed at wholesale have much lower costs per bird than the backyard chicken enthusiast can typically achieve.
 Jasmin Middlebos, 36, a librarian who lives with her husband, a sheriff's deputy, and their three children in a rural area outside Spokane, Wash., began raising chickens last year. She now has 26 birds, which produce up to two dozen eggs a day. (In hot weather, production can drop by half, and in winter it can stop altogether.) In September, she began selling some of the eggs -- she gets $2 to $3 a dozen -- and started keeping track of her income and expenses. 
 Since then, Ms. Middlebos said, she has taken in $457 from egg sales and spent $428, mostly on feed. That left $29 in the Mason jar where she keeps her earnings, to spend the next time she buys feed. 
 But that accounting does not include the cost of buying the birds as chicks -- $1.50 to $4 each, depending on the breed -- or the $1,500 she spent converting the old shed in her yard to a henhouse. 
 Ms. Middlebos said that she was pleased to be covering her immediate costs but that she viewed her small flock more as a hedge against an even deeper recession. 
 ''Because our economy is going so bad,'' she said, ''I feel like I have a trump card in my hand.'' 
 In New York City, where it is legal to raise chickens, Declan Walsh, 41, has been doing so in his backyard in the Red Hook neighborhood of Brooklyn for several years. Mr. Walsh, the director of community outreach at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, has 25 hens and, to cover his costs, sells eggs to a local restaurant for $6 a dozen. 
 But this year, Mr. Walsh, who is married with three children, is trying something new. He spent about $300 to build a coop and a fenced-in chicken run on a vacant lot and is raising 49 broiler hens for meat. A share of the birds will go to the lot's owner and others who are helping him.
 The economics are very different from raising egg-layers. Broiler birds eat far more than the laying hens, and the organic feed he gives the broilers is expensive (the layers often eat kitchen scraps). He estimates that once he has slaughtered the birds, he will have spent about $8 a chicken, including the cost of the bird and its feed. 
 In contrast, he pointed out that, in a promotion, a restaurant chain was advertising whole cooked chickens for $1.99. 
 ''I don't know that, for small-time folks, you're going to be able to beat the factories,'' he said, referring to large poultry producers. ''But it definitely will taste better.''
 Chicken hatcheries say that it is typical in a recession for their business to do well. But some hatchery veterans say they have never seen a year like this one. 
 Nancy Smith, whose family owns Cackle Hatchery in Lebanon, Mo., said there were times over the last year, as the economic news grew worse and worse, that her customers seemed to be ''in a panic mode'' to buy birds they could begin raising at home.
 ''I see it as a sense of security,'' Ms. Smith said. ''If they don't have the dollars that week to get the meat they need at the grocery store, they can go kill a chicken.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Declan Walsh is raising broiler hens in Brooklyn this year and estimates that each will cost him $8 over its lifetime. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
Above, Declan Walsh spent about $300 to build a coop and a fenced-in chicken run to raise broiler hens. Left, Lloyd Romriell and his son Cameron at home. Their hens lay about two dozen eggs a week, which gives Mr. Romriell a sense of security. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBERT BOWER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHICKEN FARMING (90%); POULTRY (90%); POULTRY HATCHERIES (89%); BIRDS (88%); DINING OUT TRENDS (78%); ORGANIC FOODS (77%); TABLE EGGS (76%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (72%); FOOD RECALLS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); POSTAL SERVICE (64%); SALES FIGURES (63%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) COLORADO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



96 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 133 words

HEADLINE: Cuts At Edinburgh Festival Fringe

BYLINE: Compiled by LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
This year's edition of the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, the Scottish event that has become a source of quirky new comedy, theater and musical talent both in Britain and the United States, is facing cutbacks because of the global economic crisis, The Independent, the British newspaper, reported. Ticket sales for the Fringe, which begins Friday and runs through the end of the month, are reported strong, but corporate sponsorships for several programs, including a pair of traditionally popular comedy events, have dried up. As a result the Sunday Fringe, a free offering, has been canceled, as have the opening and closing parties for performers. Because of ''the current economic situation, this is a make or break year,'' Peter Buckley Hill, a comedian and festival organizer, told The Independent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); TICKET SALES (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EDINBURGH, SCOTLAND (90%) SCOTLAND (73%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



97 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Investment Banking Aids HSBC and Barclays Profit

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
HSBC Holdings and Barclays reported improved first-half profits on Monday that were largely the result of their investment banking businesses. Yet the banks also set aside a combined $22 billion to cover potentially bad debts as recession and high unemployment led to more retail loans going sour. 
 The two banks, among the largest in Britain, were the first of a group of European banks, including UBS and Royal Bank of Scotland, to report earnings this week. Some analysts predict that the industry will continue to struggle with write-offs as more clients have trouble repaying their debts in a continuing global downturn. 
 HSBC's first-half profit of $3.35 billion was down 57 percent from a year ago. The bank also set aside $13.9 billion in credit risk provisions and said the timing and scale of a recovery in the wider economy remained ''highly uncertain.'' Profit at Barclays increased 10 percent, to $:1.89 billion, or $3.2 billion, after earnings at its investment banking unit almost doubled. But its set-asides reached $:4.6 billion.
 ''The underlying trend is rising bad debts and there are still at least one or two more quarters to come,'' said Julian Chillingworth, chief investment officer at Rathbone in London. 
 HSBC and Barclays joined banks like Credit Suisse and JPMorgan Chase in benefiting from a strong performance by their investment banking units even as loan-loss provisions climbed. Demand for investment banking services rose because more companies were seeking to sell shares and bonds to raise capital.
 As it has among Wall Street banks, a divide is forming in Europe between those banks that remained relatively unscathed during the financial crisis and can now grow and benefit from their investment banking services and those that accepted government funds and need to scale back riskier operations. 
 HSBC and Barclays could expand their investment banking operations while rivals like Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds, which accepted government funds, struggled to cut costs and recover from huge losses. Rather than accept government assistance, HSBC conducted a rights offer and Barclays tapped foreign investors to raise capital.
 Shares in HSBC gained about 5 percent in London on Monday, and shares in Barclays jumped 7 percent.
 The share price of Barclays has more than doubled since the beginning of this year, while HSBC stock is down about 5 percent amid concern about rising loan-loss provisions and its struggling mortgage lending business in the United States.
 Rising loan losses among European banks continue to spook investors. Deutsche Bank's loan provisions of 1 billion euros, or $1.4 billion, for the second quarter sent the company's shares lower even though the bank's net income rose and revenue from sales and trading at its investment bank unit more than doubled. 
 Barclays is benefiting from an expansion into investment banking services; it bought Lehman Brothers' American businesses and has been hiring senior bankers in Europe and Asia this year. 
 Robert E. Diamond Jr., president of Barclays, said Barclays Capital's expansion was about two-thirds done, but there was more to do in Asia. He expects income from the cash equities and advisory business to continue to grow and said the pipeline for financing, fixed-income and risk management services was ''very big.''
 Barclays, which said it planned to resume paying dividends before the end of this year, struck a note of caution Monday, predicting that loan losses would continue to go hand-in-hand with unemployment rates. 
 As bad debts -- especially at its ailing American operation -- weigh on HSBC's earnings, the bank stopped offering new loans in March and said that it would review its credit card operations in the United States. HSBC said on Monday that its credit card business was profitable in the first half.
 Barclays said profit rose to $:1.89 billion in the first half of this year, from $:1.72 billion. Impairment charges increased 86 percent, to $:4.6 billion, and pretax profit at its British retail business dropped 61 percent. At Barclays Capital, its investment banking unit, earnings rose to $:1.05 billion, from $:524 million.
 HSBC's personal financial services unit in the United States had a pretax loss of $2.9 billion in the first half, which led to a pretax loss of the global unit of $1.2 billion. But pretax profit at its commercial banking unit rose 49 percent, to $2.4 billion, and earnings at its global banking and markets division, which includes investment banking, rose to $6.3 billion from $126 million.
 ''We expect the remainder of 2009 to be challenging,'' John S. Varley, the Barclays chief executive, said in a statement. ''We expect credit market losses to be lower than in the first half but impairment trends to be consistent with those experienced over the first half.''
 Stephen K. Green, HSBC's chairman, was more optimistic when he said that ''it may be that we have passed, or are about to pass, the bottom of the cycle in the financial markets.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (73%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); RBS (NYSE) (73%); RBS (LSE) (73%); RBS (AMS) (73%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



98 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CONTROLLING INTERESTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1952 words

HEADLINE: Gains on Tests Don't Silence School Critics

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN and ROBERT GEBELOFF

 BODY:
They determine the A through F grades that can make or break a school's reputation, as well as which schools go out of business. They dictate which principals receive five-figure bonuses and which stand to lose their jobs. Mastering them has meant cash rewards for thousands of students, and their teachers.
 One of the hallmarks of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's seven-year stewardship of New York's public schools has been an intense focus on standardized tests. The change has also aroused opposition, as critics question whether an overemphasis on developing test-taking skills is overtaking more valuable lessons in critical thinking.
 A New York Times analysis of state test scores before and after the mayor took control chronicles a steady march upward: 
 While statewide passing rates have risen in every grade on English and math tests, New York City's have gone up even more. This year, 82 percent of city students passed in math and 69 percent in English, up sharply from 42 and 38 percent, respectively, in 2002. 
 Progress has been made across the city's diverse neighborhoods: All five boroughs once ranked at the very bottom of counties statewide on virtually every test, but Queens and Staten Island are now among the top counties in elementary school math scores. The Bronx remains on the bottom, though in some cases its gains outstrip those of its peers, because it started so far behind.
 The racial achievement gap in passing rates has been cut in half on some tests, though the chasm in actual scores has not closed by as much. 
 Standardized testing has taken on increasing importance throughout the country, spurred by the federal No Child Left Behind law and a desire for accountability by states and districts. 
 Perhaps nowhere is the emphasis and the attendant scrutiny so intense as in New York City, where schools are judged not just on how their students perform on the tests, but also on how effectively their teachers tailor instruction based on the results of the annual exams and eight interim tests each student must take every year.
 In its campaign to extend the mayor's school control law, which the State Senate is expected to take up this week, the Bloomberg administration has used the rising test scores as evidence of improved teaching and learning under its direction. Still, educators continue to debate the true value of the tests and a curriculum guided by them, arguing that some of the rise in scores is attributable simply to students' growing comfort with test-taking, and that some of the skills developed to prepare for the exams, like time-allocation techniques and multiple-choice shortcuts, are poor substitutes for true understanding of key concepts. 
 Questions of whether the state tests have been made too easy grew in 2007, when the results of a federal test, the National Assessment of Educational Progress, showed that the city's eighth graders had made no significant gains in reading or math under the mayor's control. (Fourth-grade math and reading scores on the federal test rose; new federal results are expected this fall.) 
 Average SAT scores for city students fell 2 percent from 2004 to 2008, though that is partly explained by the increasing number of students who took the tests: 40,500 last year, up from 33,150.
 Critics ask: If students were really learning more and better, as opposed to just better learning the state testing protocol, wouldn't their performance rise on all manner of measurements?
 ''The tests need to become more defensible,'' Merryl H. Tisch, chancellor of the State Board of Regents, said when the latest round of record results were released this spring. ''We had a very serious conversation with our vendor, and they assured us of the validity of our exams. But they also understood that we are ready to move in a direction that tests a deeper number of items in our curriculum, and tests that become far less predictable.'' 
 Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein said in an interview that he was in favor of more rigorous national standards, but that progress on the state tests remained a meaningful barometer of the school system under his leadership. 
 ''You can't pass the math test if you don't know how to do algebra, and you can't pass the English Language Arts test in the fourth grade if you can't read the paragraph or understand the paragraph,'' he said. ''If that's what test prep is about, teaching people to read and understand paragraphs, that's what I think education is about.'' 
 Mr. Klein attributed the city's gains in large part to its efforts to hold teachers and principals accountable for improving scores, including paying students $50, teachers $3,000 and principals up to $25,000 for significant progress. 
 One measure of the centrality of testing under his leadership: From 2001 to 2008, the city's Office of Accountability, which created and implements the school report card system and helps schools analyze student data to pinpoint areas of weakness, grew to about 110 people from about two dozen, according to Education Department numbers.
 ''I believe accountability is a driver in a system,'' Mr. Klein said. ''And, yes, if people get rewarded for high performance, if people get their schools shut down for nonperformance, they view their challenge differently.'' 
 The Results Come In
 The state releases each year's tests to the public after they are given, making it easier for teachers to prepare students for what to expect on the next test. At some schools, particularly those in middle-class areas that were already performing well, parents and public officials have complained that children are spending more time on learning to master the tests than on learning itself. But in some of the city's struggling schools, teachers expressed confidence that preparing children for the tests served them well. 
 At Public School 398 in Brownsville, Brooklyn, 77 percent of students passed the math tests this year and 60 percent passed English, up from 56 and 43 percent last year. Gene McCarthy, a fifth-grade teacher, attributed the improvement to ''a tremendous amount of test prep,'' but said that with a little creativity on his part, ''ultimately I think it's learning.'' 
 In another classroom, Jayvon Sneed, 9, was diligently reading a passage about a raccoon and filling in answers on a computerized test form, completing the last of his interim tests.
 ''I like doing it, because I like passing tests and I like learning stuff,'' he said afterward, peering from behind wire-rimmed glasses. ''I like making my brain smarter.'' 
 The principal, Diane Danay-Caban, said her own son suffered nerve-induced stomach aches several years ago when test preparation began at his high-performing Queens school. But at P.S. 398, which had struggled for years with low scores and discipline problems, she has come to feel that the push to raise scores has brought genuine gains in knowledge.
 She acknowledged that there were casualties of the school's efforts to raise its numbers -- like art classes, which were bumped out of the schedule until the official tests were completed this spring. ''Now that I see that we're improving,'' she said, ''maybe we can start earlier next year.''
 Mr. Klein, for his part, said he was confident that rising scores reflected real improvements. ''No matter how you look at them,'' he said, ''the picture is one that shows that the city is making dramatic progress.'' 
 Howard T. Everson, a senior research fellow at City University of New York and chairman of the Technical Advisory Group, a collection of experts who oversee the state testing process, said he believed New York's tests were ''about as good as we can build them.'' But he said that with so much riding on the tests, there was a need for greater study to certify that rising scores correspond with a gain in learning. 
 ''Unfortunately, I think some of the gains that we're seeing are probably related to test-score inflation, meaning that people are using inappropriate ways of teaching to the test,'' he said. ''Instead of really good time spent on instruction, they're doing a lot of test prep and drill.''
 Dr. Everson said that ''the skepticism that you hear and I hear is real skepticism, and it's warranted.'' ''Are things getting better?'' he asked. ''That's what we really want to know, and we need more research to tell us how to sort that out.''
 While test scores have risen virtually everywhere across New York State over the past seven years, the city's gains have outstripped those in other areas. 
 On the fourth-grade English exams, for example, the gap between the percentage of students passing in New York City and the rest of the state has shrunk 11 points over the seven years. In math, the gap shrank 20 percentage points. 
 Taming the Gap
 In the 2001-2 school year, New York's five boroughs posted the worst average scores of the state's 62 counties on both English and math in most grades. Now, the rankings have changed significantly, and Queens and Staten Island are in the top 10 on elementary school math. While the Bronx is still in the basement, three quarters of its students are now proficient in math, up from a third when the mayor took over, and a quarter as recently as 2000. 
 One of the most persistent challenges for educators in New York and across the country is closing the gap in performance between white and Asian students and their black and Hispanic peers. Under the Bloomberg administration, the gap in passing rates has shrunk significantly, but the difference in actual scores did not change as much, as all demographic groups improved their performance. (''Passing'' in 2009 was 650 points out of 770 to 800, depending on the test.) 
 The city provided The Times a set of scores statistically adjusted to make the numbers comparable over time, and they suggest that about three-quarters of white students still post better scores than the average score for black students on English and math tests, down from about 79 percent when the mayor took over.
 In a 2009 paper using similar methodology, Jennifer L. Jennings and Aaron M. Pallas, researchers in education and sociology at Columbia, wrote that this gap in actual scores was more important than the passing-rate gap. ''If the goal of the New York City education system is to ensure that every demographic and socioeconomic group is equally prepared to compete in higher education and the workplace,'' they said, ''relative achievement measured on a continuous scale is what matters, not proficiency rates.''
 Chancellor Klein, in the interview, disagreed, saying that the pass-rate was the more critical measure because it indicated proficiency, an important gateway to success. ''You don't want to see achievement gaps narrow because white kids do less well,'' he said. ''Our job is to get all kids to basic proficiency and then continue to move them forward, and I think we can do that.'' 
 Michael J. Petrilli, a vice president at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute in Washington, an educational research organization, said the persistent difference in scores was not to be ignored. 
 ''New York City has succeeded in getting most of its kids to master basic skills, at least as measured by the state tests, but those skills aren't going to be nearly enough to succeed in the 21st century economy,'' Mr. Petrilli said. ''There should be an honest conversation about the fact that white students on average are far, far ahead of minority students on average.''
 This is the fifth article in a series examining the Bloomberg administration's record on education as state lawmakers consider whether to renew the 2002 law giving the mayor control of city schools. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scores are up at Public School 398 in Brownsville, Brooklyn. Above, Franklin Darby with his third-grade class. This year, 77 percent passed the math tests and 60 percent passed English, up from 56 and 43 percent last year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) CHARTS: Higher Marks for City Students: Standardized test scores for New York City students have improved since Mayor Bloomberg took control of the system in 2002, narrowing the gap between city schools and the rest of the state after years of flat progress (1999 was the first year the scores were published). The ability of these scores to measure improvement in education is still debated.(Source: City and State Education Departments)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (89%); MAYORS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); MATHEMATICS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



99 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Speculation Prompts Obama to Renew Vow of No Tax Increase on Middle Class

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House tried Monday to douse speculation that it might raise taxes on the middle class in violation of President Obama's campaign promise, just a day after two of his top economic advisers left the door open to such a move to rein in spiraling deficits.
 Mr. Obama told his economic team in a meeting at the White House that he intended to stand by his promise not to increase taxes on families making less than $250,000, aides said. He then sent his spokesman out to repeat that message in front of the television cameras. 
 ''The president made a commitment in the campaign. He's clear about that commitment, and he's going to keep it,'' said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary.
 The renewal of the promise came a day after Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council, both refused to rule out tax increases on the middle class while discussing ways to pare the deficit. The two were speaking on separate Sunday morning talk shows, venues where administration officials are usually well prepared on the official line before appearing.
 ''It's never a good idea to absolutely rule things out no matter what,'' Mr. Summers said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. Mr. Geithner, on ABC's ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos,'' said, ''We can't make these judgments yet about exactly what it's going to take'' to tame the deficit.
 Conservative critics interpreted those comments as laying the groundwork for trying to wriggle out of Mr. Obama's campaign pledge. 
 ''Obama should fire Geithner and Summers,'' said Grover Norquist, president of Americans for Tax Reform, a group that opposes tax increases. They ''went on national television and implied the president lied his way into office and that he is open to raising taxes.''
 The developments come at a time when the White House and Congressional Democrats, trying to figure out how to pay for expanding health care coverage, are considering proposals to increase taxes on the wealthiest Americans. Some critics from the left have suggested that Mr. Obama should not limit tax increases to the rich so that a broader cross section of Americans would be invested in the new health care system, as they are in Social Security and Medicare.
 But the White House is trying to fend off attacks portraying Mr. Obama as a tax-and-spend liberal. Mr. Gibbs said that he had read the transcripts from Sunday's shows ''a few times'' to study what had been said and that the president had made a point of reminding Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers of his position, but was not scolding them.
 ''We talked about it as an issue,'' Mr. Gibbs said, but added, ''This wasn't a, you know, like 'school is in' type of thing.'' 
 Mr. Gibbs seemed exasperated at repeated questions on the matter at his daily briefing.
 ''If you don't trust what I'm going to tell you, I don't know why we do this,'' he said finally.
 Asked why Mr. Geithner and Mr. Summers did not repeat the president's campaign promise, he said, ''They left it to me.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TRANSCRIPTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TAX REFORM (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); CONSERVATISM (69%); LIBERALISM (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



100 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 860 words

HEADLINE: The Bottomless Headache

BYLINE: By ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
It was a watershed moment of the financial crisis -- a you-must-be-kidding payday that prompted a state investigation and an outcry in Congress. And, for Kenneth D. Lewis, it has become a nagging, multibillion-dollar headache. 
 On Monday the Securities and Exchange Commission accused Bank of America, the bank Mr. Lewis runs, of misleading its shareholders about $5 billion in bonuses paid by Merrill Lynch, the ailing brokerage giant that Bank of America bought last year. 
 The developments once again focus an uncomfortable spotlight on Mr. Lewis, who is struggling to win back investors and persuade them that his daring bet on Merrill will pay off.
 The $50 billion merger, completed at the behest of federal officials, has been the subject of heated hearings in Congress, as has the question of who knew what and when about the Merrill bonuses. The payments were made despite mounting losses that soon forced Bank of America to seek a second lifeline from Washington. 
 Bank of America will pay $33 million to settle the S.E.C.'s claims, without admitting or denying the accusations, but the agreement is unlikely to put to rest questions swirling around Bank of America and its leadership. 
 Indeed, news of the settlement came on the same day that Bank of America announced a significant management shake-up, one that Mr. Lewis suggested put in place several possible successors. Among the additions is Sallie L. Krawcheck, the former Citigroup executive, who will join Bank of America as head of global wealth and investment management .
 The pressure on Mr. Lewis has been unrelenting. No sooner was the settlement announced Monday than the CtW Investment Group, which has been highly critical of Mr. Lewis, again called for him to step down. 
 ''He bears ultimate responsibility for the disclosure failure,'' CtW said. 
 The group, which represents several union pension funds, urged the bank to install a new chief executive who could restore investor confidence and claw back bonuses paid ''surreptitiously'' to Merrill Lynch executives. 
 The S.E.C.'s lawsuit centers on statements Bank of America made in its proxy statement about the Merrill deal, which was announced last Sept. 15. The bank, one of the nation's largest, told its investors in the proxy on Nov. 3 that Merrill had agreed not to pay year-end performance bonuses or other incentive pay before closing the deal without Bank of America's consent. 
 But, unknown to investors, Bank of America had already agreed that Merrill could pay up to $5.8 billion in year-end compensation to employees, the S.E.C. said in its complaint, which was filed in federal court in New York. That agreement was memorialized in a separate bonus schedule that was omitted from the proxy statement, the S.E.C. said.
 ''Failing to disclose that a struggling company will pay out billions of dollars in performance bonuses obviously violates that duty and warrants the significant financial penalty imposed by today's settlement,'' said Robert Khuzami, director of the S.E.C.'s division of enforcement, in a statement. 
 The Bank of America-Merrill deal, as well as the government's role in it, drew sharp scrutiny on Wall Street and in Washington. Lawmakers armed with e-mail messages and internal documents have claimed at various hearings that Federal Reserve and Treasury officials had threatened to oust the bank's top management if it pulled out of the deal, a claim various officials, including Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, have denied.
 Dennis J. Kucinich, Democrat of Ohio, said the matter was unlikely to end here. ''This may not be the last fine that Bank of America pays for how it handled its merger of Merrill Lynch,'' he said. Andrew M. Cuomo, the New York attorney general, who referred his investigation into the bonuses to the S.E.C. in April, said that his inquiry was continuing. 
 The S.E.C.'s complaint shows that Bank of America signed off on a $5.8 billion bonus pool for Merrill employees before the merger was announced last September. The boards of both companies also signed off on the year-end bonus pool. On Nov. 12, Merrill apprised the bank that it was accelerating the schedule of year-end bonuses and Bank of America gave its approval, according to the complaint. 
 John A. Thain, who was ousted as chief of Merrill after the bonuses were disclosed, has accused Mr. Lewis of lying about Bank of America's involvement in the bonus payments. 
 In addition to Ms. Krawcheck, Bank of America also hired Brian Moynihan, currently the head of its global corporate and investment banking and global wealth management arms, to become the bank's head of consumer banking, a division that will include Bank of America's deposit, small-business and credit card businesses.
 Tom Montag, who has been the bank's head of global markets, will take on the additional role of running the bank's global corporate and investment banking business.
 Liam McGee, who currently runs the consumer and small-business banking unit, will be leaving the company after nearly 20 years. Mr. McGee said in Monday's news release that he planned to ''pursue my goal of running a company.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The S.E.C. accused Bank of America, run by Kenneth Lewis, of misleading shareholders about Merrill's bonuses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
 A furor over $5 billion in bonuses has kept the $50 billion merger of Bank of America and Merrill Lynch in the spotlight. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MERGERS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (76%); MERIT PAY (76%); BONUS PAY (76%); EMPLOYEE INCENTIVES (76%); LITIGATION (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (50%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



101 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Spurring Sales, Car Rebate Plan Is Left Up in Air

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and NICK BUNKLEY; Matthew L. Wald reported from Washington and Nick Bunkley from Detroit. Ashlee Vance contributed from San Francisco.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The fate of the ''cash for clunkers'' program remained uncertain on Monday even as sales figures from automakers demonstrated that people had flocked to dealers to trade in old gas guzzlers.
 The White House urged the Senate to add $2 billion to the program, as the House voted to do last Friday before leaving for its August recess. Still, dealers around the country stopped promising the rebates to car shoppers on Monday, because of uncertainty about how much of the $1 billion initially allocated had been used up, or when or whether more money would be available. The Senate begins its recess this Friday. 
 The short-term tonic of the first billion dollars was evident, though, in sales figures that automakers reported Monday. New-vehicle sales rose last month to the highest level in nearly a year, and in the final week of July, cars and trucks were rolling off dealers' lots at almost the same rate they had before the recession began.
 Dealers estimated that they sold a quarter-million cars with the rebate money. 
 And the Transportation Department reported that the average gas mileage of the vehicles being bought was significantly higher than required to qualify for a rebate of $3,500 to $4,500. Of 120,000 rebate applications processed so far, the department said the average gas mileage of cars being bought was 28.3 miles per gallon, for S.U.V.'s, 21.9 miles per gallon, and for trucks, 16.3 miles per gallon. 
 ''The statistics are much better than anybody dreamed they would be,'' said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California. The actual mileage gain so far, she said, was not due to the details of the law but ''the good judgment of the American people.''
 Senator Feinstein, along with Senator Susan M. Collins, Republican of Maine, was the author of an early version of a ''cash for clunkers'' bill that would have required bigger improvements in mileage. Their decision to express support for extending the current version of the program, at a news conference late Monday afternoon, was an important signal to other senators concerned about whether the program was doing enough for the environment. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, an early backer of the Feinstein-Collins approach, also voiced support for an extension. ''If it ain't broke, don't fix it,'' he said. ''It's working in every way. It's working as stimulus, it's working to help families, it's working to improve mileage.''
 The White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said at his daily briefing that President Obama would lobby for the extension of the program on Tuesday when the 60 Democratic senators came to the White House for lunch.
 ''It's good for dealers and auto manufacturers,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''It's good for our energy security and our environment.''
 But the prospects for renewal were still uncertain. 
 Jim Manley, a spokesman for the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, said of the statements by the three senators, ''This is encouraging news, but in the Senate, where any one senator can stall things, we still need to reach agreement with the Republicans so we can get this through the chamber.'' 
 The program squeaked through the Senate the first time it came up, passing 60-36, the minimum needed under Senate rules. In contrast, the House voted 298 to 119 to provide the initial $1 billion for the program. On Friday the vote to add $2 billion more was 316 to 109.
 The Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Monday on the Senate floor that the Obama administration had botched the execution of the program by miscalculating how popular it would be. This was a reason to be more deliberate in acting on a health care overhaul, he said.
 Mr. McConnell did not, however, speak out against adding $2 billion to the clunker program, though his spokesman, Don Stewart, said some Republicans had ''real objections to it,'' because it was borrowing the $2 billion from one loan program -- at the Energy Department -- and funneling it to another. 
 The program, formally known as the Car Allowance Rebate System, was meant to last until Nov. 1 or as long as the money lasted. But the program basically ran out of money within the first week as dealers submitted applications to the Transportation Department for a quarter-million cars they had sold in July. 
 Auto dealers have been uncertain about how to handle new applications for the program since Thursday night, when the administration sent mixed signals about the future of the program.
 In Houston on Monday, one dealer, George DeMontrond, said, ''We are not going to do anymore until we get further information.''
 Noting the two potential levels of rebates, he said, ''at $3,500 to $4,500 a car, that is the difference between making a little money and losing a lot. We're not prepared to take that risk until we fully understand what's going to happen next.''
 In Detroit, the automakers acknowledged sales were certain to drop off again when the trade-in program ended -- whether immediately or later this year -- and they conceded that there was a long way to go before the industry could climb out of its disastrous slump.
 At the Ford Motor Company, sales rose 2.3 percent in July, the company's first year-over-year sales increase in nearly two years and the first for any of the six largest automakers since last August. Ford's compact sedan, the Focus, was the top-selling vehicle bought by those who turned in a clunker to be scrapped, the government said.
 ''We're seeing people that we haven't seen in years and years and years, coming back to where they bought the car 10 years ago,'' said Patrick Dazzo, the general manager of Joe Rizza Ford Lincoln Mercury in North Riverside, Ill. ''I had every person in my dealership working nonstop. It was great. Very encouraging.''
 Three other automakers -- Hyundai, Kia and Subaru -- also reported increases. Detroit's other car companies, Chrysler and General Motors, still sold fewer vehicles than they did a year ago, but the declines of 9 percent and 19 percent, respectively, were much smaller than in recent months.
 No automaker revealed how many of its sales were to people who traded in a clunker, except Hyundai, which said the program accounted for 22 percent of sales. Ford and others said they did not know which sales were part of the program but could tell that it was a significant factor based on the types of vehicles sold, the fact that sales suddenly jumped after July 24 and anecdotal reports from dealers.
 Even so, sales are down 32 percent compared with the first seven months of 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BIGGEST GAINER: Ford Escape
BIGGEST LOSER: Honda Accord (A3) CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
Most Popular Cars and Trucks
How the Automakers Fared (Source: MotorIntelligence.com)
 Trade-In Tally: A preliminary analysis of the government ''cash for clunkers'' program to get low-mileage cars off the road shows (Source: Department of Transportation)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SALES REBATES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); LOBBYING (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

PERSON: DIANNE FEINSTEIN (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



102 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: States in Distress

 BODY:
By now, most states have balanced their budgets for the fiscal year that began on July 1. To do so, they had to fill the deepest budget holes in modern memory -- shortfalls totaling nearly $143 billion. 
 Yet, their problems are far from over. Already 10 states and the District of Columbia are coming up short for this year by $4 billion. And 33 states currently foresee deficits for next year, mainly because high unemployment is expected to depress tax revenues even as it increases demand for state aid. The coming deficits -- estimated at $160 billion to $180 billion -- are likely even if economic growth resumes, because hiring is not expected to pick up until well into a recovery. 
 Continued fiscal stress on the states will severely impair Americans' ability to withstand the downturn. Both state officials and the Obama administration must prepare now for a situation that is bound to get worse before it gets better. 
 In general, this year's budget gaps were closed with federal stimulus dollars, state rainy-day funds, spending cuts, tax increases and one-time accounting maneuvers. 
 For next year, roughly $40 billion in federal stimulus will be available for state fiscal relief. But the states' own emergency funds will be largely depleted and, obviously, one-time fixes will be tapped out. Spending cuts on the scale of those enacted this year would be brutalizing. Cuts have already fallen heavily on services for low-income families, the elderly and the disabled, on early education and child care, and on public schools, colleges and universities. Most states also have cut their public work forces, impeding access to services and harming the economy by reducing income and consumer spending. 
 Ever deeper spending cuts risk long-term damage to institutions like social service agencies, school, health care networks, parks and cultural forums. As employees leave and downsizing, neglect and disrepair become the norm, it gets increasingly difficult to rebuild. 
 That leaves two main ways to fill the anticipated gaps: More federal stimulus in the form of direct fiscal aid to states and more state tax increases. The administration has said that talk of more stimulus is premature. Politically, that's probably true. Congress has its hands full with health care reform and other issues. Current stimulus spending also will deliver its biggest punch in the next few months, so administration officials may prefer to wait until they can quantify those effects before asking for more. But there's virtually no doubt that more will be needed. Obama officials must ensure that they are not putting themselves into a position where asking for more stimulus later is perceived as a policy reversal. 
 States cannot avoid raising taxes to help balance their budgets. Both tax increases and spending cuts are bad in a downturn because they lower demand. But tax increases on high-income residents are less harmful than spending cuts; wealthier taxpayers tend to pay higher taxes from savings, not money they would otherwise spend. That said, states will have a harder time raising taxes if health care reform includes higher federal taxes, which would make the need for more stimulus greater. 
 There are no cheap, easy or fast ways out of the Great Recession. Political leadership is crucial to ensure that fiscal fixes are both fair and adequate. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); FAMILY (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



103 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 4, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AFTER WAR UNSHACKLED WEB, IRAQ TRIES TO REFIT RESTRAINTS
 The doors to Iraq were thrown open by the war in 2003, and in crept entertainment blocked under Saddam Hussein. Recently, however, the new government has been trying to censor some Web sites. PAGE A4 
 A SKEPTIC STEERS IN EUROPE 
 The European Union is the world's biggest political and economic bloc. But one of its top representatives, the Czech president Vaclav Klaus, does not agree that Europe should have a strong union. PAGE A4 
 ISRAELI-U.S. CRIME RING
 A group of Americans and Israelis tried to defraud United States tax authorities of tens of millions of dollars, and arrests have been made in both countries, court documents show. PAGE A4 
 NEWSWEEK PRESSES IRAN
 Newsweek is escalating its pressure on the government of Iran to release Maziar Bahari, a journalist who was detained during the country's post-election protests in June. PAGE A6 
 Ayatollah Certifies Ahmadinejad A6 
 Serb Organ Ring Accusations A6
 China Seals Town With Plague A7
 Arms Dealer Sent to Germany A9 
 Taliban Bomb Kills 10 Afghans A9 
 U.S. Hikers Held in Iran Named A10
 Obituaries
 NAOMI SIMS, 61
 Her appearance as the first black model on the cover of Ladies' Home Journal in November 1968 was a milestone in the Black is Beautiful movement. PAGE A21 
 National
 OBAMA REITERATES VOW
 Of No Middle-Class Tax Rise
 The White House tried to douse speculation that it may break President Obama's campaign promise on taxes after a top adviser would not rule out the move. PAGE A12 
 BRIEF ELICITS CONCERN ON LEFT
 A Supreme Court filing from the Obama administration argued that the state secrets privilege, which lets the state block lawsuits, was rooted in the Constitution. PAGE A11 
 U. OF ILLINOIS TRUSTEE RESIGNS
 The chairman of the Board of Trustees at the University of Illinois resigned amid accusations he let students be admitted based on personal and political connections. PAGE A14 
 New York
 MAYOR PROPOSES OVERHAUL OF THE CITY'S MASS TRANSIT
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg put forth a plan to overhaul subways, buses and roads, even though he has little say over the system. PAGE A16 
 TRIBUTE TO POLITICAL PIONEER
 A standing-room-only crowd filled the modest sanctuary of an East Harlem church to pay respects to the memory and legacy of State Senator Olga A. Mendez. PAGE A15 
 Sports
 TO TURF TOES AND HERNIAS, N.F.L. TEAMS ADD TWEETS 
 As N.F.L. training camps opened last week, many players confronted a new activity on the do not participate list: Twittering. PAGE B13 
 Business
 BANK OF AMERICA SETTLES 
 S.E.C. Charges on Bonuses
 Bank of America settled a lawsuit filed by the Securities and Exchange Commission for $33 million without admitting or denying that it misled shareholders about bonuses paid by Merrill Lynch. PAGE B1
 GOOGLE CHIEF QUITS APPLE
 Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, stepped down from Apple's board of directors. PAGE B1 
 BEAT THE SLUMP WITH EGGS
 As Americans struggle through the recession they eat out less often, take vacations closer to home, put off buying new cars and, in some cases, raise chickens. PAGE B1 
 A.I.G. Names a New Chief B1 
 Florida Bank and Lender Raided B2
 Better Profits at 2 British Banks B3
 Arts
 'LARAMIE PROJECT' EPILOGUE WILL OPEN IN MANY CITIES
 An epilogue to ''The Laramie Project,'' the play about the killing of Matthew Shepard because he was gay, will debut at dozens of theaters on Oct. 12, the 11th anniversary of Mr. Shepard's death. PAGE C1 
 A WORLD ON AN URBAN WALL
 With their first public artwork in Manhattan, at the northwest corner of Houston Street and the Bowery, the Brazilian brothers Otavio and Gustavo Pandolfo bring graffiti art to its Rococo phase. PAGE C1 
 The Paranoid Pynchon C1
 Drama Offstage in Milwaukee C1
 An Opera of Love and Slaughter C1 
 Science
 FINALLY, THE SPLEEN MOVES ONTO THE A-LIST OF ORGANS
 Scientists have discovered that the spleen plays a more important role than anyone suspected: it is a reservoir for a huge number of immune cells that are released in the event of a trauma to the body. PAGE D1 
 Cuban Doctors Defect to Miami D1 
 Glasses Change Focus on Fly D3
 Killer Cows? They're Out There D6
 The Fog After Chemotherapy D7
 Clues to Gap in Cancer Survival D7 
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A23 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MAYORS (88%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); SECURITIES LAW (86%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); TALIBAN (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); TAX INCREASES (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); HIKING (66%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (65%); BANKING & FINANCE (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); CENSORSHIP (57%)

COMPANY: LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); VACLAV KLAUS (70%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2009



104 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW 'THE PRISONER OF SECOND AVENUE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Downsized Before There Was a Word for It

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

DATELINE: STOCKBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
''There are no jobs for 47-year-old men,'' wails the newly and miserably unemployed Mel Edison in Neil Simon's temper-tantrum comedy ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue.'' The plaintive cry elicits robust chuckles of sympathy from audiences at the Berkshire Theater Festival here, where this play from 1971 has been revived during our own summer of seething economic angst.
 ''Is the whole world going out of business?'' moans Mel's equally beleaguered wife, Edna, when she too is faced with sudden job loss. 
 Boy, do we feel your pain, Mel and Edna. The trials endured by this middle-class Manhattan couple, portrayed with keening intensity by the talented actors Stephen DeRosa and Veanne Cox, strike a distinctly contemporary chord. Noisy neighbors, wailing sirens, burglaries and fridges on the fritz may be the wallpaper of urban-nightmare stories from the 1970s, but the larger troubles Mel and Edna face have a potently topical punch in this timely revival, directed by Warner Shook. As the nerve-rattling struggles of the Edisons remind us, green shoots of hope can be hard to discern when the world around you seems like a blasted heath. 
 Like many another hit play from the earlier stages of Mr. Simon's prolific career, ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue'' comes across today as little more than a few episodes of a television sitcom stitched together. The recent Broadway revivals of ''The Odd Couple'' and ''Barefoot in the Park'' exposed the difficulty of bringing a rejuvenating glow to Mr. Simon's joke-riddled but often shallow early work.
 But the situation in this particular comedy has a real sting now. The play's depiction of a couple facing an economic crisis that gradually turns existential, and the family that gathers to offer support (and ancillary wisecracks ) in their time of trouble, has a startling resonance. 
 Mel is an advertising executive who senses the doom hanging thickly in the air even before the ax falls. Pacing his Upper East Side apartment in the wee hours of a weekday morning, he shares with Edna the grim details of the new mood at the office. 
 ''The company lost $3 million this year,'' he snaps. ''Suddenly they're looking to save pennies. The vice president of my department has been using the same paper clip for three weeks now. A 62-year-old man with a duplex on Park Avenue and a house in Southampton running around the office, screaming, 'Where's my paper clip?' ''
 Soon enough, Mel is downsized -- out of a job, along with a few dozen others -- before that euphemism had been invented. Time weighs heavily on his hands, what with no Starbucks to visit and no Internet to trawl during the idle hours of the day. Poor Mel must resort to that most old-fashioned of time killers, a nervous breakdown. 
 Mr. DeRosa, with his tortured eyes and Groucho-worthy comic inflections, delivers Mel's acerbic cracks with a sharp savagery. As Mel retreats into resentfulness, Mr. DeRosa curls his body into a defensive crouch, unfurling it only when Mel unleashes one of his increasingly paranoid rants. 
 ''Listen to the talk shows,'' he mutters darkly. ''Find out what's going on in this country.'' (It is bracing to be reminded that the exploitation of a recession by fearmongering airwave demagogues is nothing new.)
 Edna's endless patience for Mel's self-pity comes across as more pathological today than it presumably did when the play was first produced. Edna schleps home from her new job every day to make his lunch and then must weather Mel's sarcastic broadsides for having taken the trouble.
 But Ms. Cox comes into her own when Edna returns to the apartment to find that burglars have wiped them out. Her brittle comic style, all exposed nerve ends, brings a similar frenzied hilarity to the last scenes of the play, in which it is Edna's turn to become disoriented to the point of derangement in the face of a pink slip. 
 Mr. Shook's supporting cast is also excellent, with Alice Playten a particular delight as Mel's sister Pearl, who is sure this nervous breakdown is not his first. Her placid, raspy line readings are a consistent delight, and Denny Dillon, Jeanne Paulsen and Julian Gamble likewise offer pleasurably funny turns as Mel's other siblings, squabbling over how much money it will take to keep their brother afloat. 
 The festering fear and anger that give a bitter undertone to ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue'' do not always sit comfortably alongside Mr. Simon's irresistible need to coddle the audience with regular punch lines and to proffer a few sentimental green shoots of hope by way of an ending. But there's no question that the sour tone reflected a cultural malaise that we are cycling through again today. (The original production, directed by Mike Nichols and starring Peter Falk and Lee Grant, ran for almost 800 performances.)
 In her emotional meltdown Edna blurts out a dispirited lament that might come straight from a radio talk show of today. ''I thought we were such a strong country, Mel,'' she says. ''If you can't depend on America, who can you depend on?'' Hmm. We'll get back to you on that, Edna. 
 The Prisoner of Second Avenue
 By Neil Simon; directed by Warner Shook; sets by Scott Bradley; costumes by Laurie Churba Kohn; lighting by Mary Louise Geiger; music and sound by Scott Killian. Presented by the Berkshire Theater Festival, Kate Maguire, artistic director. At the Main Stage Theater, 83 East Main Street, Stockbridge, Mass.; (413) 298-5576 or berkshiretheatre.org. Through Saturday. Running time: 2 hours.
 WITH: Veanne Cox (Edna Edison), Stephen DeRosa (Mel Edison), Denny Dillon (Jessie), Julian Gamble (Harry Edison), Jeanne Paulsen (Pauline) and Alice Playten (Pearl).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Prisoner of Second Avenue,: by Neil Simon, with Veanne Cox and Stephen DeRosa, at the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge, Mass.(pg. C1)
 Denny Dillon, left, and Julian Gamble in ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue'' by Neil Simon.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LINDSEY CRANE)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); THEATER (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Prisoner of Second Avenue, The (Play); Prisoner of Second Avenue, The (Play)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



105 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Tattered

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

DATELINE: BUFFALO 

 BODY:
Ken Kwitzer got hooked on the Mets in 1969 and has followed the team ever since. So when the Mets moved their Class AAA affiliate back to his hometown this season for the first time in decades, Kwitzer was ecstatic.
 That is, until the games started.
 The Buffalo Bisons, who were a Cleveland Indians affiliate for 14 often very successful years, started the season by losing 20 of their first 24 games and remain in last place, far from playoff contention.
 ''I was just hoping we wouldn't get the 1962 Mets,'' said Kwitzer, sitting with his cousin above the third-base dugout at a recent game against the Pawtucket Red Sox. ''I've seen some really bad games.''
 The Mets' struggles have echoed not only through the organization, but also through New York State. The Binghamton Mets, the team's Class AA affiliate, are also in last place. Their performance has been so weak that Tony Bernazard, the Mets' former director of player development, challenged the team's players to a fistfight several weeks ago. 
 The three teams' performances are troubling but no coincidence. The Mets have been hit by an unusual number of injuries that have not only derailed their high hopes, but depleted the Buffalo and Binghamton teams, which have had to make do with castoffs and unseasoned prospects.
 The Bisons are hitting .246, second to last in the International League, and, like the parent club, are starved for power with only 52 home runs, last in the league. The B-Mets are tied for first in the Eastern League in hitting with a .269 average but have a league-high 5.27 team earned run average.
 The future is cloudy. The Mets have traded some of their best prospects in recent years to acquire stars like Johan Santana but also washouts like Victor Zambrano. The Mets have also been conservative in signing draft picks, which has diluted their minor league teams of valuable prospects to trade or to count on.
 ''No one is tearing it up and is a can't-miss guy'' in the Mets' farm system, said Jim Callis, the executive editor of Baseball America, who ranks the Mets near the bottom in talent acquired via the draft. ''There's a correlation between what you spend and what you get.''
 It was not supposed to be this way. Before the year began, the Mets were picked by some experts to make the playoffs after two near misses. Already with one of the highest payrolls in the major leagues, the team added Francisco Rodriguez and J. J. Putz and brought back Oliver Perez in the off-season to complement the Mets' proven stars like David Wright.
 Injuries to Carlos Delgado, Jose Reyes, Carlos Beltran and a host of other players have undone that optimism. Fielders dropping pop-ups, runners missing bases and batters going cold have made matters worse. The Mets are nine games behind in the wild-card race. 
 Optimism was running high in Buffalo, too, perhaps the highest since the Bisons' new park opened in 1988. The Bisons were eager to work with the Mets because they felt they could reach more fans, including local transplants from the New York City area. The Mets previously had a Class AAA affiliate in Buffalo from 1963 to 1965. The Mets' cable network broadcasts 30 Bisons games, and the Mets, the Bisons and the B-Mets are organizing tours for fans to see games in one another's cities. The Bisons' ad campaign includes the phrase, ''A Baseball State of Mind.''
 To reinforce their link to the Mets, the Bisons changed their logo to include a bison inside an orange-rimmed baseball with the blue skyline of Buffalo in the background. The team sold more merchandise in the month after the logo was introduced than it sold all of last year.
 Mr. Met, the team's mascot; Ed Kranepool, who played here in the 1960s; and Darryl Strawberry, who hosted his own bobblehead day with the Bisons, have made trips to Buffalo.
 ''We knew we made the right decision because all of a sudden, we're seeing Wright and Santana jerseys in the stands,'' said Jon Dandes, the president for baseball operations for the Bisons.
 On the field, the team has been a disappointment, a big reason that attendance has fallen 10 percent so far this year. Unseasonably wet weather and a weak economy have not helped. On opening day the Bisons offered fans who could prove they were unemployed free tickets.
 ''It was really exciting in the beginning with the New York, New York thing,'' said Fran Lull, who wore a Santana jersey to a recent home game. ''They're trying, but the Mets are taking our best players.''
 Some fans say the Bisons would have been better off sticking with Cleveland, but the Indians wanted their Class AAA franchise in Ohio. But just as many fans say a winning team will turn the Indians into a memory.
 In Binghamton, the team is dealing with a different kind of distraction: the attention that Bernazard's tirade generated. Manager Mako Oliveras said Bernazard was trying to motivate his underachieving players, not threaten them.
 ''I'm not going to sugarcoat it,'' Oliveras said before his team lost to the Akron Aeros, 16-3, on Friday. ''You're damned if you do, damned if don't.''
 Despite the episode -- maybe because of it -- attendance is steady and spending at the park is up this year, according to the team's general manager, Scott Brown. Like many minor league teams, Binghamton has numerous promotions, like fireworks on Friday nights. 
 ''It's not necessarily about wins and losses, but the show you put on,'' Brown said. ''And the more people who know about the city, the better.''
 Binghamton also achieved notice when a video of the team's mascot, Bingo the Bee, became a sensation on YouTube. After Binghamton's Lucas Duda hit a grand slam, Bingo was shown dancing in the outfield before failing comically to jump over a fence.
 The team's season has fallen comically short, too. In June, the B-Mets had their worst month in franchise history, going 8-21. Catcher Josh Thole and first baseman Ike Davis are having promising seasons, but the pitching staff is thin.
 Indeed, many fans at one recent game fondly remembered Wright, the last B-Mets player to become a legitimate star on the Mets. Fans worry that the optimism he brought to the Mets when he arrived in 2004 may be fading.
 ''It's depressing if you're a Met fan,'' said Jim Maggiore, who followed the Mets growing up on Long Island and now lives in Binghamton, ''because this could be the start of some really lean years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Buffalo Manager Ken Oberkfell's last-place Bisons were hitting .246 and were last in the league in home runs. (TOP, ILLUSTRATION BY THE NEW YORK TIMES, PHOTOGRAPH BY MARTIN MISTRETTA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B12)
 Buffalo's Ken Takahashi, who was called up by the Mets in May, pitching last week at home, where attendance is down 10 percent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG BENZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B16) CHART: DISAPPOINTMENT ON THE FARM: A look at the Mets' minor league affiliates. (Source: Minorleaguebaseball.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); CLEVELAND INDIANS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (88%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



106 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Opening A Kitchen, And Maybe A Business

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
City officials are gearing up for a big bake-off in East Harlem.
 In the latest attempt by the city to encourage entrepreneurs by providing low-cost space for start-up businesses, the Economic Development Corporation is seeking someone to operate a large, shared kitchen that would be available for rental by those with dreams of developing food businesses.
 ''New York City is not going to wait around for the recession to end,'' Christine C. Quinn, the Council speaker, said at a news conference on Tuesday. ''We're going to help ourselves.'' 
 Using $1 million allocated by the City Council, the chosen operator would set up ovens, ranges and other cooking equipment in a 4,000-square-foot space in La Marqueta, the largely abandoned, city-owned food market under the commuter-train tracks along Park Avenue near East 116th Street.
 The city hopes to install an operator that will offer below-market rates to help foster the development of profitable food businesses. 
 The preparation of food, especially baked goods and ethnic delicacies, has been one of the few bright spots in the city's shrinking manufacturing sector, said Seth W. Pinsky, the president of the development corporation.
 The city is overflowing with aspiring chefs and bakers but ''they don't have the dough to build a kitchen,'' Ms. Quinn said. She said food-making employed about 19,000 people in the city and supported more than 30,000 jobs.
 ''We want to be creating work opportunities for New Yorkers,'' Ms. Quinn said at the news conference in the oven room of Amy's Bread, a thriving baking company that was born in Hell's Kitchen 17 years ago.
 Amy Scherber, the owner of Amy's Bread, said she started her company in a boarded-up fish market on Ninth Avenue without any help from City Hall. But Ms. Scherber applauded the city's plan, saying she doubted she could find an affordable space to house a bakery in Manhattan today.
 ''It's a little too hard of a dream to accomplish,'' she said. ''You need to get to a certain size to be successful.'' 
 She added that several of her 150 employees had asked where they could start food businesses of their own, but that she was unable to provide answers. Her own kitchens, on Ninth Avenue and in Chelsea Market, are operating at full capacity, she said, as a crew of six men behind her formed dough into baguettes and fed them into glowing ovens.
 Smaller bakers also welcomed the plan for a shared kitchen.
 ''Brilliant,'' said Patricia Helding, the owner of the Fat Witch Bakery, which has a store and a kitchen in Chelsea Market and another production operation in Harlem, blocks from La Marqueta. ''What a good way to put tax dollars into action,'' she said.
 Ms. Helding said she had been a trader on the floor of the American Stock Exchange before she quit to bake brownies in 1991. With no city-subsidized kitchen available, Ms. Helding knocked on doors of churches, asking if she could bake in their ovens when they were idle, she said.
 She said she did not begrudge other entrepreneurs -- or even other refugees from Wall Street -- the benefit of the city's help in getting started. ''The more the better,'' Ms. Helding said. ''The city should be throwing lifelines, not roadblocks, at its small businesses.''
 City officials said the users of the kitchen would be chosen based on the viability of their business plans. Most will be expected to move on to other quarters within a year, Ms. Quinn said. She said the city hoped that makers of ethnic foods that appealed to particular segments of the community would be among the tenants. But Sarah Brannen, a senior policy analyst overseeing the project, said there would be no limits on how many laid-off investment bankers could wind up baking cupcakes there, so long as they could provide feasible business plans.
 Ms. Brannen said the critical question would be: ''Is it a hobby or is this someone looking to start a business?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); CITIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BAKERIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STARTUPS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BAKED GOODS (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); TRAINS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%)

COMPANY: RED HAT INC (53%)

TICKER: RHT (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611420 COMPUTER TRAINING (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (53%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



107 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: As Sugar Prices Soar, India Is Caught Short

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: LONI KALBHOR, India 

 BODY:
Sanjay Gujar's family has raised sugar cane for generations. But last year, after sugar prices fell by more than 40 percent, he replanted his six acres here in the sugar bowl of India with bananas.
 A year later, after Mr. Gujar and thousands of other Indian farmers abandoned sugar, prices are surging. The price of refined sugar on international markets has jumped 60 percent since the end of last year, to 23 cents a pound, even as other food commodities have stabilized or fallen. 
 While all commodities move in cycles, sugar in India is a case study in feast-to-famine swings in which bountiful crops are followed by anemic harvests every two or three years. 
 Volatility is aggravated -- some analysts say caused -- by government efforts to control prices to balance the interests of farmers and consumers. When prices were rising, for instance, policy makers restricted exports, which helped create a glut. By the time the government reversed course and subsidized exports, many farmers like Mr. Gujar had switched crops. 
 ''Sugar is a political commodity,'' said M. R. Desai, president of the National Federation of Cooperative Sugar Factories, and ''the government is not ready to let go.''
 Even as India rushes toward a future as a technology and services powerhouse, there has been slow, halting progress in its agrarian economy, which still sustains more than half of its 1.1 billion people. Hobbled by small farm sizes, an intense reliance on fickle monsoon rains and extensive government control, Indian farmers are less productive and more vulnerable than their peers in other developing countries like Brazil and China.
 Economists say India's approach to regulating sugar is an example of how populist policies can hurt the very people they were meant to help: farmers and the rural poor. 
 India, of course, is far from alone. The United States restricts imports and uses subsidies to help producers maintain domestic prices at about twice the level of world prices. (Sugar retails for 56 cents a pound in the United States, up 5 percent from December.) 
 Europe also protects its sugar industry. In 2006 the European Commission began changing the way it controls the commodity and started paying high-cost manufacturers to stop making sugar.
 Sugar policies in the West are typically intended to bolster the incomes of politically powerful farmers and factory owners, but here in India, policy makers try to walk the line between helping farmers and consumers. An estimated 28 percent of Indians still live below the poverty line.
 Moreover, sugar is an Indian culinary and cultural touchstone. It is liberally mixed into everything from syrupy tea to dense sweets. (The country's sweet tooth also has a dark side. Diabetes is growing faster here than almost anywhere else in the world.)
 Even now with sugar prices up sharply, demand is growing, because India's population is growing, said Sanjay Manyal, a sugar analyst at Icici Direct.com, a securities firm.
 To meet that demand, India will probably import 20 to 30 percent of the sugar it uses this fiscal year. Less than two years ago, the country exported 20 percent of the sugar it made. 
 To understand India's sugar problems, industry officials say it is important to consider what happened in 2006 when the government banned exports to bring down prices. Those efforts were almost too successful. Within a few months prices began falling as it became clear that farmers had planted too much cane. 
 Farmers said conditions were so bad in 2007 and 2008 that sugar mills, which usually arrange to have cane harvested, did not even bother to send out crews. Many farmers, including Mr. Gujar, burned their crop in the field. 
 ''Government policy, well intentioned though it may have been, seems to have aggravated the cycle,'' said Samir S. Somaiya, president of the Indian Sugar Mills Association and a mill owner.
 The government then tried to help by subsidizing exports. At the same time, farmers began switching to other crops. The ground was being laid for the current shortage. 
 Industry officials and analysts say the recent rise in prices has lured some farmers back to sugar cane, but India will not produce enough to satisfy domestic demand until at least 2011.
 Officials at India's Agriculture Ministry, which regulates sugar, declined to answer questions. 
 In addition to controlling international trade, policy makers decide how much sugar each mill can sell every month, set the minimum price paid to farmers and require factories to sell 10 percent of their product at below-market prices for distribution to the poor. Recently, policy makers also banned futures trading in the commodity.
 Some officials have recommended easing control over sugar, but politicians are reluctant to do anything that might be seen as driving up food prices. 
 Brazil, the world's largest sugar producer, offers an interesting contrast to India's volatile industry. That country has steadily increased production and exports, and now stands to benefit from India's shortage. 
 In recent years Brazil has used more than half of its harvests to produce ethanol, which, when blended with gasoline, has become a profitable fuel. Brazilian factories and farmers grow sugar cane on plantations of hundreds or thousands of acres, while Indian farmers have an average of two acres. The small scale makes it prohibitively expensive for most Indian farmers to invest in efficient irrigation systems or mechanized harvesters.
 Some industry officials here say they are trying to do what Brazil has done on a smaller scale. Factories are installing distilleries to make ethanol from molasses, a byproduct of sugar production, to sell primarily to liquor companies and, to a lesser extent, for use as fuel. Demand for ethanol-blended fuels is low because the price of regular diesel and gasoline is subsidized by the government. Also, India does not require the use of blended fuels, as Brazil and the United States do.
 Sugar factories are also investing in power plants that are fueled by the fiber, or bagasse, left over after juice is squeezed out of the cane. Electricity can fetch high prices because of India's chronic energy shortage, said Rajiv S. Kadapatti, director of Jamkhandi Sugars, which owns a factory in the southern state of Karnataka.
 ''Two years ago sugar gave us no profit,'' he said. ''It was power generation that kept us afloat.''
 Farmers are also diversifying, growing bananas, vegetables and other unregulated cash crops. Residents of Loni Kalbhor, a village about 14 miles from the city of Pune, are eyeing other opportunities.
 Mr. Gujar, the banana grower, expects that he will be able to farm for another decade before his land is swallowed up by the urban sprawl around Pune, which is home to many growing manufacturing and technology companies. Many of his relatives have already quit farming and his teenage son and daughter have no interest in growing bananas or sugar cane.
 ''They won't do this,'' he said. ''They will change.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Tuesday with an article about the effect of government policies on sugar production in India misstated the end of the country's agricultural year. It is Sept. 30 -- not, of course, Sept. 31. (''Thirty days hath September ...'')

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Farmers harvesting sugar cane near Pune, India. Once a major exporter, India may have to import a third of its sugar in the current fiscal year. (pg.B1)
Greenhouses, above, inside a cooperative sugar factory in Satara, near Pune in western India. At left, a worker sorts through bagasse, or the residual fiber left over after the juice is squeezed from sugar cane. The fiber is used as fuel to generate electricity. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PRASHANTH VISHWANATHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) CHARTS: When the price of sugar was falling, many Indian farmers abandoned the crop. Now with prices soaring, India may have to import as much as one-third of their sugar this fiscal year. (Sources: Bloomberg, IciciDirect.com) (pg.B1)
 MAP: In Loni Kalbhor, urban sprawl is displacing small farms. (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); SUGAR FARMING (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FOOD PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); SUGAR MFG (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SUGAR CANE FARMING (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); FAMINE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); POVERTY RATES (73%); EXPORT PROMOTION (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CASE STUDIES (70%); IMPORT CONTROLS (68%); DIABETES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



108 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Tennessee Moves Ahead. What About Long Island?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''In Tennessee Corner, Stimulus Meets New Deal'' (front page, July 28): 
 If Tennessee got the New Deal, Long Island got the No Deal. Isn't it great for Tennessee (population 6.2 million) to reap benefits intended by American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in the tried and tested Works Progress Administration fashion, with 300 new jobs reported in Perry County alone (population 7,600).
 Meanwhile here on Long Island (population 2.8 million), contractors waiting for long-promised stimulus of infrastructure projects a la W.P.A. languish with 35 to 40 percent unemployment. Two stimulus projects finally started in July more than halfway through the construction season and generated a whopping two dozen jobs painting some bridges and patching some roads. 
 Maybe Gov. David A. Paterson of New York should give Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee a call to see what he can do for Long Island.
 Marc Herbst Executive Director Long Island Contractors Association Hauppauge, N.Y., July 28, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); JOB CREATION (87%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (86%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%)

PERSON: PHIL BREDESEN (58%); DAVID PATERSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



109 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Europe Says It Leads U.S. in Broadband Use

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
The European Union has re-established its lead over the United States in the use of high-speed computer connections, making the Continent ''the world leader in broadband Internet,'' the European Commission said on Tuesday. 
 Viviane Reding, the commissioner who oversees the Internet, said that the spread of the technology could help power the European economic recovery and that continuing the development of high-speed Internet could create two million jobs by 2015. But she also warned that obstacles needed to be overcome to maximize the economic benefits from digital networks. In particular, Ms. Reding said, European Union member countries should make it easier for new entrants in telecommunications markets. ''Governments must show leadership by adopting coordinated policies that dismantle existing barriers to new services,'' she said. 
 Despite Europe's leading position, a third of European Union citizens have never used the Internet, and only 7 percent have bought goods or services online from a vendor based in a neighboring country, Ms. Reding said. 
 She acknowledged that many young Internet users were reluctant to pay to download or view digital content like music and movies -- a factor that could blunt the economic gains from increased network access. 
 Europe's broadband lead over the United States narrowed to about one percentage point after 2004, when poorer countries from Eastern Europe joined the bloc, said Martin Selmayr, a spokesman for Ms. Reding.
 The European Union has since regained a lead of three percentage points over the United States, with 23 percent of European homes and business using fixed-line broadband, compared with 20 percent in the United States, Mr. Selmayr said. 
 Denmark has 37 percent of homes and businesses fitted with high-speed Internet, the highest percentage in the world, followed by the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland and Luxembourg, according to figures released on Tuesday by the European Commission. The United States ranked 17th globally, about the same level as Spain, Mr. Selmayr said.
 South Korea, the country with the highest percentage of homes and businesses equipped with high-speed Internet outside Europe, ranked sixth globally, Mr. Selmayr said. 
 Since 2004, the number of European homes connected to the Internet has increased to 60 percent from 41 percent, and of those households 80 percent enjoy high-speed connections, up from 33 percent over the same period, according to the commission. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (72%); JOB CREATION (71%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); FINLAND (78%); DENMARK (78%); LUXEMBOURG (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



110 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Spending More to Win More to Spend More

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
Rumor has it there is a recession going on. Bad one. You might have known this from the whimpering sounds emanating from your 401K statements or the boarded-up storefronts lining your path to work. In the Southeastern Conference, however, it's Boomsville. Its football programs are throwing around more money than the T.A.R.P. program. Florida just hurled $24 million at Coach Urban Meyer for six more years of being Urban Meyer. Recession?! Bah!
 Of course the S.E.C. has always operated as its own sort of universe, CBSSports.com's Dennis Dodd reminds us and Florida will tell you his exorbitant salary is being financed by boosters and sponsors (no word on whether Meyer will be required to shave a swoosh into his haircut). The silliest part is that $24 million will not buy Florida security from speculation that Meyer will leave for Notre Dame at the first opportunity, though Martin Fennelly of the Tampa Tribune says the talk might pipe down for a week or two. 
 If that does not have you shaking your head at the state of Florida, this might: former football coach Lou Holtz, 72, is reportedly considering a run for Congress, as a Republican, in Central Florida, but the Orlando Sentinel article also points out a quote that may not go over so well in a campaign: ''Last year, he called Adolf Hitler a 'great leader' when comparing the Nazi Fuehrer to Michigan Coach Rich Rodriguez. He later issued an on-air apology.''
 Gulp.
 Holtz, however, has nothing on Plaxico Burress in the screw-up department, and after Monday's grand jury indictment, Burress now faces what seems like almost certain jail time for his gun-in-the-pants incident, writes Michael McCann on SI.com. ESPN.com's Lester Munson writes that Burress's decision to testify for the grand jury, um, backfired. Interesting tidbits from the Manhattan district attorney's press release on the indictment: the bullet Burress fired into his leg nearly missed hitting a security guard and the D.A. said Burress had the gun stuffed in the waistband of his jeans, not the sweatpants previously reported (and widely ridiculed).
 Michael Daly of the Daily News writes this reminder of the long, tragic list of victims of stray bullets. Metaphorically, Burress nearly took his Giants teammate Antonio Pierce down with him as well, but the grand jury spared Pierce. Jay Greenburg of the New York Post writes that was a wise decision.
 Pierce has happily returned to the mundane matters of training camp, which is also providing a welcome respite for Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger. The Steelers are happy to have him on board, despite his decidedly un-photogenic appearance accompanying the NBCSports.com article.
 Newport News, Va., will have to wait a little longer to welcome back Michael Vick, with his ''celebration'' now delayed by what organizers call a scheduling conflict. Vick is scheduled to be in Atlanta that day to attend an event organized by the Humane Society of the United States. If Vick were shopping for another football league to play in, the Arena Football League is no longer an option, with it reportedly folding for good. Ray Ratto writes on CBSSports.com that it is a lesson for all those sports believing they are the next big thing. Does that mean beach wrestling is doomed too?
 A lack of money has not seemed to hold the Florida Marlins back much, with the Washington Post looking at why one baseball team always seems to do more with less. And this WSJ.com analysis says that such an approach seems to be the only way to build a successful bullpen.
 Money is the root of the first charge of Internet domain name theft, and brings up the more puzzling question of why Los Angeles Clippers player Mark Madsen is spending $111,000 on eBay for a domain name.
 And if you needed one final reminder -- not provided by your whimpering 401K -- of the recession, consider the plight of the Michigan Sports Hall of Fame's debt problems, despite the fact that the ''Hall of Fame'' is actually a hallway in Cobo Arena lined with plaques, pays no rent and has no employees. And it can still go bankrupt?
 Maybe Meyer can donate some spare change.
 Follow Leading Off on Twitter: twitter.com/zinsernyt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); GRAND JURY (88%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); INDICTMENTS (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHEASTERN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (90%); VIRGINIA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



111 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 579 words

HEADLINE: UBS Cites Restructuring Costs as Quarterly Loss Swells to $1.3 Billion

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
UBS, Switzerland's biggest bank, posted a $1.3 billion quarterly loss on Tuesday, its third, and blamed costs linked to its reorganization program.
 The loss widened to 1.4 billion Swiss francs in the second quarter, from 395 million francs in the same period a year ago. The company cited costs related to job cuts and write-downs to improve the bank's debt position, and it said clients continued to withdraw money from its wealth management units although the rate of net outflows slowed.
 The bank gave a bleak outlook, saying that a sustainable economic ''recovery is not yet visible.'' 
 ''Our outlook remains cautious, consistent with our view that economic recovery will be constrained by low credit creation and the structural weaknesses in consumers' and governments' balance sheets,'' the bank said in a statement.
 Oswald J. Grubel, the bank's chief executive, has cut about 7,500 jobs, reduced risk-weighted assets and sold a unit in Brazil in an effort to return the company to profitability. Credit Suisse and other UBS rivals have recently reported higher earnings as strong performances of their investment banking units outweighed rising bad loans at their retail operations. At UBS, the investment banking business had a pretax loss of 1.85 billion francs, down from 5.24 billion francs a year ago. 
 Mr. Grubel is looking to streamline operations and repair the bank's reputation, which was damaged by its exposure to products linked to the subprime mortgage market and a legal dispute in the United States.
 UBS remains embroiled in a battle with regulators in Washington over demands that it release the names of thousands of its clients. The bank already settled some aspects of the lawsuit, which is linked to claims that UBS helped wealthy clients evade taxes. The company has said it plans to resolve the rest to repair its reputation.
 UBS, which relied on $5.5 billion in government aid to improve its capital base, said net outflows at its wealth management and Swiss bank unit were 16.5 billion francs, mainly from clients outside Switzerland, compared with 23.4 billion francs in the first quarter. Wealth Management Americas lost 5.8 billion francs, down from 16.2 billion francs in the first quarter.
 The bank took a charge of 1.2 billion francs on its own debt and paid 582 million francs in reorganizing costs. It also booked a good will impairment of 492 million francs related to the sale of UBS Pactual in Brazil.
 Earnings at the wealth management and Swiss bank unit were down about half while the pretax loss at its Americas wealth management unit was reduced to about a third. Earnings in the asset management unit dropped 77 percent.
 Northern Rock, the British lender that was bailed out by the government after a run on the bank, also presented a bleak outlook on the economy and continued to struggle to get bad loans under control. The bank, which is now owned by the British government, said its net loss widened to $:770.9 million, or $1.3 billion, in the first half from $:592 million a year earlier.
 Late payments on mortgages rose to 3.9 percent of mortgages in the first half, higher than the national average. 
 Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group, two British lenders that also count the government among their major shareholders, are also to report earnings figures this week. Some analysts expect they too will say that more clients are struggling to repay debt as unemployment rises and house prices fall.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oswald J. Grubel, the chief executive of UBS, has trimmed the bank's payroll by about 7,500 jobs and sold a unit in Brazil. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HARTMANN/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); TAX FRAUD (66%); LITIGATION (63%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (92%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); UBS SA (59%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (92%); UBS (NYSE) (92%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (93%); BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



112 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Health Debate: Costs and Benefits

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Curbing Runaway Health Inflation'' (editorial, Aug. 2):
 Covering more Americans with a public health plan could actually be the ''game changer'' that can ''bend down the cost curve'' of health care. A sensible health reform plan that coordinates and simplifies all government health programs like Medicare, Medicaid and the proposed public option with one easy-to-understand set of rules would reduce confusion and duplicity, and save money.
 Skillfully managed, an organized government health program could significantly reduce costs by negotiating lower reimbursement rates as a volume purchaser of services for more than 100 million consumers. 
 As a former health fraud investigator, I understand that up until now many government health programs have been inefficient, ineffective and easy targets for fraud and abuse. But with meaningful modifications, government health plans could compete favorably with the best private plans, provide an affordable choice to uninsured Americans and significantly reduce runaway health inflation.
 Thomas M. Cassidy Setauket, N.Y., Aug. 3, 2009
 The writer, an economist, is a clinical associate professor in the School of Social Welfare at Stony Brook University and a former senior investigator with the New York State attorney general's Medicaid Fraud Control Unit.
 To the Editor: 
 Your editorial discusses the difficulties in reducing health care costs. But consideration of a few specific areas may facilitate efforts to reduce expenditures, including these: 
 The high overhead costs of for-profit insurance companies.
 The expenditures forced on doctors to comply with the requirements of dealing with so many insurance plans.
 The high costs of malpractice insurance.
 The use of expensive diagnostic tests instead of taking a comprehensive history and doing a complete physical examination.
 The extraordinary amounts of costs associated with treatment of a few specific diseases and with treatment of patients in the last six months of life. 
 The first two would probably be addressed most effectively by a single-payer system. The third involves comprehensive changes in medical liability laws, the fourth a return to the way medicine used to be practiced and the fifth a re-evaluation of issues of ethics and cost-effectiveness. 
 Unfortunately, each of these items introduces at least one 800-pound gorilla into the room. But if you want to increase coverage and to reduce costs, they can't be ignored.
 Stephen J. Seligman Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., Aug. 3, 2009
 The writer is a doctor.
 To the Editor:
 People fearful that under a national health insurance plan they will be paying additional costs for those now uninsured seem unaware of the fact that they already are.
 We all pay the price of care for the uninsured: the ever-rising costs of hospital care, pharmaceuticals, health insurance premiums and government-financed Medicaid -- costs that aren't made known to us in itemized statements.
 A. Regina Schulte Burlington, Wis., Aug. 4, 2009
 To the Editor:
 There are several important issues discussed in your editorial.
 As a family physician for 47 years, I agree that too much money is spent on tests and procedures that do not improve health.
 Why is it predicted that it will take 10 years to get everyone covered? I don't recall that it took nearly that long to insure all the elderly when Medicare began.
 A relatively few doctors don't accept Medicare because they are underpaid by the Medicare-Medicaid system.
 It is clearly evident that the for-profit insurance industry costs our country much more than a public option/universal or single-payer health care system would.
 Removing the profits, advertising and expenses of private insurance companies would more than pay for a public option, and no one would be rejected for a pre-existing condition.
 Melvin H. Kirschner Granada Hills, Calif., Aug. 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 How in the world could one write an editorial about health care inflation without a discussion about the hundreds of billions spent on end-of-life care in this country? I am not talking about compassionate hospice care but worthless high-tech tests, procedures and treatments that extend life but add nothing to quality of life.
 Health care reform will surely fail unless someone with guts steps up to the plate to bring this issue to the fore.
 Michael Franklin Jericho, N.Y., Aug. 2, 2009
 The writer is a doctor.
 To the Editor:
 Your editorial provides a look behind the veil that covers the grave cultural chasm that confronts the nation on health care. We have had several decades of ''excess excess'' in health care.
 The effort to restrain the waste and wrongdoing in the system is called rationing. Too many American declare that their ''right of choice'' entitles them to the privilege of seeking medically unnecessary care that is often also harmful to their health. The physician's power to decide how much and how many tests and procedures is besmirched by a personal profit motive.
 A situation in which Americans seek the fountain of youth and physicians are paid by the number of items of service they provide is, on the face of it, self-destructive.
 Health care reform, quality care at affordable cost, must find a path around the cultural chasm that more is better.
 Glenn Wilson Chapel Hill, N.C., Aug. 2, 2009
 The writer is professor emeritus of social medicine at the University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill School of Medicine.
 To the Editor:
 Universal coverage and cost control are not conflicting aims. 
 Canada spends 10 percent of gross domestic product on health care, and everyone is covered. The United States spends 16 percent of G.D.P., but tens of millions lack coverage. The cost difference is almost entirely due to higher administrative costs and higher prices, which are directly related to the economics of a multi-payer system. 
 The lessons from Canada and other countries are clear. If you focus on cost control, you will fail. If you cover everyone because it's decent and just, you will also achieve economic sustainability. 
 America, it's time to do the right thing and then reap the rich rewards of moral public policy.
 Michael M. Rachlis Toronto, Aug. 2, 2009
 The writer, a doctor, is a health policy consultant.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JIM FRAZIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WRITERS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); MEDICARE (78%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (77%); ETHICS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MEDICARE FRAUD (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); WELFARE FRAUD (74%); INSURANCE (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (71%); DRUG PRICES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



113 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Higher Prices Pushed Up Consumer Spending for June

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The broader economy may be testing the bottom, but for American consumers, there appears to be no end yet in sight for falling wages and higher living expenses.
 That was the picture painted Tuesday by the government's monthly report on personal incomes and consumer spending. While consumers spent more in June, they did so because prices of food and energy were rising, and not because they were ready to spend freely again. 
 Personal incomes sagged as employers continued to cut wages and reduce working hours. And the personal saving rate, which had been rising, dropped sharply from a month earlier as one-time transfer payments from the government stopped arriving in people's bank accounts. 
 ''Consumers are not spending any more money,'' Steven Ricchiuto, chief economist at Mizuho Securities, said. ''They're still consolidating.'' Personal income fell back 1.3 percent in June, just a month after a one-time $250 payment to Social Security recipients lifted it by the same amount. And in a sign of continuing troubles for American workers, private wages and salaries fell for a fourth month, slipping a seasonally adjusted $28.6 billion after a $11.3 billion drop a month earlier.
 Private wages and salaries have fallen for each of the last 10 months as businesses trimmed costs by freezing pay, imposing salary cuts and reducing the work week. Personal income has dropped by a seasonally adjusted $372 billion since September.
 ''Wage and hour cuts are big right now,'' Adam York, an economist at Wells Fargo, said. ''The economy remains fairly weak, and the labor market even weaker. We've lost 6 million jobs, and unemployment is rapidly heading toward 10 percent. There's just not a lot of wage pressure out there right now.''
 The Commerce Department's report showed that while consumer spending was no longer falling precipitously, shoppers were still extremely cautious with their money. Personal spending rose by a seasonally adjusted 0.4 percent in June, but factoring in price changes, real consumer spending slipped 0.1 percent.
 Economists said a strong response to the government's ''cash for clunkers'' auto purchase program was likely to lift spending in July.
 The personal saving rate dropped to 4.6 percent, from 6.2 percent in May, reflecting how people had saved their one-time Social Security payments.
 Since the recession began in December 2007, the national unemployment rate has risen to 9.5 percent, and economists are expecting it to reach 9.6 percent when the government reports its July jobs numbers on Friday. Forecasters expect that the economy lost an additional 328,000 jobs last month after shedding 467,000 jobs in June. 
 A report on home sales that have gone under contract, but not yet closed, offered a bit more cause for optimism. The National Association of Realtors' index of pending home sales was higher for a fifth month in June, rising 3.6 percent in another sign the country's housing market might have hit bottom.
 Economists were expecting a monthly increase of 0.7 percent.
 Lower mortgage rates, falling prices and a tax credit for first-time home buyers have ignited new activity in once-foundering local housing markets. Last month, a closely watched gauge of housing prices showed some of its first positive moves in years, and sales of new and previously owned homes are beginning to stabilize.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Brian Turcotte got gas in June in Lyndonville, Vt. Energy and food costs led the rise in spending. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HERB SWANSON/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHART: PERSONAL INCOME: Total personal income before taxes, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SAVINGS RATES (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WORK WEEK (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOOD PRICES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (66%); MIZUHO SECURITIES CO LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



114 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Bids Start at $300,000 for Chicago's Old Post Office

BYLINE: By ROBERT SHAROFF

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
After 13 years of failed redevelopment efforts, the United States Postal Service is giving up and auctioning off its largest vacant property: the hulking 2.7-million-square-foot old central post office here. 
 The suggested opening bid for the auction is $300,000, which is less than an individual condominium goes for in many of the surrounding downtown buildings. 
 ''We're not looking to recoup any investment here,'' says Tom Samra, vice president of facilities for the postal service in Washington. ''We're going to let the auction decide what the ultimate value is.''
 The service is also not overly concerned about the winning bidder's qualifications or ability to develop the property. ''A qualified bidder is someone who can close on it in 30 days,'' Mr. Samra said. ''Potentially anyone with $300,000 could buy this.'' 
 The question, however, is whether anyone will. 
 Rick Levin, president of a local firm that will conduct the auction, to be held on Aug. 27, said that he expected ''a strong handful of bidders'' and that he had received inquiries from as far away as Europe and the Middle East. 
 ''It's a very attractive price for 2.7 million square feet of space in downtown Chicago,'' he said. But even he acknowledges that in its current state the building, which measures 800 feet long and 350 feet wide, represents a significant challenge to developers. 
 ''It's not the cost of acquisition people need to focus on,'' Mr. Levin said. ''It's the cost of updating. The minimum bid could have been a dollar. We made it $300,000 in order to weed out complete amateurs.''
 Another drawback is maintaining the building, which -- even in its current vacant state -- costs about $2.5 million annually for utilities, maintenance and security.
 The behemoth, which is nine stories tall with 14-story corner towers, is several blocks southwest of the Loop, the downtown central business district. It was designed by Graham, Anderson, Probst & White in a Neoclassical/Art Deco style and built in phases from 1921 to 1932. (Graham, Anderson is the firm responsible for Chicago landmarks like the Wrigley Building, the Civic Opera House and Union Station.) The total cost was $22 million. 
 A peculiarity of the building is that it was built using air rights over railroad tracks that terminate several blocks to the north, at Union Station, and so it has no basement. In addition, the Congress Expressway literally passes through the structure. The two-story-high tunnel carries six lanes of traffic.
 The building is often described as the world's largest post office. At its peak, 5,000 workers processed more than 35 million letters annually, using 10 miles of conveyor belts and 48 elevators. Every day, more than 125 trains and 6,000 trucks arrived at the facility.
 Gradually, however, the building became obsolete as the mail-sorting process was automated. ''The column spacing and the ceiling height do not work for automated operations,'' Mr. Samra said. ''Automated operations require a more horizontal building.'' 
 In 1996, it was replaced by a much smaller building -- 500,000 square feet -- a block south. Still, there is considerable nostalgia for the old facility. 
 ''I miss the grandeur of the lobby,'' said Musette Henley, who worked in the building in a variety of jobs from 1961 until its closing day and is now a customer relations representative in the new facility. ''They don't build buildings like that anymore.''
 The imposing Neoclassical lobby at the north end of the building, which has cream-colored marble walls and an elaborate inlaid marble floor, is certainly a stunner: 340 feet long and 40 feet wide, with a towering 38-foot ceiling. 
 For more than a decade, the Postal Service has been working with Walton Street Capital, a Chicago-based real estate investment firm, to find a new use for the building, with a notable lack of success. ''There have been many iterations of redevelopment possibilities, and market demand has come and gone,'' said Raphael Dawson, a principal of the firm. 
 One early plan called for the building to be converted into a huge telecommunications data storage facility. That plan, however, was derailed by the collapse of the telecom market as well as by changes in banking regulations pertaining to data storage after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. The new regulations made a building constructed over an expressway a problematic candidate for such a facility. 
 The most recent scheme called for demolishing about a third of the building and renovating the rest into a mixed-used structure including offices, a 236-room hotel and 300 residential condominiums, at a cost of about $310 million. 
 This plan -- which involved $51 million in public money from the city -- came closer to breaking ground than many of the others, but it ultimately fizzled this spring because of the economic crisis. 
 ''The crux of the issue has always been getting all of the markets to align properly at a time when you could get them financed,'' Mr. Dawson said.
 Another problem, he added, was the sheer number of agencies with an interest in the development. In addition to having the expressway and railroad tracks, the building borders the Chicago River and is near the city's elevated mass transit system. ''Just about every governmental body you can imagine has some role in making this project work,'' he said. 
 The reaction to the auction has been subdued. John O'Donnell, the president and chief operating officer of the John Buck Company, one of the city's largest developers, said he had no plans to bid on the property.
 ''What can you possibly do with it?'' he asked. ''There's nothing developable downtown for the foreseeable future in any category. There's no retail market, no office market and no residential market.'' 
 Thomas Kirschbraun, international director of Jones Lang LaSalle, a large developer and real estate services firm here, expressed similar feelings. ''Given the size of it and the condition of the financial markets today, it's impossible,'' he said. 
 Indeed, many equate the building with Block 37, the square block on State Street in the Loop that remained vacant for some 20 years before finally being redeveloped in the last few years. 
 ''It's certainly one of the more significant pieces of unfinished business downtown,'' said Michael Jasso, managing deputy commissioner for the city's Department of Community Development. 
 The auction is one of many that the Postal Service expects to conduct as it begins a major downsizing effort aimed at aligning capacity with declining volume. 
 By some measures, the Postal Service is the largest government landlord, with a portfolio of 34,000 properties encompassing 314 million square feet of space across the country. About a third of these facilities are owned; the rest are leased. 
 ''We own the larger properties, which are mainly mail processing centers, and lease the smaller ones, which are mainly post offices,'' Mr. Samra said. 
 After the old post office in Chicago, the second-largest vacant property is a 1.5-million-square-foot mail processing facility in Jersey City. 
 ''We're trying to relate the needs and facilities to the changes,'' Mr. Samra said. ''We believe some facilities will not be needed in the future.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 8, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about the scheduled auction of the old central post office in Chicago, which covers 2.7 million square feet, misidentified the United States Postal Service's second largest vacant property. It is a partly occupied 600,000-square-foot processing and distribution center in Harrisburg, Pa. -- not the 1.5-million-square-foot mail sorting facility in Jersey City, which is still in operation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The former post office building, top, will be offered at auction on Aug. 27. ''It's not the cost of acquisition people need to focus on,'' said Rick Levin, above, whose firm will conduct the auction. ''It's the cost of updating.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM ZBAREN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); POSTAL SERVICE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (77%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (94%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



115 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Liquor License Delays Add to Restaurants' Pain

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
ORHAN CAKIR, the owner of Pierre Loti Cafe and Wine Bar in Manhattan's Gramercy Park, absolutely knew that his two-year-old establishment was quaint enough, romantic enough and popular enough to engender a sibling. Et voila: his dream was realized last month, when he opened a second diminutive restaurant six blocks west that is also -- of course! -- slyly named after an Istanbul-smitten French novelist who was elected to the Academie Francaise in 1891. 
 But it is likely to be six months before Mr. Cakir can secure a liquor license for the new 36-seat Pierre Loti Restaurant on West 15th Street, given current realities at the New York State Liquor Authority. 
 ''We had to open our doors to pay the rent,'' he said, ''but we won't really make any money until we get the license.'' 
 Over the river and into Brooklyn, Felipe Mendez opened his 32-seat taqueria, La Superior, in Williamsburg last year and has been waiting seven months for his license. ''Sometimes people sit down, order, realize they can't get a beer, and leave,'' he said. ''We lose a lot of customers.'' 
 Across the city and the state, rising cries of pain are being heard from restaurateurs and bar owners facing the lengthiest liquor license application delays in memory. Adding to the frustration, the state has renewed its efforts to enforce penalties on the time-honored custom of patrons' bringing their own bottles while a license is pending. As a result, restaurateurs say they face additional financial risks in an unforgiving economy.
 Critics blame the fiscal crisis and understaffing at the State Liquor Authority, which has also been hobbled by the aftermath of a bribery investigation.
 ''They are taking longer than they ever have to approve new applications,'' said Warren B. Pesetsky, a lawyer who represents many applicants and was the authority's general counsel from 1976 to 1981. ''When things were working at their best several years ago, it took three months.''
 New York is not the only city where restaurateurs say the gears of bureaucracy are grinding more deliberately than ever. In San Francisco, it wasn't until mid-July, five months after he applied, that Larry Bain finally got his wine and beer license for Let's be Frank, his grass-fed beef hot dog emporium in the Marina District. 
 ''I have applied for seven licenses during the last 15 years and never waited longer than 10 weeks,'' said Mr. Bain, the proprietor. ''This was a direct impact of California's cutbacks and mandatory furloughs.'' 
 He added: ''Now the governor has announced steeper cuts and the licensing process is just going to slow down even more.'' 
 In Chicago, restaurant licensing can take four to six months and cost $10,000; applications for taverns, given neighbors' objections, can take longer. In Boston, the number of liquor licenses has traditionally been more strictly capped than in New York, and restaurants can wait up to a year. 
 Customarily, alcohol could generate 10 to 30 percent of revenue at a restaurant and 40 to 50 percent of the profit, and owners are losing not only money but also potential customers who recoil from a dry establishment. For years, New Yorkers waited out the approval period by bringing a bottle of wine or a six-pack of beer, but the liquor authority recently sent letters to all license applicants reminding them that the practice is illegal under state law and can be grounds for rejecting an application.
 Mr. Mendez, of La Superior, has had to hand customers a copy of the letter, ''because people get very annoyed at us when we tell them.'' He sighed. ''But they still think it's me saying no.''
 For states, cities and counties, the licensing slowdown means lost tax revenue from establishments that are treading water. 
 Furthermore, the delays have become job-killers, critics say. ''The new-license situation is a crisis,'' said Robert S. Bookman, legislative counsel for the New York City chapters of the New York State Restaurant Association. ''In this economy, we need more licenses, and more jobs. It should be government policy to get these businesses open.''
 Mercat Negre, a 74-seat restaurant that has been unable to open on Grand Street in Williamsburg because of a seven-month licensing logjam, employs a skeleton crew.
 ''We had hired a whole group of people, then lost a lot of them because there is no way of knowing when it will be approved,'' said Andy Egelhoff, a spokesman.
 Statewide, 2,073 licenses were pending as of last week, including renewals; 873 of them for longer than three months. In New York City, Westchester and Long Island, 1,480 licenses were pending, 604 of them for longer than three months. 
 William Crowley, a spokesman for the liquor authority, said that ''we are sympathetic to the fact that there are hardships, and there isn't anyone who wants to see these applications processed more than we do.'' He added of the staff: ''They are working as hard as they can.'' 
 The authority, with its budget of $17 million, is profitable, taking in some $55 million from licensing fees and fines. But among its statewide staff of 156 -- down from 224 full-time employees in 1996 -- the liquor authority has only 20 examiners who handle applications, renewals and permits. There are only nine in the Harlem office that serves New York City, Westchester and Long Island, regulating 65 percent of the state's operating licenses and permits. 
 In April, after a yearlong corruption inquiry, the New York State inspector general raided the Harlem office. Investigators suspected that employees had taken bribes to expedite liquor licenses. So far there have been no arrests in the investigation, which is still before a grand jury. 
 The inquiry ''has made a bad situation worse,'' Mr. Bookman said. ''Everyone there is afraid if they cough, they might get investigated.'' Examiners were also interviewed by the investigators, reducing the amount of staff time available to process licenses. 
 Restaurant and bar owners are to blame for some of the delays. ''Ninety percent of the applications are incomplete when submitted,'' Mr. Crowley said.
 The authority's 26-page ''on-premises'' application requires owners' detailed financial information, prior employment experience, proof of citizenship and floor-plan details, and it also entails fingerprinting and background investigations. It asks whether music will be played (and if so, what kind) and whether dancing is planned.
 Even seemingly straightforward applications can be delayed by a required hearings process, particularly when they fall afoul of the authority's 200-foot rule (governing the proximity to schools, churches, synagogues and mosques) and 500-foot rule (which applies when three liquor-license-holding businesses are within 500 feet of each other).
 Applicants have also being stymied by increasingly empowered community boards that raise objections, both substantive and persnickety. And owners can also be held hostage to reviews by the city's Department of Buildings, since a certificate of occupancy is an application requirement. 
 Such an approval delayed Montenapo, a $4 million Italian restaurant on West 41st Street, overlooking the birch trees in the atrium of The New York Times building. It won its liquor license in six months, ''something we had anticipated,'' said Jozef Juck, a managing partner. But he had not expected that a disagreement with the Department of Buildings over required documents would delay the building's certificate of occupancy, stalling the opening for another two months. Mr. Juck lost 25 of Montenapo's original 60 employees, and a formidable sum of money he declined to reveal. ''We are just happy to be open,'' he said. 
 And after a five-month wait Joaquin Baca, the chef and owner of The Brooklyn Star, a 40-seat restaurant in Williamsburg, won an initial approval in March for a license to serve wine and ''some nice frosty beers,'' he said. Then he learned that he needed a new certificate of occupancy, and has been waiting, alcohol-less, for the city to issue one. 
 For owners, life in red-tape hell can go from frustrating, to infuriating, to totally ''Waiting for Godot.'' 
 ''If you're starting a place and you need a liquor license, you need to put half a million dollars in the bank and be prepared to wait for months and months,'' said Steve Chahalis, 47, a fourth-generation barkeep who is the proprietor, with his father, Tom, 73, of the P&G Bar on the Upper West Side.
 Such was the complexity of the application process that ''I visited the office so many times, it got to the point where the guards stopped asking me for identification,'' Steve Chahalis said. 
 The licensing uncertainty keeps owners from hiring and training staffs well ahead of time, so ''restaurants don't have it together for the first two months,'' Mr. Pesetsky said. Delays can also affect early word of mouth. 
 Gov. David A. Paterson of New York has supported two pending bills that would enable new applicants to be issued temporary alcohol permits until their licenses are approved. 
 ''This is an acknowledgment that Governor Paterson sees that there is a problem here, and wants to see something done about it,'' said Morgan Hook, a spokesman. 
 Despite the delays, Mr. Pesetsky said, ''I am handling the same number of license applications as last year.'' 
 He added: ''People are always going to eat and drink.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE LONG SIP: It's fruit drinks only at La Superior in Brooklyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
 HEADACHES: Orhan Cakir's restaurant has no liquor license. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); DRINKING PLACES (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); BEER & ALE (78%); APPROVALS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); BRIBERY (62%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (61%); MEATS (60%); LAWYERS (60%); BEEF (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



116 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: When David Fought Goliath in Washington Square Park

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
WRESTLING WITH MOSES 
 How Jane Jacobs Took On New York's Master Builder and Transformed the American City 
 By Anthony Flint 
 Illustrated. 231 pages. Random House. $27. 
 Robert Moses and Jane Jacobs are the subject and the author of two of the most indelible nonfiction books of the 20th century: Robert Caro's biography of Moses, ''The Power Broker'' (1974) and Jacobs's own ''Death and Life of Great American Cities'' (1961). If you want to know about these towering oppositional figures, those are the bedrock texts, and neither feels remotely like homework: they're as alive today as when they were written.
 It's not immediately clear, in other words, why anyone needs a book like Anthony Flint's well-carpentered but breezy ''Wrestling With Moses: How Jane Jacobs Took On New York's Master Builder and Transformed the American City.''
 Yet Mr. Flint, a former reporter for The Boston Globe, makes an interesting case for his book's relevance. He points out the curious fact that Jacobs is not mentioned once in ''The Power Broker.'' Mr. Caro had devoted an entire chapter to her in his original manuscript, but for space reasons it was cut from the 1,246-page published version. 
 What's more, Jacobs fended off biographers. Despite Alice S. Alexiou's biography, published by Rutgers University Press in 2006, the intricacies of her life and her battles with Moses are not well known.
 Moses and Jacobs clashed during the 1950s and '60s over three of the huge public works projects Moses tried to force on Manhattan. It is hard even to list them now without cringing -- or nearly weeping with gratitude that they never came to pass.
 There was his plan to build a four-lane highway through the middle of Washington Square Park. Another project would have razed 14 blocks in the heart of Greenwich Village under the guise of urban renewal. There was also a plan to plunge a 10-lane elevated superhighway, to be called the Lower Manhattan Expressway, through SoHo, Little Italy, Chinatown and the Lower East Side. 
 Each of these projects is, from today's vantage point, clearly insane; each would have had cataclysmic effects on the quality of life in Manhattan. But their flaws were less obvious to many at the time. It took an accidental activist, Jacobs, and her ability to marshal popular support and political will, to stop them. The battles over all three projects form the spine of ''Wrestling With Moses.''
 Robert Moses (1888-1981) and Jane Jacobs (1916-2006) were almost perfect antagonists. He grew up wealthy on East 46th Street in Manhattan, attended Yale and Oxford and, after becoming a close aid to Gov. Alfred E. Smith of New York in the 1920s, held a series of appointed positions that allowed him to become, for more than four decades, the driving and nearly omnipotent force behind the rapidly changing physical environment of New York. 
 He was a workaholic, and ruthless -- a man driven to get things done. And get things done he did: Moses built Lincoln Center, Shea Stadium, Jones Beach, the United Nations, the Central Park Zoo and the Niagara and St. Lawrence power projects. He built the Long Island and Cross Bronx Expressways, the West Side Highway and the Triborough and Verrazano-Narrows Bridges.
 Mr. Flint writes: ''He was responsible for 13 bridges, 2 tunnels, 637 miles of highways, 658 playgrounds, 10 giant public swimming pools, 17 state parks and dozens of new or renovated city parks.'' He was not used to people standing in his way. 
 Jane Jacobs (nee Jane Butzner), on the other hand, was born in Scranton, Pa., the daughter of a family physician and a schoolteacher. When she moved to New York City in 1934 at 18, she had only a high school diploma and a degree from a secretarial and stenography school. 
 She worked at secretarial and low-paying journalism jobs until she began to get assignments from Vogue and later Architectural Forum, where she became an editor. In 1944 she married the architect Robert Hyde Jacobs, and the couple refurbished and moved into a three-story building on Hudson Street in the West Village. 
 In her journalism Jacobs became an ardent critic of urban renewal, the tearing down of old neighborhoods to make way for blocklike towers and other ''improvements.'' Her big breakthrough came in 1958, when she got an assignment from William H. Whyte, an editor at Fortune (and the author of ''The Organization Man''), to put her ideas into an article called ''Downtown Is for People.'' It put her on the map, and led to the publication of ''The Death and Life of American Cities'' three years later. 
 Around the time she was writing ''Downtown Is for People,'' Jacobs became involved in the fight against the proposed highway through Washington Square Park -- a park where her own children had often played. 
 She helped rally prominent citizens like Eleanor Roosevelt, Margaret Mead and the New Yorker architectural critic Lewis Mumford to the cause. Jacobs was a kind of ''war-room impresario,'' Mr. Flint writes, who urged a three-pronged attack: ''grassroots organizing, designed to draw in more allies, more pressure on local politicians, and a stepped-up campaign to gain attention in the media.'' 
 Mr. Flint makes Jacobs's war rooms sound like nice places to be. People sat around the table during meetings, he writes, drinking martinis and smoking cigarettes. So many people came every night that Jacobs disconnected her doorbell and began to leave her door unlocked. 
 Mr. Flint neatly summarizes all three battles between Jacobs and her forces and Moses and his. He captures Mr. Moses's pique at being stymied. ''There is nobody against this,'' he sputtered about the Washington Square Park plan. ''Nobody, nobody, nobody but a bunch of, a bunch of mothers.'' 
 Mr. Flint describes how ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities'' came to be written, and puts it in context amid the classics of dissent in the early 1960s, books that included ''Silent Spring'' by Rachel Carson, ''The Feminine Mystique'' by Betty Friedan, ''The Other America'' by Michael Harrington and ''Unsafe at Any Speed'' by Ralph Nader. 
 Jacobs became famous (she was photographed by Diane Arbus for Esquire), but she ultimately grew tired of the spotlight and of public battles; she wanted to spend more time writing books. She and her family moved in 1968 to Toronto, partly for the peace and quiet (though she was dragged into urban planning issues there) and partly so her sons would not be drafted to fight in Vietnam. 
 About her years on the barricades, she later told one interviewer: ''I hate the government for making my life absurd.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anthony Flint
In the late 1950s Jane Jacobs, left, campaigned successfully to stop Robert Moses' plan to extend Fifth Avenue as a four-lane highway through the center of Washington Square Park, above.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); PUBLISHING (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Wrestling With Moses (Book); Wrestling With Moses (Book)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



117 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: Arena Football Not Quite Dead Yet, but Barely Breathing

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The Arena Football League appears close to putting its 50-yard padded fields into permanent storage. 
 ''We're suspending operations indefinitely for economic reasons,'' said Jim Ferraro, a lawyer who owns the Cleveland Gladiators, which formerly played in New Jersey and Las Vegas. ''We're not folding or filing for bankruptcy. So we're technically alive, but can I tell you if we'll be playing in 2010 or 2011? Clearly, I cannot.''
 The league, which began in 1987, has no central office, no commissioner and almost no employees. 
 It canceled the 2009 season late last year to reduce costs. Its salary cap, which was cut in half, probably did not offer enough relief. Creditors could push the league into bankruptcy court.
 The league is about $14 million in debt. Most teams were losing money. Some owners' core businesses have had serious setbacks because of the recession. An anticipated investment of $100 million by Platinum Equity, a private investment firm, which would have remade the A.F.L. into a single-entity structure, fell through last year.
 Without Platinum's infusion, said Ed Policy, the league's former acting commissioner, ''the only source of capital contribution left was from the owners.'' He noted that ''some wanted to, some couldn't, some wouldn't.''
 Ferraro said that his fellow owners in the league rarely agree on anything.
 ''To get anything significant done, you need a 75 percent vote, and they can't get a 75 percent vote on anything,'' he said. ''I don't think we can get a 75 percent vote to order a pizza.''
 Ferraro said that he and some of the owners wanted to play in 2010. But not enough would put up the money necessary to continue. 
 ''There isn't a majority to fund; I'd even fund more than my share, if I could get it back,'' he said.
 Brett Bouchy, the majority owner of the Arizona Rattlers, told The Orlando Sentinel that he was stunned that the league had come to the brink of extinction, joining the United States Football League, the World Football League and the XFL. Meanwhile, the United Football League is preparing for its first season.
 ''If you had asked me 90 days ago,'' Bouchy told The Sentinel, ''I would have told you there was a 98 percent chance that the league would be back and playing in 2010.''
 To its credit, the A.F.L. had found a comfortable and more valuable niche as a low-cost entertainment that appealed to families. Players were contractually obligated to sign autographs. ESPN had a five-year deal to carry the league and share revenues (now terminated), similar to a deal the A.F.L. had with NBC.
 A critical barometer of success became the rising value of league franchises. Teams that sold for a few hundred thousand dollars a dozen or so years ago were worth $12 million (the New York Dragons) to $19 million (Tampa Bay Storm) when they were sold in the past two years. The Storm's new majority owner, Robert Nucci, saw his team play one season; the group led by Steven Silva that bought the Dragons will likely see nothing.
 The A.F.L. ended its 2008 season with 17 teams. But soon after, the New Orleans VooDoo, which was owned by Tom Benson of the New Orleans Saints, dropped out. Four months ago, the Los Angeles Avengers, owned by Casey Wasserman, a sports and entertainment entrepreneur, ended its franchise.
 National Football League owners were enamored enough of the A.F.L. to buy several teams. Currently, the Cowboys' Jerry Jones owns the Dallas Desperadoes; the Broncos' Pat Bowlen owns the Colorado Crush with his former quarterback, John Elway and the Nuggets owner, Stan Kroenke; and the Atlanta Falcons' Arthur Blank owns the Georgia Force.
 The most famous owner is Jon Bon Jovi, who co-owns the Philadelphia Soul, last year's Arena Bowl champion.
 David Baker, the commissioner for 12 successful years until his resignation last year, said in an e-mail message: ''I am saddened that the second-oldest football league in American history appears to be ceasing operations. I only hope that the fan-friendly mission of the A.F.L. will always be remembered and, perhaps, someday resurrected.''
 Policy said, ''I think in some capacity, some of these owners will play arena football in two or three years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jon Bon Jovi, co-owner of the Philadelphia Soul, celebrating the 2008 Arena League title. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); CELEBRITIES (67%)

PERSON: JON BON JOVI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



118 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Effort Aids Only 9% of Eligible Homeowners

BYLINE: By ANDREA FULLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Treasury Department said on Tuesday that only a small number of homeowners -- 235,247, or 9 percent of those eligible -- had been helped by the latest government program created to modify home loans and prevent foreclosures.
 A report released by Treasury officials identified lenders who had made slow progress in offering more affordable mortgages, naming Bank of America and Wells Fargo as among those failing to reach large numbers of eligible borrowers. 
 While 15 percent of eligible homeowners have been offered help through the mortgage modification program, the low rate of actual mortgage reductions has frustrated administration officials. 
 Michael S. Barr, the assistant secretary for financial institutions, said in a news conference that there were ''significant variations'' in performance and that some institutions had made ''an infinitesimally small amount'' of progress.
 ''I think it's safe to say we're disappointed in the performance of some of the servicers,'' Mr. Barr said. ''We expect them to do more.''
 The release of data showing the progress of individual institutions is part of a Treasury effort to push banks to modify loans faster.
 Under the $75 billion program, homeowners whose monthly mortgage payments are more than 31 percent of their gross income are eligible for modified loans, with interest rates as low as 2 percent. 
 Bank of America has modified only 4 percent of the eligible mortgages, and Wells Fargo has modified 6 percent. 
 Citimortgage, a unit of Citigroup, fared better at 15 percent, while JPMorgan Chase was among the most successful, modifying loans for 20 percent of eligible borrowers. 
 All four institutions received federal bailout money. 
 Since President Obama announced the mortgage modification program in February, mortgage holders have criticized the slow response by lenders. The Treasury Department hopes to reach as many as four million borrowers through the program in the next three years. Mr. Barr said he expected institutions to modify 500,000 loans through the program by November. 
 ''We're going to pay specific attention to making sure that the institutions that have been slow out of the block ramp up more quickly and more effectively,'' he said. 
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner met on July 28 with lenders who had signed agreements to participate and asked them to streamline the application process and improve customer service. 
 ''For us the bottom line is, they need to reach the borrowers,'' Mr. Barr said. ''For some of them that means better training, for some of them that means ramping up capacity, for some of them that means treating people better in their call centers.''
 The Treasury Department hopes the name-and-shame tactic will encourage banks to improve. In addition, Freddie Mac, the government-controlled mortgage buyer, will audit rejected applications. 
 Wells Fargo and Bank of America issued statements on Tuesday promising to comply with the program. 
 ''Despite our aggressive efforts to find solutions for homeowners in default, we must improve our processes for reaching those in need,'' said Barbara J. Desoer, president of Bank of America Home Loans. She said that Bank of America completed 150,000 modifications through its own programs in the first half of 2009.
 Mike Heid, a president of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, said the company would now send eligible customers a trial modification agreement within 48 hours of their initial contact.
 ''Our company has been accelerating our use of HAMP,'' said Mr. Heid, referring to what is officially the Home Affordable Modification Program. ''We're confident we can achieve our portion of the government's goal to reach 500,000 HAMP trial modification starts by Nov. 1.'' 
 But John Taylor, president of the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, said the government should not depend on voluntarily compliance from banks.
 ''There are other modifications that Wells Fargo and Bank of America would argue that they're making,'' he said. ''But maybe they're making modifications that are not as deep or consistent with the guidelines.''
 Michael Calhoun, president of the Center for Responsible Lending, was also skeptical that banks had enough incentive to comply with the program. The Treasury Department offers $1,000 payments to lenders for each modified loan and pays lenders part of the difference between borrowers' old monthly payments and their new ones. 
 ''For over three years, leaders have insisted they can handle this crisis on their own, but today's report shows that the time for voluntary action is over,'' Mr. Calhoun said in a statement.
 Kathleen Day, a spokeswoman for the center, said: ''There's still a lot of market reasons why they wouldn't do it. Some may not have the warm bodies to do it. They may feel overwhelmed.''
 That would change, she said, if banks knew judges could modify mortgages in bankruptcy courts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); US PRESIDENTS (63%); CALL CENTERS (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



119 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: A Meandering Wall Street Manages to Extend a Rally

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street was torn in two directions on Tuesday.
 An increase in the number of home sales under contract added to hopes that the housing market's three-year decline had hit bottom and was beginning to reverse course. 
 But a separate report showed that Americans were earning less, and spending more only to keep up with rising food and energy prices, casting a pall over any notion of a consumer-driven recovery. 
 So one day after markets rose to their highest levels of the year -- and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed above the 1,000-point level -- Wall Street meandered for much of the day, swinging between positive and negative before all three market gauges ended the day slightly higher. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average closed up 33.63 points, or 0.36 percent, at 9,320.19, while the S.& P. 500 rose 3.02 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,005.65. The Nasdaq gained 2.7 points, or 0.13 percent, to 2,011.31. Shares in Europe closed down slightly.
 With stocks at their highest levels since autumn and more expensive on a price-to-earnings basis, some analysts are expecting a correction. But even bearish traders are reluctant to bet their money on such a move.
 ''You can't knock this market down,'' said Joe Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading. ''I don't think people can justify this market move, but it feels strong. Every dip is bought. Any sort of downdraft is picked up right away. I am extremely bearish, but I will not short this.''
 Even as the broad market headed sideways on Tuesday, its riskier sectors showed strength while its defensive side was pulled down. The S.& P.'s financial index rose the most of 10 market sectors while utilities stocks -- a favorite during bear markets and downturns -- fell the most.
 Prices of commodities like fuel and copper retreated after rising on speculation that the eventual end of the recession and a global recovery would spur demand. The price of crude oil, which rose to almost $72 a barrel on Monday, fell slightly and settled at $71.42 a barrel. 
 Energy producers, whose stock prices often follow the fluctuations in oil markets, were mostly lower. Shares of Marathon Oil fell 0.5 percent while Hess was down 2.7 percent. 
 And investors strayed from high-tech companies, wary that their shares had risen too far and too fast.
 Home builders and construction companies were mixed as investors reacted to a smaller-than-expected loss by the builder D. R. Horton and weighed an industry report showing a 3.6 percent increase in pending home sales in June. Shares of D. R. Horton gained 4.9 percent, to end at $12.32.
 The National Association of Realtors said that the increase in pending sales -- a forward-looking measure of the market -- offered another sign that housing was on the mend. The bump came as sales of new and previously owned homes have leveled off, and single-family home prices have begun to show some stability.
 But a weak report on consumer incomes and consumer spending showed that many Americans' were still struggling and would probably continue to do so as unemployment headed higher. The unemployment rate has reached 9.5 percent, and forecasters say they believe it will rise to 9.6 percent when the government releases the jobless numbers for July on Friday. 
 ''Reduced wealth, high debt, tight credit and a weakening labor market are all weighing on consumers,'' Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight, wrote in a research note. ''Consumers remain a missing link in hopes for strong recovery.''
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 13/32, to 95 14/32. The yield rose to 3.68 percent, from 3.63 percent late Monday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of four-week bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE DOW MINUTE BY MINUTE: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RECESSION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); FOOD PRICES (71%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%)

COMPANY: MARATHON OIL CORP (51%); D R HORTON INC (50%)

TICKER: MRO (NYSE) (51%); DHI (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447190 OTHER GASOLINE STATIONS (51%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (51%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (51%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (50%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



120 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 264 words

HEADLINE: D.R. Horton and Pulte, Home Builders, Post Losses

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
D. R. Horton and Pulte Homes, the two largest home builders in the United States, reported quarterly losses and said the outlook for the housing market remained difficult. 
 The builders announced lower orders and revenue as the three-year housing slump eroded demand. They, and Centex, which reported earnings on Monday, were forced to cut prices by an average of 8.7 percent to lure buyers. Foreclosure filings increased to a record 1.5 million in the first half of 2009, the property data service RealtyTrac Inc. reported.
 D. R. Horton on Tuesday reported its ninth consecutive quarterly loss. The fiscal third-quarter net loss narrowed to $142.3 million, or 45 cents a share, from $399.3 million, or $1.26 a share, a year earlier, the company said in a statement. Analysts projected a net loss of 21 cents a share, according to the average of 14 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.
 Revenue fell 36 percent, to $914.1 million, and orders dropped 7.5 percent, to 5,089. The results included $110.9 million in pretax expenses to write down inventory, deposits and options on land..
 Pulte Homes on Monday reported that its second-quarter loss widened to $189.5 million, or 74 cents a share. Revenue fell 58 percent, to $678.6 million.
 The average price for a Pulte home in the second quarter was $261,000, 8.7 percent lower than a year earlier, the company said.
 New orders fell 34 percent, to 3,367 homes, and closings in the quarter fell 54 percent, to 2,500, Pulte said. The value of Pulte's backlog, or homes under contract and not yet sold, fell 56 percent, to $1.06 billion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: D. R. Horton logged its ninth straight loss, as orders fell for houses like this one in Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GUTIERREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (93%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRICE CUTTING (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); FORECLOSURE (73%)

COMPANY: D R HORTON INC (92%); PULTEGROUP INC (84%)

TICKER: DHI (NYSE) (92%); PHM (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%); NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (84%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



121 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Loss Widens at GMAC, A Lender in Transition

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
GMAC said on Tuesday that it posted a wider second-quarter loss of $3.9 billion as it shifted from being primarily an auto and mortgage loan company to an online retail bank. 
 In the year-ago period, the company posted a loss of $2.48 billion. Revenue during the quarter fell 28 percent, to $1.27 billion, from $1.76 billion.
 The bulk of the latest quarterly loss stems from a $1.6 billion charge related to the company's mortgage business. GMAC also had a $1.2 billion tax charge on its conversion from a partnership to a privately held corporation. The company remains a preferred lender to the General Motors Company.
 Excluding those charges, GMAC said its second-quarter loss was about $400 million.
 Results were weighed down by ResCap, GMAC's mortgage division, which posted a loss of $841.1 million in the quarter. That was narrower than the $1.86 billion loss suffered in the second quarter of 2008.
 Robert Hull, the company's chief financial officer, said in a conference call with analysts that it would retain its ResCap unit, despite the losses.
 ''We'll continue to support ResCap as long it supports interests of our stakeholders,'' he said. ''I think we're handling it.''
 Midway through the quarter, GMAC added the Chrysler Group as a preferred lender. However, GMAC's automotive unit lost $727 million in the quarter, compared with a loss of $717 million in the second quarter of 2008. Higher unemployment rates in the United States pushed the number of delinquent contracts to 3.4 percent in the quarter, compared with 2.4 percent in the same quarter of 2008.
 In May, the Treasury Department announced a new $7.5 billion injection for GMAC -- still short of the $11.5 billion the government's ''stress test'' last month showed the company would need to stay afloat if the economy worsened. In addition to the $7.5 billion injection, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took the rare step of allowing the junk-rated company to gain access to its debt guarantee program. The Federal Reserve also waived rules to give GMAC's new bank, called Ally Bank, more leeway to make loans to G.M. customers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); RETAIL BANKING (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: ALLY FINANCIAL INC (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (70%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (67%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (92%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



122 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 770 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 NEIGHBORS BY DAY,
 And Soldiers by Night
 The future of the American strategy for securing Afghanistan is already playing out 40 miles south of Kabul where by day, soldiers patrol the bazaar in the district's largest town. But by night, the troops resume the work of war. PAGE A4
 GENERALS DEFEND OUSTER 
 The five generals at the head of the Honduran Armed Forces made a rare appearance on national television to explain their role in last month's ouster of President Manuel Zelaya. PAGE A4
 IRAQIS TAKE ON TRADITION
 It doesn't happen much in the Arab world, but an Iraqi coach started an all-female wrestling team, the first ever in Iraq. And many in their town, Diwaniya, want them to stop wrestling immediately. PAGE A8
 national
 OBAMA PUSHES DEMOCRATS
 For Unity on Health Bill
 President Obama urged Democratic senators to persevere in trying to reach a bipartisan deal on health care, but left open the possibility that they might have to pass a bill with only Democratic votes if Republicans stood in the way. PAGE A3
 TAPES HEARD ON TERROR CASE
 Federal prosecutors in North Carolina used audio tapes in their case against Daniel P. Boyd, who is accused of being the ringleader of a group of Islamic terrorism suspects. PAGE A11
 HOMELESS LEADER ARRESTED
 The leader of a homeless encampment in Providence, R.I., was arrested Friday night on a charge that he had failed to register as a convicted sex offender. PAGE A12
 New York
 IN BROOKLYN REZONING,
 Old Feuds Resurface
 In one neighborhood in Brooklyn, the rush to build moderate-income housing has attracted opposition -- and the rush seems to be part of the problem. The dispute reflects a fight for territory that has played out since the 1960s. PAGE A16
 A MAYOR REFUSES TO QUIT
 Some residents of Ridgefield, N.J., are upset that their mayor, Anthony R. Suarez, refuses to resign after being among the public officials arrested two weeks ago on federal corruption charges. PAGE A14
 Business
 G.M. SWITCHES FOCUS
 On Restoring Market Share
 The new board of General Motors turned their attention to the cars and trucks they hope can quickly restore G.M. to profitability. PAGE B1
 PLANS FOR WEB ADVERTISING
 The new head of the Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal Trade Commission outlined plans that could upset the online advertising ecosystem. PAGE B1
 'CLUNKER' EXTENSION LIKELY
 The secretary of transportation and the Senate majority leader both expressed confidence that the Senate would revive the ''cash for clunkers'' program by voting to infuse it with another $2 billion. PAGE B3
 PRICES BEHIND THE SPENDING
 While consumers spent more in June, a report reveals that they did so because prices of food and energy were rising, not because they were ready to spend again. PAGE B8
 Hackers Hit Gawker Blogs B3
 British Real Estate Thaws B3
 Arts
 A PLAY ON DOWNSIZING
 Before the Word Existed 
 The revival of the 1971 play ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' at the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge, Mass., is about a middle-class couple facing an economic crisis, and it has a startling resonance, Charles Isherwood writes. PAGE C1
 TRACKING NEWS LIFE CYCLES
 Until Media Cloud was created, a comprehensive and reliable database that could track the daily rhythm of the news cycle over time and was available for public use did not exist. PAGE C1
 THE AUGUST BOX OFFICE
 For some high-profile stars and filmmakers, and the studios behind them, August is beginning to look like a crucial test. PAGE C1
 EMMYS REVAMP CEREMONY
 The Emmy Awards ceremony is getting a makeover, and many in Hollywood are not happy about it. A survey revealed a disconnect with the mainstream audiences. PAGE C3
 'Jon & Kate' Bolster TLC Shows C1
 Questions From Joan Rivers C4
 Dining
 LIQUOR LICENSE DELAYS
 Add to Restaurant Pains
 Cries of pain are being heard from bar owners and restaurateurs facing the lengthiest liquor license application delays in memory. PAGE D1
 TAKE ALONG THE KITCHEN
 One task to tackle with summer rentals: navigating the culinary wilderness of rental homes. PAGE D1
 Petals and Syrup, Then Brew D2
 High-Quality Teas From Hawaii D3
 Sports
 EYEING OCTOBER,
 Yankees Rest Pitcher
 The Yankees gave their starter pitcher, Joba Chamberlain, extra days off conserving his innings for possible starts in October. PAGE B15
 CATCHING ON WITH GIANTS
 Without the pass-catching of Plaxico Burress, the Giants needed to fill a major role. And in training camp, 10 receivers are competing for about six jobs. PAGE B13
 Op-ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN PAGE A21
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); ARRESTS (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ZONING (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); WRESTLING (69%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); CORRUPTION (66%); TERRORISM (66%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (65%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (64%); CONSUMER LAW (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (60%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%); FOOD PRICES (60%); MARKET SHARE (60%); RELIGION (51%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (70%); MANUEL ZELAYA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (92%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



123 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: Developer at Ground Zero Seeks Arbitration

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Larry A. Silverstein, the commercial developer at ground zero, asked arbitrators on Tuesday to settle a long-simmering dispute with the Port Authority that threatens to delay other projects at the 16-acre site. 
 Mr. Silverstein said in a statement that the authority's inability to complete the transit hub, a vehicle security center and other projects at the World Trade Center site had undermined his company's ability to build three office towers along Church Street, a claim that was immediately disputed by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey.
 Mr. Silverstein has insisted in recent months that the authority finance two of the towers because he is unable to obtain real estate loans and corporate tenants for the project. Reluctant to invest in speculative office space, the agency has asked Mr. Silverstein to risk his own money before it agrees to put up additional funds.
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and separately, Gov. David A. Paterson, have tried to resolve the impasse with no success.
 ''Today's action is designed to provide a complementary -- and expedited -- route to resolving this impasse,'' the developer's statement said. ''One way or another, we must resolve, once and for all, the disputes that have arisen as a result of the Port Authority's continued and admitted delays.''
 Christopher O. Ward, the authority's executive director, countered that Mr. Silverstein had now rejected four proposals. ''This arbitration process cannot distract from the fundamental point, that Silverstein Properties would rather have public dollars at risk in place of its own private investment,'' he said. 
 Mr. Ward said that the authority ''continues to meet the deadlines and milestones it announced last year.'' Officials for the Sept. 11 memorial have also expressed confidence that it will open on the 10th anniversary of the terrorist attack.
 But according to a confidential report by the Lower Manhattan Construction Command Center, a state-city agency, there is a high risk that the transit center will not be completed until 2018, five years behind the current schedule. The report, which was reported in The Daily News on Tuesday, also said that the memorial and the vehicle security center were also likely to take years longer to finish.
 Mayor Bloomberg cited the report in calling the prospect of additional delays ''simply unacceptable.'' He called for an independent oversight of the Port Authority and its rebuilding efforts. For years, critics say, public officials have based deadlines on politics more than construction planning.
 Governor Paterson, however, said he was disappointed that Mr. Silverstein had sought arbitration. ''During this time of historic economic crisis, we simply cannot put the private interests of a single developer above the interests of the hard-working taxpayers of this state,'' he said. ''Ultimately, an agreement must ensure that our limited public dollars are protected.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); GOVERNORS (76%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (62%); TERRORISM (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%); DAVID PATERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



124 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: Obama Setting Out to Put Brighter Face on Economy

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House is making a major push this week to persuade Americans that President Obama's policies are helping bring the nation out of recession. But a four-letter word -- jobs -- may well get in the way.
 With poll numbers showing that support for Mr. Obama's handling of the economy has declined, the president and other top administration officials -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Commerce Secretary Gary Locke -- will hit the road on Wednesday in a coordinated show of force. 
 They will try to make the case, as the president said Saturday in his weekly address, that ''in the last few months, the economy has done measurably better than expected.''
 They have some statistics to back them up. Figures released last week showed that the economy contracted more slowly in the second quarter than many economists had expected, suggesting that the downturn might be bottoming out. And after a two-year slide, home prices are showing signs of stabilizing in some cities. 
 But those reports are likely to be overshadowed by another. Data to be released on Friday are expected to show that unemployment, 9.5 percent in June, rose again in July, perhaps to more than 10 percent for the first time since 1983. 
 For Americans, double-digit unemployment could be a psychological threshold with political ramifications for Mr. Obama.
 ''The problem he is going to have this week and going forward is that we are going to have a very jobless recovery,'' said Bruce Bartlett, a Treasury official under the first President Bush who has been critical of both Democratic and Republican handling of the economy. ''What good does it do you to know the economy is growing if you're not sharing in that growth through employment?''
 On Wednesday, Mr. Obama, Mr. Biden and the cabinet secretaries will try to answer that question. Officials say they will make a carefully calibrated pitch intended to convince Americans that the administration inherited an economy in free fall and that its $787 billion stimulus package prevented another Great Depression. At the same time, they will caution that the road to full recovery may be a long one.
 ''Let's be very clear on this,'' said Jared Bernstein, the top economic adviser to Mr. Biden. ''Stabilizing or carving out a bottom on these trends just means you're poised for recovery. It doesn't mean you're back. That's a much better place to be in than free fall, but until we see a robust recovery in housing markets, housing prices, in jobs and family income, we're not anywhere near out of the woods.''
 On Wednesday, the White House message will center on how the administration is spending stimulus money. Both Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden will announce grants for advanced-battery and electric vehicle manufacturing, the kind of ''green jobs'' initiative that the president has emphasized as part of the stimulus package. 
 Mr. Biden will go to Detroit, the auto industry capital, while Mr. Obama will make a repeat visit to Elkhart County, Ind., which bills itself as ''the R.V. capital of the world.'' Mr. Locke will be in Kansas City, Mo., and Mr. Chu in Charlotte, N.C.
 Polls suggest that public sentiment about the economy and Mr. Obama's role in it is mixed. The most recent New York Times/CBS News poll, released last week, found that 51 percent of Americans approved of the way Mr. Obama was handling the economy, down from a high of 61 percent in April.
 But 32 percent of respondents said they believed that the economy was getting better, a substantial increase from early February, when just 5 percent said so. And Americans seem to agree with the administration's assessment that recovery will not be quick: the Times/CBS survey found that more than half of all respondents believed that the recession would last two more years or longer.
 In setting forth their case that their policies are improving the economic picture, White House officials like Mr. Bernstein argue that by the end of 2010, unemployment will be two points lower than it would have been had the stimulus bill not been enacted. 
 But that argument has been compromised by the administration's own inaccurate forecasting; in January, the Obama team predicted that unemployment would remain at 8 percent or lower in 2009 if the recovery bill passed. Mr. Biden himself conceded last month that administration officials ''misread how bad the economy was'' before taking office.
 Such missteps have given Republicans an opening to argue that the stimulus plan has failed. After Mr. Biden appeared at the White House on Tuesday to declare ''without reservation'' that the stimulus was working, a spokeswoman for Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, accused the vice president of making a ''completely unsupportable and stunning claim.''
 The back and forth may dominate the August Congressional recess, as lawmakers fan out to their districts to talk to constituents. Congressional Democrats could be in more trouble over the economy than Mr. Obama; the president does not face re-election until 2012, but representatives and many senators will run next year. If the situation does not improve by then, Democratic lawmakers may start to distance themselves from him.
 White House aides know they have a tough sell. As Mr. Bernstein said on Tuesday, ''It's understandably not the most soothing message to say, 'Hey, things could have been worse.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Tuesday with the economic advisers Lawrence H. Summers, left, Christina D. Romer and Peter R. Orszag.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); TRENDS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GARY LOCKE (58%); JARED BERNSTEIN (58%); PETER ORSZAG (58%); STEVEN CHU (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



125 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ON THE WHITE HOUSE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Persistent 'Birthers' Fringe Disorients Strategists

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As President Obama turns 48 today, a few celebrations are on tap inside the White House, including a quiet breakfast with his family, lunch with Democratic senators in the State Dining Room, and dinner with his wife and a few friends.
 The noisier commotion over his birthday is taking place outside the White House. 
 As most of the political conversation in Washington and across the nation has been devoted to health care, the economy and even the president's first nomination to the Supreme Court, a small set of detractors have been obsessively fixated by this date in history: Aug. 4, 1961. That is the day, they argue, that proves that Mr. Obama should not be serving in office because he was not born in the United States.
 Their theory, of course, is false. But that has not stopped cable television and talk radio hosts from dedicating countless hours to the topic.
 So much discussion has taken place that the White House says it has stopped monitoring it and the Republican National Committee has distanced itself from the so-called ''birther movement,'' whose members insist that Mr. Obama was born in Kenya and not Hawaii. The fringe conspiracy theory -- that he is not constitutionally eligible to be president -- has taken on a life of its own and become a dreaded topic for some lawmakers.
 Before House Republicans left Washington for their August break, party strategists offered advice for how to handle the situation if it arises during town meetings with constituents. Don't agree with the conspiracy theory, but show respect and try to broaden the conversation to specific policy disagreements with the Obama administration on health care, taxes or the deficit.
 Representative Neil Abercrombie, Democrat of Hawaii, said Republicans have done too little to try to stop the spread of misinformation.
 ''Some people have rather cynically let it run its course,'' Mr. Abercrombie said in an interview early Tuesday morning from Honolulu. ''It takes advantage of a certain pathological obsession over this election and this person as president. The leadership in the Republican Party could end it very, very quickly and they haven't.''
 There are no living family members to testify to the events of Aug. 4, 1961, at the Kapiolani Maternity and Gynecological Hospital in Honolulu. The president's parents are both deceased, as are his grandparents, who played a significant role in raising him.
 But Mr. Abercrombie, who has represented Hawaii for nearly two decades in Congress, was a close friend of Mr. Obama's parents, who were students at the University of Hawaii in 1961. The president's father, Barack H. Obama Sr., was from Kenya, but Mr. Abercrombie said the suggestion that the Obama baby was born in Africa is an absurd impossibility.
 ''He was born in Kapiolani Hospital, right down the street from where I lived,'' Mr. Abercrombie said. ''They had no money. I can't imagine how they would get to Kenya. It makes no sense at all. It's an insult to his mother.''
 Questions have been swirling around about Mr. Obama's biography -- largely on the internet and on conservative radio and television broadcasts -- since shortly after he announced his presidential bid in early 2007. They were researched by his Democratic and Republican opponents alike, all of whom determined there was no legitimacy to the speculation that Mr. Obama was born in Kenya.
 To satisfy the doubters, the Obama campaign released a copy of his Hawaiian birth certificate during the presidential race. But the fact that it was a copy and not the original, which according to Hawaii law cannot be released publicly, did not quell the furor. So the director of the Department of Health in Hawaii, Dr. Chiyome Fukino, released a statement last fall, and again last month, attesting to the authenticity of the president's birth.
 The state's Republican governor, Linda Lingle, has said that Mr. Obama was born in Hawaii. And several leading Republicans, including the chairman of the national party, Michael Steele, have urged the leaders of the ''birther movement'' to drop the matter.
 ''Chairman Steele believes this is an unnecessary distraction and that the president is a U.S. citizen,'' said Gail Gitcho, a spokesperson for the Republican National Committee. ''He wants to move on and continue talking about real and immediate issues that are facing our nation, like health care and the economy. Chairman Steele has other issues to take up with the president having to do with policy, not a birth certificate.''
 Republicans suggest that some Democrats are trying to keep the matter alive because it makes the Republican Party look bad. MSNBC, which has several liberal-leaning hosts, has discussed the topic frequently in recent days. Orly Taitz, a California dentist and lawyer who is among the leading voices in the anti-Obama movement, made her case in a combative interview on MSNBC.
 ''Obama is completely illegitimate as a U.S. president for two reasons -- not only because he did not provide the place of his birth, but also because both parents have to be U.S. citizens,'' Ms. Taitz said. ''His father was never a U.S. citizen. He was in the United States on a student visa.'' (That, of course, is not true. Both parents do not have to be citizens of the United States for their child to be a citizen.)
 The White House, awash in several real political challenges, has largely ignored the noise. Last week, the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, was asked by a liberal talk radio host, Bill Press, whether there was anything the White House could do to satisfy the critics and make the issue go away.
 ''No, the God's honest truth is no,'' Mr. Gibbs said, calling it ''made-up fictional nonsense.''
 ''If I had some DNA, it wouldn't assuage those who don't believe he was born here,'' Mr. Gibbs said as anger welled in his voice. ''The president was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, the 50th state of the greatest country on the face of the earth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); HISTORY (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); NEIL ABERCROMBIE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%) HAWAII, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); KENYA (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



126 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Neighbors by Day and Soldiers by Night in Afghan District

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO; Ruhullah Khapalwak contributed reporting from Kabul.

DATELINE: BARAKI BARAK, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
As the Obama administration sends thousands of additional troops into Afghanistan, the future of the American strategy for securing the country is already playing out in this verdant triangle of wheat fields and fruit orchards 40 miles south of Kabul. 
 For the last five months, a troop of American soldiers has ensconced itself in the heart of the district's largest town, living alongside its police officers and public officials, trying to win friends as it struggles to root out enemies. 
 By day, the soldiers patrol the bazaar just outside their barbed-wire gates, chatting with merchants and buying their wares. They have hired three dozen local men as day laborers and security guards and committed more than $2 million to improving local roads, schools and government buildings. 
 But by night, the troop resumes the work of war, conducting armed patrols and raids on homes in search of insurgent fighters and bomb makers. As surgically as possible, the soldiers are trying to separate fighters from the villagers who provide them shelter, whether by choice or at gunpoint.
 As the soldiers of Able Troop are finding, their two missions can sometimes clash. 
 On one recent night, American soldiers and Afghan security forces raided four homes in the village of Pabkhuab-e-Rowghani, detaining seven men. But they released the men a day later after determining none were insurgents. Several of the men worked in the bazaar where the soldiers sometimes shop, their wives said.
 ''People are not happy with these night raids,'' said Yasin Ludin, the district chief of Baraki Barak. But he added that villagers would tolerate intrusions provided security improves -- and so far, he and others said, it has. 
 Establishing small beachheads in population centers like Baraki Barak is central to the new Afghan policy recently outlined by Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, the commander of allied forces in Afghanistan. Building off counterinsurgency lessons learned in Iraq, the strategy calls for clearing enemy fighters from towns, then remaining behind to train the police, stimulate economic growth and strengthen local government.
 The trade-off, senior military officers acknowledge, is that the Taliban may gain influence in sparsely populated rural and mountainous regions. 
 With about 130,000 residents, Baraki Barak was a hotspot of insurgent activity a year ago, when rocket attacks on the police station occurred almost nightly. Today such attacks are rare, residents say. Merchants now stay open after dark, and a district chief who had fled to Kabul has returned. The Americans are building new government offices adjacent to their outpost.
 ''Last year, we could not sit here this late,'' said Malaam Zahir, 55, as he sipped tea one evening outside his bakery in the town. ''We can work now.''
 Southeast Logar Province was also a haven from which insurgents organized missions against Kabul, the Afghan capital. Those attacks have declined since the United States stationed about 2,700 soldiers from the Third Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, into Logar and adjacent Wardak Provinces at the beginning of the year, American and Afghan officials say.
 Still, things are far from safe in Baraki Barak. Improvised explosive devices are discovered almost daily in the district's dirt roads. American patrols still come under ambush. Posters threatening villagers who work for the Americans appear regularly in the bazaar. A girls' school was recently set ablaze. And insurgent fighters float in and out of outlying villages with near impunity. 
 In some cases, villagers help insurgents because they support their cause, while others give shelter only under threat. But many, perhaps most, villagers who assist the insurgents do so simply for money, American officials say. For that reason, the American soldiers are pumping money as fast as they can into the local economy.
 ''They are carrying an R.P.G. for $150,'' said Col. David B. Haight, commander of Task Force Spartan, the American force in Wardak and Logar, referring to a rocket-propelled grenade. ''I'm trying to get them to carry a shovel for $150. There may be a guy working for us now that two weeks ago was the enemy.''
 As the night raid in Pabkhuab-e-Rowghani underscores, separating insurgents from the villages is no simple task. 
 American officers called their target ''an intimidator'' who has financed roadside bomb attacks and threatened villagers who cooperated with the Americans. But they had no photograph of him and had to track his movements using sophisticated surveillance equipment. 
 Their plan called for a ''soft knock'' approach different from the door-bashing raids that American officials acknowledge have alienated many people in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 After creeping along irrigation ditches by the light of the stars to reach a walled compound, Afghan national police officers pounded on the metal gate until a man in a white nightshirt emerged. Behind the police officers was a squad of Able Troop soldiers whose commanding officer, a first lieutenant, shouted orders through an interpreter. 
 The Afghan and American forces searched four homes before sending the detainees to an American base for questioning, just as a muezzin began his call to the dawn prayer. 
 Later the American investigators would learn that their target had slipped away just hours before the police and soldiers arrived. 
 Though no doors were kicked in and no one was injured, some of the American soldiers later questioned whether the raid had alienated more villagers than it had secured. 
 The detainees, many barefoot, had been forced to sit or kneel on a dirt path during the room-to-room searches, and after several hours in the cold, some were shivering so vigorously that their teeth chattered. Frightened women and children were awakened and moved into courtyards alongside their cows and goats. 
 Still, several women questioned by an interpreter said that they were glad the Americans had accompanied the Afghan police officers. Alone, those officers would steal from them, the women said.
 Maj. Todd Polk, commander of Able Troop, part of the Third Squadron, 71st Cavalry Regiment, said that he would meet with villager elders if they had complaints about the raid, but that he had not heard of any. 
 Major Polk said he thought villagers were willing to accept some intrusions if they thought it meant greater security. The night after the Pabkhuab-e-Rowghani mission, he said, American and Afghan forces raided a sprawling compound in a nearby village and captured a man thought to be a senior operative of Al Qaeda.
 ''If they don't see people getting stopped for weapons checks, they aren't going to feel as secure,'' Major Polk said. ''We could sit here in our outpost and just do patrols and never get anywhere except have people shoot at us and blow us up.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Third Brigade Combat Team, 10th Mountain Division, detained Afghan men during a night raid in July in Baraki Barak, 40 miles south of Kabul.
The unit's plan called for a ''soft knock'' approach different from door-bashing raids.(pg. A4)
 On a July night, American soldiers and Afghan security forces raided four homes in Baraki Barak district, detaining seven men, including the man above. The men were released a day later.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A9) MAP (pg. A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); CITIES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); BAKERIES (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); STANLEY A MCCHRYSTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



127 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ELKHART JOURNAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Statistics Improve, But Hope Is Elusive

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

DATELINE: ELKHART, Ind. 

 BODY:
If there are glimmers of economic improvement in the official statistics out there somewhere, it is hard to find them along the streets of this county, a place best known for making recreational vehicles and all their parts and pieces and where the rise in unemployment was among the sharpest in the nation the past year. 
 Sharon M. Hartman, laid off from her job of 12 years at a factory making motor home dashboards and instrument panels, says the only signs she sees suggest still more gloom: ''for rent'' postings at house after house and ''no applications'' notes taped to factory doors. 
 ''Think of that,'' said Ms. Hartman, 68. ''A lot of people I know say they're ready to take a waitressing job -- anything at all, but most places won't even let you leave an application now. That is how hopeless it is.''
 When President Obama arrives in this northern Indiana region on Wednesday, his second trip here since taking office, he is certain to find residents eager for his expected announcements of some federal grants (for the manufacture of electric vehicles and advanced batteries). But interviews with nearly two dozen residents suggest he will also find some who are increasingly skeptical of his broader efforts to rebuild the nation's economy and, mainly, of how soon they might begin feeling the effects on their blocks, in their homes. 
 ''To be fair, he didn't get us into all of this, but for me, I also haven't seen any signs that he's getting us out of it,'' said Ms. Hartman, who lost her job in February, just after Mr. Obama last visited to build support for his $787 billion stimulus package.
 Terry Maddox, another factory worker (who still has her job) sounded impatient. ''He's given to the car makers, the banks -- but what about the regular people?'' said Ms. Maddox, who is 50. ''All I see around here is empty houses -- a ghost town.''
 Local officials here, in the region so close to Michigan that it is known as Michiana, say they have lately seen hints of hope. The unemployment rate for the Elkhart metropolitan area, they noted, has actually shrunk since a high of 18.9 percent in March, and only on Tuesday, officials here announced that one maker of R.V. accessories would expand and predicted 357 new jobs in the region by 2012. 
 In June, the jobless rate was 16.8 percent (though some experts cautioned that the drop might be in part because of seasonal jobs in an area known for summertime tourism). Regardless, even the improved unemployment figure, far above the national average, was 10 percentage points higher than it had been one year before, giving Elkhart one of the steepest job declines in the country.
 Meanwhile, the city of Elkhart, home to about 52,000 people, has been promised $14 million in federal stimulus money, said Mayor Dick Moore, who happily ticks off the projects to be paid for: improvements to streets, a sewage treatment plant, an airport runway, police squad cars and more. Elkhart County, with a population of nearly 200,000, will get millions more, Mr. Moore said, and millions more are being sought. 
 ''We all know this doesn't help the guy who is unemployed right now, but it will,'' said Mr. Moore, a Democrat. ''I don't know if I'm seeing the end of this, but I'm certainly seeing the light.'' 
 Others here saw grimmer signs. Unemployment insurance, even with federal and state extensions, is running out for many or will soon.
 Others here said friends had simply given up and moved away from here, a place that had once been so flush with R.V. jobs that people could count on switching from one factory to another if they wished to in a matter of hours or days. And at The Window, a food pantry in nearby Goshen, Ed Swartley, the executive director, said those seeking food had increased in the past month.
 Even for those with steady jobs, some here said they were increasingly unsure of President Obama's efforts to repair the economy. Indiana -- with its Republican governor, Republican-dominated State Senate and a mostly fiscally conservative tilt -- had long backed Republicans for president. Mr. Obama surprised many (even here) when he carried the state last year -- a rare exception (along with Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964) over more than half a century. But in Elkhart County, Senator John McCain won 55.1 percent of the vote to Mr. Obama's 43.9 percent.
 ''How are we going to pay for all this?'' asked Maria T. Hopman, 59, one of those who voted for Mr. McCain. And the stimulus plan, so far, Ms. Hopman said, had not provided work for five friends who lost jobs. ''It'll be great for construction workers, sure, or heavy machinery operators, but what about the ordinary worker?''
 But Steven Halliburton, 41, a laid-off factory worker, urged patience.
 ''It's going to take a lot longer than this; we've got to be realistic,'' said Mr. Halliburton, an Obama supporter who will, he said, soon run out of unemployment benefits. ''It took us eight years to get into this mess so it's going to take a while.''
 Mr. Obama is expected to appear in an R.V. factory -- shuttered last summer but gearing back up -- in Wakarusa, an Elkhart County town of fewer than 1,800 people, 12 miles south of here. Ed Neufeldt, a worker at the Wakarusa plant, was laid off after 32 years there; two of his daughters and two of his sons-in-law also lost their jobs in the R.V. industry, and their families are struggling, he said. 
 In February, Mr. Neufeldt, 63, was stunned, he said, to be asked to introduce Mr. Obama when he spoke in Elkhart. Backstage, Mr. Neufeldt recalled, Mr. Obama had told him, ''We'll get you back to work, Ed.'' 
 These days, Mr. Neufeldt has been delivering bread, part time, but he is still hoping to return to a factory. Of the president's assurance, he said, ''I'm waiting.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Utility hookups stood in a weed-choked field in Elkhart, Ind., a symbol in a region where there is a sometimes uncertain future for construction.
STEVEN HALLIBURTON: Laid off factory worker.
SHARON M. HARTMAN: Laid off from her job of 12 years.
 MARIA T. HOPMAN: Employed at Seifert Drug for 30 years.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Unemployment rate in the metropolitan area of Elkhart-Goshen, Ind.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); STATISTICS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LAYOFFS (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (67%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); CITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



128 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: What Trump Gets, Not Everyone Can

BYLINE: By LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and EDWARD HADAS

 BODY:
Donald Trump's latest resurrection isn't necessarily a bellwether for other buyouts. The casino mogul turned reality television star has persuaded a bank to restructure a loan to allow his Atlantic City casinos to emerge from bankruptcy -- again. While that sounds like an encouraging return of risky lending, it doesn't necessarily mean financing will flow for private equity firms seeking to fix their own problem companies. 
 Trump Entertainment Resorts entered bankruptcy for the third time in February, and a clash with its bondholders led Mr. Trump to resign as chairman. He subsequently bid to buy the company for $100 million, a deal that the company chose over a competing offer from bondholders. As part of the deal, Beal Bank Nevada agreed to extend the repayment date on a $486 million loan. 
 Other investors, including private equity firms, are seeking to restructure loans. But buyout shops aren't finding it so easy. Deutsche Bank played hardball before recently agreeing to a debt swap proposed by Kellwood, a clothing retailer owned by Sun Capital. And JPMorgan Chase is fighting the bankrupt cable company Charter Communications over a restructuring plan that could disadvantage its senior lenders.
 Beal Bank may be cutting Mr. Trump some slack because the casinos are so closely tied to his personal brand. And Mr. Trump may be a rarity in believing the casinos have a future. Whether they like it or not, he may be lenders' best hope for recovering some of what they are owed.
 By contrast, some other failed companies have attracted flocks of vultures, giving them more options. Nortel, for example, recently received several bids for one of its units.
 Private equity firms also may not want to take the same trouble as Mr. Trump to revive failed companies they own. They often prefer to leave them in the hands of creditors and move on to other targets. Mr. Trump's personal involvement in the Atlantic City properties gives him more reason to go the extra mile. Beal Bank must be hoping his third new beginning proves to be the charm.
 Price Conspiracy?
 The global economy is still suffering, yet the oil price has risen to $72 a barrel, from $34, in five months. Copper, sugar and iron ore prices are also up strongly. Could this be a conspiracy of traders, speculators and investment banks? Britain's Financial Services Authority is taking a look, following its American regulatory counterparts. 
 The debate is fierce. On one side is common sense. Commodity funds and many speculators both chase and create market momentum. They tend to push prices up or down more than is justified by industrial supply and demand. 
 On the other side are articulate defenders of a profitable trading business -- as well as a mass of confusing market information. Data can be found to demonstrate that ''fundamentals'' determine prices, especially if those fundamentals include financial conditions and producers' expectations. 
 Regulators are mulling various changes. One would require more transparency. That might help prevent manipulation, but it is still hard to corner markets that are mostly large and liquid. 
 The effort to flush out speculators won't, however, do much to ease price volatility. As long as commodity prices vary with financial trends -- rising sharply when money is easy and falling fast when credit is squeezed -- these markets will attract traders' interest. Crack down in one place and they will come up somewhere else. 
 There are two effective ways to reduce volatility in commodity prices, though both are beyond the control of market regulators. First, get rid of easy money. With low inflation, reasonably high and stable real interest rates, and credit in fairly short supply, the financial winds wouldn't blow strongly enough to retain the interest of speculators. 
 Second, rely less on spot and more on cost-based prices. Most commodities come out of mines and wells that last decades, and flow to buyers who need steady supplies and would prefer steady prices. 
 But for the last few decades, prices have increasingly been set in volatile markets dominated by financial, rather than industrial, considerations. If the trend can be reversed, there will be no need to hunt for the witches of speculation.
 LAUREN SILVA LAUGHLIN and EDWARD HADAS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donald Trump negotiated a repayment extension on a $486 million loan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANNIE GARCIA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); BONDS (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); CABLE INDUSTRY (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); SECURITIES LAW (73%); RETAILERS (73%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); OIL & GAS PRICES (61%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (72%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



129 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE WORK-UP; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: For Health Insurers' Lobbyist, Good Will Is Being Put to Test

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON

 BODY:
 For the insurance industry, long an opponent of health care reform, it was a striking change: with a new administration coming to Washington, insurers agreed to abandon some of their most controversial practices, like denying coverage to applicants with pre-existing medical conditions.
 One of the main architects of the friendly approach, Karen M. Ignagni, the industry's chief lobbyist, personally pledged to President Obama that insurers would not stand in the way of a sweeping overhaul this time. 
 For a while, it seemed to be working -- until recently, when the insurance industry re-emerged as Washington's favorite target. ''Villains,'' Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, called health insurers. And Mr. Obama derided the industry for pocketing ''windfall profits.''
 Taken aback, Ms. Ignagni, the 55-year-old chief executive of the trade group America's Health Insurance Plans, wondered on Tuesday why insurers were being singled out when, in her view, they had accepted that change was necessary. 
 ''Attacking our community will not help get anyone covered,'' she said. While taking a conciliatory tack and insisting that insurers remain committed to reform, she says they will aggressively counter the criticism. ''What we have to do is make sure we correct the record,'' she said.
 As the debate heats up, Ms. Ignagni is facing her toughest test. After winning concessions, and consensus, from many insurance companies with competing interests, she now has to keep them together as the assault on the industry picks up. Rather than being cut out of the conversation, her strategy has been to push for changes her members can live with, in hopes of fending off too much government interference. 
 Despite her efforts to ally the industry with Washington, however, it risks being thrust in the same role it played 15 years ago when it helped derail reform.
 For months, it appeared Ms. Ignagni was successfully walking a fine line between convincing Congress that the insurers were serious about changing the way they do business and still protecting the companies' financial interests from far-reaching government intervention. 
 When the president called on Ms. Ignagni unexpectedly at a White House meeting in March, she was quick to reassure him, ''You have our commitment to play, to contribute and to pass health reform this year.''
 But the talk has become increasingly unfriendly of late, as the president and Congress have latched onto the insurance industry's failings as a main reason for adopting their ambitious overhaul plans. 
 The president complains about insurers' profits; the 10 largest insurers earned $13 billion in 2007. And he also frequently refers to his mother's dispute with her insurer as she lay dying of cancer, contending that the best way to keep companies ''honest'' is to force them to compete against a government-run plan. 
 Even as she fends off industry criticism, Ms. Ignagni must try to preserve the current consensus over what changes insurers are willing to make. With the heat on, some companies seem open to further concessions -- while others may be tempted to walk away altogether. And while the attacks may bring them together, they could leave some insurers questioning the wisdom of her strategy. 
 The industry's biggest player, WellPoint, which operates Blue Cross plans in more than a dozen states and has 35 million members, may have the most to lose. Much of its profit come from selling coverage to individuals -- the part of the system potentially subject to the greatest upheaval. 
 The other big insurers, including the UnitedHealth Group, Aetna and Cigna, rely more on offering group coverage through employers and have a smaller share of the individual market, and so may be more willing to go along with whatever Congress devises. 
 Ms. Ignagni, who is among the better-paid lobbyists, earning $1.6 million in 2007, insists there is no risk of a rift among insurers. The companies say that they came to their current position after significant discussion, in contrast to the early 1990s, and that despite the current tenor of the debate, they ''intend to remain at the table,'' said Ronald A. Williams, Aetna's chief executive. 
 But Ms. Ignagni refuses to speculate on what the industry will eventually support, saying, ''It's still early.'' 
 A Democratic Senate staff member and then a union official earlier in her career, Ms. Ignagni has represented the interests of the insurers since 1993.
 Back then, insurers with the most to lose began a frontal assault against the health care changes proposed by the Clinton administration. One trade association ran a famous ad campaign featuring the fictional couple Harry and Louise voicing concerns about the dangers of government intervention. 
 Even then, Ms. Ignagni, who led a separate insurance group at the time, pursued a more conciliatory strategy. Her members, large health maintenance organizations, may have benefited from some changes being discussed. They ''were open to the concept of reform,'' Ms. Ignagni recalled, even if they opposed some specific proposals. 
 When the two insurance associations merged to form America's Health Insurance Plans in 2003, Ms. Ignagni -- and her nonconfrontational style -- won out.
 Over the last three years, she has been steadily laying the groundwork for industry consensus by meeting monthly with influential executives. She says they thrashed out the positions they now support, like not charging sick people higher premiums, even as they disagreed over how far-reaching those changes should be. 
 ''The industry right now is collectively pretty close to the same place -- there is a lot of cohesion,'' said George C. Halvorson, the chief executive of Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest nonprofit health plan.
 Ms. Ignagni's strategy also involved working closely with members of Congress, meeting privately with Senator Edward M. Kennedy's staff, for example, to try to hammer out the underpinnings of any reform efforts. Unfailingly polite and painstakingly prepared by staying up late to read every page of the proposed legislation she will testify about the next day, she has worked hard to present the industry as supportive of change -- as long as it doesn't go too far. 
 She emphasized Tuesday that there were no plans to alter tactics. The industry's recent ad campaign, introduced in July, says, ''Let's fix health care,'' and is notably silent on specific proposals it may seek to defeat. 
 Some skeptics, including Wendell Potter, a former Cigna executive who has become a vocal critic of the industry for putting profits first, contend that insurers' seeming consensus veils their opposition to real changes in the ways they do business.
 Mr. Potter described Ms. Ignagni's tactic of working with lawmakers as a ''charm offensive.''
 The proposal to create a government-run plan, which remains one of the main sources of division within Congress, could create the greatest rift among insurers. While the final House legislation seems almost certain to call for such a plan, it remains unclear what the Senate will decide. The Senate Finance Committee is favoring the creation of a different kind of competitor -- a health plan to be run by a nonprofit cooperative rather than the government. 
 If Congress and the president propose a government plan, and some insurers are willing to compromise, it could become ''the first fracture in the coalition'' of insurers, predicts Michael A. Turpin, a former senior executive for UnitedHealth and now a high-ranking official at USI Holdings, an insurance broker.
 WellPoint has broken ranks before. Two years ago, it reportedly spent about $2 million on advertising in California to help defeat Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's proposals to remake the state's insurance system.
 California's other insurers ''were much more willing to play,'' said Anthony Wright, a consumer advocate. WellPoint says it opposed California's proposal because it was flawed. ''It wasn't that we are against reform,'' said Bradley M. Fluegel, WellPoint's chief strategy officer. ''We didn't think it was actually going to work.'' 
 WellPoint says that, like the rest of the industry, it favors the changes the insurers have put forward and welcomes the prospect of tens of millions of additional customers. Some believe the question is whether Ms. Ignagni and the industry can afford not to go along. Health reform ''will always hang out over their heads,'' Mr. Turpin said. ''This is their last shot.'' 
 Articles in this series are analyzing the economic and financial issues at the heart of the health care debate in Washington. Previous articles in the series are available. nytimes.com/business 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Karen M. Ignagni, chief lobbyist for the health insurance industry, told President Obama, ''you have our commitment to play.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (94%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA'S HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



130 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: NBC Builds Anticipation for 10 P.M.

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
IN the weeks before a new television season, researchers for TV networks nervously work the phones, conducting surveys to gauge whether viewers are aware of a new show. By premiere week, 40 percent awareness is a good result.
 If shows lived or died by awareness, ''The Jay Leno Show'' would already be a hit. NBC's surveys show that close to 80 percent of the public is aware of Mr. Leno's coming 10 p.m. show.
 ''His awareness is extraordinarily high, as you might guess,'' said John Miller, the chief marketing officer for the NBC Universal Television Group. 
 For the next six weeks, NBC -- the fourth-place broadcast network -- will work to convert the aware to the anticipatory. Already a teaser Web site is providing fans with a 24-hour Web cam inside Mr. Leno's studio. Last weekend Mr. Leno started to show up on popcorn bags, soda cups and in on-screen advertisements at movie theaters. Later this month, an out-of-home advertising campaign will begin in major cities and include billboards and bus shelters. In early September, NBC will even adopt a portion of Interstate 10 in California to reiterate Mr. Leno's time slot.
 When Ben Silverman, the co-chairman of NBC Entertainment, announced last week that he was exiting, it was widely observed that the network's prime-time fate hinged in large part on the outcome of the decision to place Mr. Leno in prime time starting Sept. 14. ''It is a transformational moment in the history of broadcasting,'' Mr. Miller said, because it is the first move of a five-night-a-week show onto prime time's turf in decades. Mr. Leno and his formidable chin will be the new TV season's sun, around which the rest of prime time will orbit. 
 ''For us this is like, in effect, launching five shows,'' Adam Stotsky, the president of NBC Entertainment marketing, said in an interview. 
 The network declined to say what it was spending on outreach for ''The Jay Leno Show,'' but Mr. Miller acknowledged that it would not be fiscally equivalent to five shows. Just as NBC is saving in production costs by placing Mr. Leno at 10 p.m., it is saving promotional costs, too. Mr. Stotsky added, ''There are some economies of scale here.''
 Mr. Leno departed ''The Tonight Show'' in May, but he is still visible on TV. NBC has scheduled a short commercial for ''The Jay Leno Show'' every day at 10 p.m. since his sign-off. The network has created 30 to 40 original spots for the 10 p.m. time slot, Mr. Stotsky estimated.
 ''We don't really have to establish him as an entertainment franchise,'' said Mr. Stotsky, who referred more than once to Mr. Leno's two-decade history in late-night television. The network's strategic proposition for Mr. Leno's show is ''life needs more laughter,'' Mr. Stotsky said.
 ''Most people are dealing with daily pressures, day-to-day drudgery; the economy's got them down, or they may be tiring of the crime time that exists across the 10 o'clock landscape,'' Mr. Stotsky said. The comedy show ''will be the antidote.''
 Early ads for the show highlighted the crime shows that dominate the 10 p.m. hour and promised ''98 percent fewer murders'' on Mr. Leno's show. NBC will continue to push that message: Mr. Stotsky said it would be buying commercial time on cable channels that show procedural crime dramas next month.
 ''The advertisement will actually reference the environment in which it's airing,'' he said.
 NBC's promotional tactics for Mr. Leno involve infiltrating mundane activities and inserting Mr. Leno's mainstream humor. That's why the network made a push into movie theaters last weekend, most notably with a two-and-a-half minute segment on National CineMedia's advertisement reel that runs on 16,000 screens across the country.
 Later in the month, Mr. Leno's bits of comedy will also appear on airplanes, at gyms, in elevators and in New York City taxi cabs. ''These are moments that are just begging for a bit of laughter,'' Mr. Stotsky said. 
 Some of the short segments were written and taped specifically for the promotional campaign for the new program; Mr. Miller counted three separate recording sessions with Mr. Leno. Other segments have been mined from past episodes of ''The Tonight Show.''
 Along with the Interstate 10 stunt, NBC will also mark the 10th aisle of about 700 supermarkets in 12 American markets. 
 Mr. Miller and Mr. Stotsky also said they were excited about NBC's integration of McDonald's into ''The Jay Leno Show.'' The fast-food restaurant chain will be advertising its annual Monopoly game by hosting a ''$1 Million Dollar Dice Roll'' on NBC for four weeks beginning Oct. 6. On weeknights the prize drawing will occur during ''The Jay Leno Show.''
 Mr. Miller said the partnership would serve as a ''fabulous piece of continuity'' after the show's premiere because the program would be promoted at McDonald's stores. ''It's a great reminder,'' he said.
 With the awareness figures already so high, NBC now wants to improve its scores in the intent-to-view categories. According to the network, close to 25 percent of respondents say they will probably or definitely watch the comedy hour. Mr. Miller's goal is to move ''The Jay Leno Show'' closer to 30 percent in that category by September.
 ''Usually our major goal is creating awareness,'' Mr. Miller said. ''This time we have awareness. We have to drive this feverish intent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NBC is going all out to promote Jay Leno's new show, hoping his very familiar face will bring in viewers and make the show a ratings winner. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (96%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (79%); BEN SILVERMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



131 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: 2 Russian Submarines Off East Coast Of U.S. Evoke Echoes of Cold War

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A pair of nuclear-powered Russian attack submarines has been patrolling off the eastern seaboard of the United States in recent days, a rare mission that has raised concerns inside the Pentagon and intelligence agencies about a more assertive stance by the Russian military. 
 The episode has echoes of the cold war era, when the United States and the Soviet Union regularly parked submarines off each other's coasts to steal military secrets, track the movements of their underwater fleets -- and be poised for war. 
 But the collapse of the Soviet Union all but eliminated the ability of the Russian Navy to operate far from home ports, making the current submarine patrols thousands of miles from Russia more surprising for military officials and defense policy experts. 
 ''I don't think they've put two first-line nuclear subs off the U.S. coast in about 15 years,'' said Norman Polmar, a naval historian and submarine warfare expert. 
 The submarines are of the Akula class, a counterpart to the Los Angeles class attack subs of the United States Navy, and not one of the larger submarines that can launch intercontinental nuclear missiles.
 According to Defense Department officials, one of the Russian submarines remained in international waters on Tuesday about 200 miles off the coast of the United States. The location of the second remained unclear. One senior official said the second submarine traveled south in recent days toward Cuba, while another senior official with access to reports on the surveillance mission said it had sailed away in a northerly direction.
 The Pentagon and intelligence officials spoke anonymously to describe the effort to track the Russian submarines, which has not been publicly announced.
 President Obama spoke by telephone with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia on Tuesday, but it was not clear whether the subject of the submarines came up, although another source of friction between the two countries did. Mr. Medvedev called Mr. Obama to wish him a happy birthday and the White House said the president used the opportunity to urge Russia to work through diplomatic channels to resolve rising tensions with Georgia.
 The submarine patrols come as Moscow tries to shake off the embarrassment of the latest failed test of the Bulava missile, a long-range weapon that was test fired from a submarine in the Arctic on July 15. The failed missile test was the sixth since 2005, and some experts see Russia's assertiveness elsewhere as a gambit by the military to prove its continued relevance. 
 ''It's the military trying to demonstrate that they are still a player in Russian political and economic matters,'' Mr. Polmar said. 
 One of the submarines is the newer Akula II, officials said, which is quieter than the older variant and the most advanced in the Russian fleet. The Akula is capable of carrying torpedoes for attacking other submarines and surface vessels as well as missiles for striking targets on land and at sea.
 Defense Department officials declined to speculate on which weapons might be aboard the two submarines. 
 While the submarines have not taken any provocative action beyond their presence outside territorial waters of the United States, officials expressed wariness over the Kremlin's motivation for ordering such an unusual mission.
 ''Anytime the Russian Navy does something so out of the ordinary it is cause for worry,'' said a senior Defense Department official who has been monitoring reports on the submarines' activities.
 The official said the Navy was able to track the submarines as they made their way through international waters off the American coastline. This can be done from aircraft, ships, underwater sensors or other submarines.
 ''We've known where they were, and we're not concerned about our ability to track the subs,'' the official added. ''We're concerned just because they are there.''
 Once among the world's most powerful forces, the Russian Navy now has very few ships regularly deployed on the open seas. Moscow has contributed warships to the international armada searching for Somali pirates. In addition, a flotilla of Russian warships participated in exercises with Venezuela last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NAVIES (90%); COLD WAR (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (87%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); HISTORY (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) SOUTHEAST USA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ARCTIC (79%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



132 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: A New Test For Studios: The August Box Office

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Is G.I. Joe a movie star? Can Nora Ephron still cook? Will Quentin Tarantino save the Weinstein brothers (or vice versa)?
 These and other weighty questions -- weighty, at least, for folks around here -- are likely to be settled in the next few weeks as Hollywood heads into what promises to be an unusually nervous month at the box office.
 For some high-profile stars and filmmakers, and the studios behind them, August is beginning to look like a crucial test. 
 Typically, studios have treated late summer as a comfort zone into which they could ease their slightly more difficult films without fear of being crushed by the big fantasy and animated movies that dominate ticket sales through July, like this year's ''Transformers'' and ''Ice Age'' sequels. 
 Last year, for instance, Paramount Pictures and Sony Pictures squared off in August with a pair of R-rated comedies, ''Tropic Thunder'' and ''Pineapple Express.'' Each caught the expected late-season bounce from an audience that had already had its fill of PG-13 fun with ''Iron Man,''''The Dark Knight'' and ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.''
 That could still happen this year. But only if Hollywood can thread its way through some tricky releases, several of which, because of the generally weak entertainment economy, are carrying more weight than their backers might wish.
 The industry in general could use a boost. After an exceptionally strong start in the year's early months, the domestic box office has been down for the last four weeks. So far this year, overall revenue is up about 7 percent, and attendance has risen a little more than 3 percent, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office.
 Last weekend Universal's ''Funny People,'' a dramedy from the writer-director Judd Apatow, with Adam Sandler in the lead role, opened soft, with just $23.4 million at the domestic box office.
 That was Mr. Sandler's 11th-ranked opening weekend, even without accounting for ticket price inflation, which would drop ''Funny People'' another notch or two. Unless it shows unusual staying power, ''Funny People'' will join ''Bruno'' and ''Public Enemies'' on a growing roster of misses or modest successes that have put pressure on the studio's managers this summer. Universal appears to be lying low through August, with only ''A Perfect Getaway,'' a thriller from its recently sold Rogue Pictures unit, on its schedule.
 Over at Sony Pictures, next weekend brings a test for Ms. Ephron and her ''Julie & Julia,'' another comic drama, which stars Meryl Streep as the chef Julia Child and Amy Adams as her young emulator, Julie Powell. 
 Ms. Ephron knows her way around a kitchen: her books and film scripts have been working through food metaphors at least since ''Heartburn,'' the film version of which was directed by Mike Nichols and released in 1986. But Ms. Ephron has not directed since 2005, when her ''Bewitched'' came up short for Sony, and has not had a hit since ''You've Got Mail,'' which took in $116 million for Warner Brothers at the domestic box office in 1998.
 Sony, Hollywood's fifth-ranked studio in terms of market share, needs something to brag about. ''Angels & Demons'' was the last Sony release to top $100 million at the domestic box office, with about $134 million in ticket sales after its May release.
 But Sony has less on the line than the Weinstein Company, which in June hired Miller Buckfire, a financial consultant, to help restructure its debt, as about $500 million in obligations work their way toward maturity in 2014.
 Harvey and Bob Weinstein, the company's founders, are backing the Aug. 21 release of Mr. Tarantino's ''Inglourious Basterds,'' an exceptionally bloody World War II action film that stars Brad Pitt.
 An August flop would further dent Mr. Pitt: In June he watched a planned project unravel when Sony stopped production of his ''Moneyball,'' a baseball drama, citing concerns about the script and its director, Steven Soderbergh.
 For the Weinsteins, it is also about the future. To have resources for an Oscar push for their ''Nine,'' a musical due from the director Rob Marshall in November, they need more than Mr. Tarantino gave them with ''Grindhouse,'' which took in about $25 million at the domestic box office when the Weinsteins released it two years ago.
 Asked how important ''Inglourious Basterds'' was to the company, Tom Ortenberg, Weinstein's president of theatrical films, said in an e-mail message: ''All our projects are important to us.'' Mr. Ortenberg added that the company was confident the film would do well.
 For Paramount, what is most at stake in August may be pride. The studio is ranked second at the box office, just behind Warner Brothers, and had enormous hits with ''Star Trek'' and ''Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen.'' But Paramount has been fighting to ward off potential embarrassment foretold by online predictions that its ''G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra,'' from the director Stephen Sommers, will be dead on arrival next weekend.
 To counter the talk, Paramount several weeks ago took the unusual step of allowing an executive from OTX, a company that had test-screened the film, to publicly discuss what were described as favorable research results. Like the ''Transformers'' films, ''G.I. Joe'' is based on a Hasbro toy line. But it does not have the advantage of input from Steven Spielberg, who became an executive producer of the ''Transformers'' franchise before leaving Paramount in an embarrassingly public falling out between the studio and his DreamWorks team.
 Warner Brothers, having had an entirely expected summer hit with ''Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince,'' and an unexpected one with ''The Hangover,'' has devoted August to a pair of films from its New Line unit -- ''The Time Traveler's Wife'' and ''The Final Destination,'' a 3-D sequel -- along with ''Shorts,'' a family film from the director Robert Rodriguez. 
 20th Century Fox did well with ''X-Men Origins: Wolverine,''''Night at the Museum: Battle of the Smithsonian,'' and ''Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs,'' and this month has a comedy, ''Post Grad,'' directed by Vicky Jenson, best known for her work on the animated ''Shrek'' and ''Shark Tale.''
 At least a bit of pride is also on the line at Walt Disney. On Aug. 14 that company will learn whether even the attentions of John Lasseter, its animation star and creative director, can make a hit of his favorite filmmaker, the Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki. Disney is putting its muscle into the national release of Mr. Miyazaki's ''Ponyo,'' which includes the voices of Tina Fey, Matt Damon and Liam Neeson, among others, in the English-language version. 
 For that one, at least, the bar is relatively low. Mr. Miyazaki's last American release, ''Howl's Moving Castle,'' took in only about $4.7 million when Disney released it in 2005. That would be roughly what the studio's ''Up'' made in its first few hours -- back in the much breezier days of May.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eli Roth, left, and Brad Pitt in ''Inglourious Basterds.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANCOIS DUHAMEL/TWC)
A scene from ''Ponyo,'' directed by Hayao Miyazaki.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALT DISNEY)(pg. C1)
Channing Tatum, left, and Marlon Wayans in ''G.I. Joe.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRANK MASI/PARAMOUNT PICTURES)
 Funny ha ha: Adam Sandler in Judd Apatow's ''Funny People.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY TRACY BENNETT/UNIVERSAL PICTURES)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (89%); COMEDY FILMS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); MOVIE RATINGS (78%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); ANIMATION (73%); ANIMATED FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); INFLATION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

PERSON: ADAM SANDLER (78%); BOB WEINSTEIN (73%); MERYL STREEP (58%); BRAD PITT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



133 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 5, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Old Feuds Resurface in a Brooklyn Rezoning Fight

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has made a plan to create housing for half a million low- and moderate-income New Yorkers one of his signature initiatives, driving the rezoning of swaths of New York City to create what city planners call the largest municipal affordable housing plan in the nation. 
 But in one neighborhood, the rush to build affordable housing, which rarely attracts opposition, has done exactly that -- and the rush seems to be part of the problem: A coalition of community groups in Williamsburg say the city and its powerful allies have charged forward with a plan to rezone a 31-acre patch called the Broadway Triangle, ignoring vociferous protests about a planning process they called opaque.
 Many of the complaints stem from a decision by the Department of Housing Preservation and Development to grant early rights to develop city-owned sites in the Triangle to two nonprofit groups, the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, who represent part of the fast-growing Hasidic community, and the Ridgewood Bushwick Senior Citizens Council, without competitive bids -- a relatively rare but legal move. 
 The local community board passed the city's rezoning plan last month with conditions, including the stipulation that future decisions about city-owned property ''be carried out pursuant to a transparent, competitive'' process. Ward Dennis, chairman of the board's land-use committee, called the city's plan ''a good proposal but a bad process.''
 At a debate among City Council candidates last week, six of the seven people running to replace David Yassky in the 33rd District, which includes the Broadway Triangle, said they would vote against the project, though it is likely to come to a vote while Mr. Yassky, who supports the city's plans, is in office. Opponents said they were preparing a lawsuit to halt the plan. 
 The Brooklyn borough president will hold a public hearing on the plan on Wednesday afternoon. 
 The dispute reflects an often prideful fight for territory that has played out between competing factions -- often Hispanic and Hasidic groups -- in Williamsburg since the 1960s. 
 Even so, longtime neighborhood watchers call the latest installment particularly nasty, and perhaps needlessly so. Luis Garden Acosta, an opponent of the rezoning and the founder of El Puente, a local nonprofit group that provides services to Hispanics, said that in recent years, some of the old neighborhood rivalries had started to quiet: ''To be thrown so violently into the past is startling.'' 
 The players in the current drama have worked in Williamsburg and Bushwick for decades, and many of them were profiled in ''Bargaining for Brooklyn,'' a 2007 book by the sociologist Nicole P. Marwell that chronicles the role of community-based organizations in the lives of the poor. The groups revitalized devastated neighborhoods, cultivated loyal constituencies and frequently found themselves at odds.
 Dr. Marwell describes one, Los Sures, that started as an advocacy network for Puerto Rican and Dominican tenants and fought repeated battles over public housing with the United Jewish Organizations, known as U.J.O., in the 1970s. 
 In 1977, a federal judge approved a consent decree in which the New York City Housing Authority agreed to bolster the low number of Hispanic families living in public housing projects. Los Sures today is one of the groups in the Broadway Triangle coalition opposing the city's plan.
 Another key player, Ridgwood Bushwick, was founded by a young social worker named Vito J. Lopez, who had a knack for political organizing and a talent for finding public funds for his elderly clients. Mr. Lopez is now chairman of the State Assembly Committee on Housing and the Brooklyn Democratic Party chairman.
 The attempt to transform the Broadway Triangle, a blighted parcel at the border of Williamsburg, Bedford-Stuyvesant and Bushwick, has a history of mostly stalled and partial plans.
 It was declared an urban renewal area in 1989, when the city and Pfizer, which had a large pharmaceutical plant there, proposed an industrial park with hundreds of units of housing. Though some housing was built over the next decade, and several businesses started operating, the area remained defined mostly by its overgrown empty lots and its potential. Several years ago, another initiative proposed rezoning the area to residential and building about 1,000 units of affordable housing. 
 But soon, the fighting began. The details are hotly disputed, with the leaders of several groups saying that Mr. Lopez and U.J.O.'s director, Rabbi David Niederman, worked with the city to control the planning to ensure development privileges for their favored nonprofit groups. 
 In that version of events, the planning process was complicated by local rivalries and political sideshows, including Mr. Lopez's falling-out with his former chief of staff, Councilwoman Diana Reyna; and the competition between Satmar factions.
 But in interviews, Mr. Lopez and Rabbi Niederman both said that the rezoning process was inclusive, and that the complaints amounted to sour grapes from rival developers.
 ''It's absurd,'' said Mr. Lopez, who is regarded, even by his detractors, as one of the city's most prolific and successful advocates for affordable housing. ''Isn't it better that in a year or two this is 80 or 90 percent built, with the housing units given out by lottery, rather than having an empty, rat-filled lot?'' 
 Rabbi Niederman expressed a similar thought, saying, ''I believe at the end of the day, when families have housing, all of this jealousy will disappear.'' 
 But Rob Solano, executive director of Churches United for Fair Housing, part of a coalition that opposes the current rezoning plan, said the mistrust had built up because of closed-door planning meetings. 
 Mr. Solano said he and others asked city planners to slow down and consider alternatives, including a proposal to construct a high-rise building with roughly double the number of housing units in the city's plan. ''We were told, 'The mayor has set a timetable here, to end by this election,' '' he said. 
 Holly M. Leicht, a deputy commissioner with the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said that although she would have preferred that all the community groups had worked together, she had no regrets. 
 ''We've been meeting with the groups and taking their feedback the entire time,'' she said. ''At the end of the day, we think that the zoning proposal that we worked on for the last two-plus years is the right one for the district.'' 
 As to the question of a timetable, Ms. Leicht said, ''We certainly hoped it would be done by the end of the mayor's term.''
 U.J.O. and Ridgewood Bushwick were given letters in the last two years authorizing them to go after competitive state and federal financing sources to develop sites within the Broadway Triangle and on the area's border, according to city officials. 
 The so-called site authorization letters are typically given to 5 to 10 nonprofit developers a year and circumvent the more commonly used requests for proposal. They are seen by developers and city planners as both expedient and a way to augment city subsidies with outside money -- but there are no rules requiring public disclosure of the authorization letters.
 Of the 16 site authorization letters given to nonprofit groups since 2008, four letters went to U.J.O. or Ridgewood Bushwick for sites they proposed to develop, city officials said. 
 Michael Rochford, who heads another Williamsburg nonprofit developer, the St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation, said that despite trying for years, his group had never been able to get a site authorization letter from the city. He said it was still waiting for word on an application it filed more than two years ago to develop affordable housing in Greenpoint.
 In response, Ms. Leicht said that the applications submitted by his organization came after the city had committed to a ''request for proposal'' process. She added that the downturn of the city's economy had delayed development of many city-owned sites.
 As the pool of such sites shrinks, the Broadway Triangle was seen as one of the last large parcels of open land in the Williamsburg area. The bitterness in Williamsburg might simply reflect a temporary, desperate race, but after the vote at the community board meeting last month, the insults traded in the hallway had the feel of something deeper.
 ''I really don't think there are great differences in people's vision for the neighborhood,'' Mr. Yassky said. ''The politics are intruding.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The largely vacant, 31-acre Broadway Triangle, which the city wants to rezone for affordable housing. Below, from left: a scene from a community board meeting in Williamsburg
and two key players, State Assemblyman Vito J. Lopez
and Rabbi David Niederman. (pg.A13)
 Off Throop Street in the Broadway Triangle, one of the last large pieces of open land in the Williamsburg area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A16) MAP: Proposed Brooklyn Triangle Development Area (MAP BY THE NEW YORK TIMES/GOOGLEMAPS) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); ZONING (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CITIES (79%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); RELIGION (72%); HOME SECURITY (71%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); LITIGATION (69%); JEWS & JUDAISM (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2009



134 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: For Today's Graduate, Just One Word: Statistics

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Andrea Fuller contributed reporting.

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
At Harvard, Carrie Grimes majored in anthropology and archaeology and ventured to places like Honduras, where she studied Mayan settlement patterns by mapping where artifacts were found. But she was drawn to what she calls ''all the computer and math stuff'' that was part of the job. 
 ''People think of field archaeology as Indiana Jones, but much of what you really do is data analysis,'' she said.
 Now Ms. Grimes does a different kind of digging. She works at Google, where she uses statistical analysis of mounds of data to come up with ways to improve its search engine. 
 Ms. Grimes is an Internet-age statistician, one of many who are changing the image of the profession as a place for dronish number nerds. They are finding themselves increasingly in demand -- and even cool.
 ''I keep saying that the sexy job in the next 10 years will be statisticians,'' said Hal Varian, chief economist at Google. ''And I'm not kidding.''
 The rising stature of statisticians, who can earn $125,000 at top companies in their first year after getting a doctorate, is a byproduct of the recent explosion of digital data. In field after field, computing and the Web are creating new realms of data to explore -- sensor signals, surveillance tapes, social network chatter, public records and more. And the digital data surge only promises to accelerate, rising fivefold by 2012, according to a projection by IDC, a research firm.
 Yet data is merely the raw material of knowledge. ''We're rapidly entering a world where everything can be monitored and measured,'' said Erik Brynjolfsson, an economist and director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Center for Digital Business. ''But the big problem is going to be the ability of humans to use, analyze and make sense of the data.''
 The new breed of statisticians tackle that problem. They use powerful computers and sophisticated mathematical models to hunt for meaningful patterns and insights in vast troves of data. The applications are as diverse as improving Internet search and online advertising, culling gene sequencing information for cancer research and analyzing sensor and location data to optimize the handling of food shipments. 
 Even the recently ended Netflix contest, which offered $1 million to anyone who could significantly improve the company's movie recommendation system, was a battle waged with the weapons of modern statistics. 
 Though at the fore, statisticians are only a small part of an army of experts using modern statistical techniques for data analysis. Computing and numerical skills, experts say, matter far more than degrees. So the new data sleuths come from backgrounds like economics, computer science and mathematics. 
 They are certainly welcomed in the White House these days. ''Robust, unbiased data are the first step toward addressing our long-term economic needs and key policy priorities,'' Peter R. Orszag, director of the Office of Management and Budget, declared in a speech in May. Later that day, Mr. Orszag confessed in a blog entry that his talk on the importance of statistics was a subject ''near to my (admittedly wonkish) heart.''
 I.B.M., seeing an opportunity in data-hunting services, created a Business Analytics and Optimization Services group in April. The unit will tap the expertise of the more than 200 mathematicians, statisticians and other data analysts in its research labs -- but that number is not enough. I.B.M. plans to retrain or hire 4,000 more analysts across the company. 
 In another sign of the growing interest in the field, an estimated 6,400 people are attending the statistics profession's annual conference in Washington this week, up from around 5,400 in recent years, according to the American Statistical Association. The attendees, men and women, young and graying, looked much like any other crowd of tourists in the nation's capital. But their rapt exchanges were filled with talk of randomization, parameters, regressions and data clusters. The data surge is elevating a profession that traditionally tackled less visible and less lucrative work, like figuring out life expectancy rates for insurance companies.
 Ms. Grimes, 32, got her doctorate in statistics from Stanford in 2003 and joined Google later that year. She is now one of many statisticians in a group of 250 data analysts. She uses statistical modeling to help improve the company's search technology. 
 For example, Ms. Grimes worked on an algorithm to fine-tune Google's crawler software, which roams the Web to constantly update its search index. The model increased the chances that the crawler would scan frequently updated Web pages and make fewer trips to more static ones.
 The goal, Ms. Grimes explained, is to make tiny gains in the efficiency of computer and network use. ''Even an improvement of a percent or two can be huge, when you do things over the millions and billions of times we do things at Google,'' she said.
 It is the size of the data sets on the Web that opens new worlds of discovery. Traditionally, social sciences tracked people's behavior by interviewing or surveying them. ''But the Web provides this amazing resource for observing how millions of people interact,'' said Jon Kleinberg, a computer scientist and social networking researcher at Cornell.
 For example, in research just published, Mr. Kleinberg and two colleagues followed the flow of ideas across cyberspace. They tracked 1.6 million news sites and blogs during the 2008 presidential campaign, using algorithms that scanned for phrases associated with news topics like ''lipstick on a pig.'' 
 The Cornell researchers found that, generally, the traditional media leads and the blogs follow, typically by 2.5 hours. But a handful of blogs were quickest to quotes that later gained wide attention.
 The rich lode of Web data, experts warn, has its perils. Its sheer volume can easily overwhelm statistical models. Statisticians also caution that strong correlations of data do not necessarily prove a cause-and-effect link. 
 For example, in the late 1940s, before there was a polio vaccine, public health experts in America noted that polio cases increased in step with the consumption of ice cream and soft drinks, according to David Alan Grier, a historian and statistician at George Washington University. Eliminating such treats was even recommended as part of an anti-polio diet. It turned out that polio outbreaks were most common in the hot months of summer, when people naturally ate more ice cream, showing only an association, Mr. Grier said.
 If the data explosion magnifies longstanding issues in statistics, it also opens up new frontiers. 
 ''The key is to let computers do what they are good at, which is trawling these massive data sets for something that is mathematically odd,'' said Daniel Gruhl, an I.B.M. researcher whose recent work includes mining medical data to improve treatment. ''And that makes it easier for humans to do what they are good at -- explain those anomalies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A question: would 9 out of 10 statisticians wear this shirt? (pg.A1)
Books on data analysis were for sale at the Joint Statistical Meetings in Washington this week. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A3) GRAPHIC: DATA SLEUTHS IN AN INTERNET AGE: As computing and the Web have created reams of digital data to explore, statisticians have taken the spotlight. Companies like Google and I.B.M. now heavily recruit statisticians and other data-hunting professionals, who typically have strong skills in computing and mathematics, but varied academic backgrounds.
Carrie Grimes, 32: EDUCATION Bachelor's degree in anthropology and archaeology, Harvard University
Ph.D. in statistics, Stanford University CAREER She leads a research team at Google that uses statistical modeling to improve the speed and efficiency of the company's search technology.
Daniel Gruhl, 37: EDUCATION Bachelor's degree in computer science and electrical engineering, M.I.T.
Ph.D. in computer science with focus on artificial intelligence and text analytics, M.I.T. CAREER He is a research scientist at I.B.M. who uses computing and modeling to extract knowledge patterns from text, video and audio data.
Jon Kleinberg, 37: EDUCATION Bachelor's degree in computer science, Cornell
Ph.D. in computer science, M.I.T.
 a MacArthur Fellow. CAREER He is a professor of computer science at Cornell who mines huge data sets on the Web to explore social behavior. Recent work includes tracking the ''news cycle'' the rise, spread and decline of news stories and ideas. (Source: the individuals) (pg.A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (92%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (91%); STATISTICAL METHOD (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); MATHEMATICS (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (75%); SEARCH ENGINES (75%); ONCOLOGY (73%); GENOMICS (73%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (73%); MODELING & SIMULATION (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (70%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (69%); CANCER (64%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%); NETFLIX INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (51%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



135 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports Suggest Recession Nearing a Bottom

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Two big sectors of the United States economy were heading in opposite directions even as the recession showed signs of nearing a bottom, economic figures released Wednesday indicated. 
 Manufacturers demonstrated some strength in June, as orders and shipments for goods like metals, construction machinery, turbines and electrical equipment posted a surprising increase, according to a government report. But the country's service sector weakened in July as new orders sagged and employment conditions worsened, according to a private group's assessment. 
 The numbers showed that businesses were continuing to struggle, even if some were seeing a rebound in orders and an end to the economic free fall of the last nine months. The economy's contraction slowed to 1 percent in the second quarter, and many forecasters are expecting a rebound sometime this summer or later in the year.
 The Commerce Department reported that manufacturing orders rose 0.4 percent in June. That was a smaller increase than a 1.1 percent rise in May, but it topped forecasters' expectations of a monthly decline of 0.8 percent.
 But the country's persistent economic malaise was illustrated in the Institute for Supply Management's monthly index on business conditions in the service industry. The index fell to 46.4 in July from 47 in June, indicating that the rate of contraction accelerated from a month earlier. Any reading below 50 indicates the sector is shrinking.
 Business activity and production slowed down, new orders fell and backlogs of orders decreased, signaling weak demand. Construction companies, finance and insurance firms, utilities and wholesale traders were among the businesses to report that conditions were weakening. 
 ''The level of the overall index remains consistent with basically stagnant conditions,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, wrote in a research note. 
 ''While some further drift upward is possible, we do not expect this indicator to flash a sustained 'all-clear' signal anytime soon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orders to factories for manufactured goods have been a bright spot in a very uneven economy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ORDERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); INSURANCE (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



136 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: First and $97.5 Million

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
The buzz here Wednesday was that quarterback Eli Manning and the Giants had agreed to a six-year contract extension that would be among the richest deals in the N.F.L.
 Jerry Reese, the team's general manager, would not confirm that. But he did not deny it, either, and his mood could be sensed in the little smile that frequently flashed across his face.
 ''It's not done; we're hopeful,'' Reese said. ''And if it gets done, we'll be pleased with that. We don't have anybody's name on any contract right now.'' 
 A person with knowledge of the contract negotiations said Manning would get a six-year extension worth $97.5 million, with $35 million guaranteed. The person spoke anonymously because the deal had not been signed or announced.
 Manning was to be paid $9.4 million this season in the final year of a six-year contract he signed as a rookie in 2004. He led the Giants to a Super Bowl championship after the 2007 season and was the most valuable player in the title game, a victory over New England.
 He was unavailable for comment Wednesday, when the Giants' players attended meetings but did not practice. They will resume practice with two sessions Thursday.
 Although several reports suggested that Manning would be the highest-paid player in the N.F.L., it is difficult to ascertain such a rank because not all contract money is guaranteed. If the extension were to be prorated on a yearly basis and Manning played its entirety under its terms, his salary would be about $16.25 million a year.
 His brother Peyton, quarterback of the Indianapolis Colts, receives an average yearly salary of $14.17 million, currently the highest at that position.
 Earlier this year, defensive back Nnamdi Asomugha of the Oakland Raiders signed a three-year, $45.3 million contract that was described at the time as the league's richest deal. But that contract reportedly guarantees $28.5 million of the total. 
 Tom Condon, Eli Manning's agent, has been negotiating with the Giants intensely in recent days.
 On Sunday, when the Giants reported to camp, Manning said: ''They might be talking a little bit. Nothing's settled. I'm not that disappointed. I've still got a contract. I don't get caught up in that contract mess.''
 Reese said he did not expect a new deal for Manning to affect his performance or his attitude.
 ''He won't get more pressure than he already has in this market,'' Reese said. ''He knows how to handle pressure. He's done it before. I don't expect to see any difference in his attitude. He works hard. He expects a lot from himself.''
 When asked what his payroll for this season would be, Reese said: ''What's the cap? We don't save a lot of money. We give it all out.''
 The current salary cap is $128 million per team. If a new collective bargaining agreement is not signed between the league owners and the players union, next season could be played without a salary cap.
 Although the N.F.L. and some of its teams have laid off employees during the recession, a Giants spokesman said the team, which has about 120 full-time employees other than players, did not have any layoffs. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eli Manning is closing in on a six-year contract that will guarantee him $35 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BILL KOSTROUN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (53%) NORTHEAST USA (55%); INDIANA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



137 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 518 words

HEADLINE: China Sees Progress on Climate Accord, but Resists an Emissions Ceiling

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's envoy to global negotiations on climate change expressed optimism on Wednesday that a new agreement to reduce greenhouse gases would be reached this year, and he said that his nation's efforts to curb carbon pollution already had produced results that he called ''second to none.'' 
 But the envoy, Yu Qingtai, also underscored China's opposition to placing a ceiling on its emissions of greenhouse gases, a step that some experts have called crucial to efforts to slow global warming.
 China now emits more carbon dioxide than the United States, although it remains well behind when pollutants are measured on a per-person basis. Together, China and the United States account for about 40 percent of pollutants linked to climate change.
 In a briefing at China's Foreign Ministry, Mr. Yu presented a list of Chinese achievements in limiting carbon emissions, including claims that Beijing is the world's foremost user of nonpolluting hydropower and solar power, and fourth in wind power. By 2020, he said, 15 percent of China's energy will come from renewable sources.
 Mr. Yu also said the nation had made impressive strides in energy efficiency, reducing the amount of energy used per unit of gross domestic product by a tenth since 2005. The government has said it will achieve a total reduction of 20 percent by 2020, a goal Mr. Yu called ''a binding target.''
 Mr. Yu said he was hopeful that a comprehensive agreement to reduce greenhouse gases could be reached at a December meeting in Copenhagen, where nations will try to devise a successor to the protocol reached at a 1997 United Nations meeting in Kyoto, Japan. Part of that optimism, he said, stemmed from the fact that global climate problems are so fearsome that ''we cannot afford to fail.''
 ''Not a single country in the world will be able to stay out of trouble,'' he said. ''Not a single country can say that it can keep safe and intact from global warming. So the only way out is cooperation -- global cooperation.''
 Still, he repeated China's longstanding opposition to placing an absolute limit on its own emissions of greenhouse gases. Limiting China's development would hamstring efforts to raise its living standards closer to the level of the developed world, which Mr. Yu noted is largely responsible for climate change problems.
 Mr. Yu devoted much of his briefing to calls for the world's rich nations to take concrete steps toward reducing their pollutants instead of issuing what he suggested were empty pledges. China has proposed that the developed world commit to cutting its greenhouse gas emissions by 40 percent by 2020.
 ''The developed countries, in realizing their industrialization, have discharged a large amount of greenhouse gases in the course of one or two centuries,'' he said. ''The cumulative emissions by the developed countries have caused global warming. Who should take the historical responsibilities?''
 Mr. Yu also said that talks with the Obama administration on climate change issues had been ''quite fruitful'' and that China saw great potential for further progress in bilateral negotiations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); WIND ENERGY (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (72%); SOLAR ENERGY (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (89%); KINKI, JAPAN (53%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



138 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1801 words

PERSON: Budd Schulberg 

HEADLINE: Budd Schulberg, 'On the Waterfront' Writer, Dies at 95

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
Budd Schulberg, who wrote the award-winning screenplay for ''On the Waterfront'' and created a classic American archetype of naked ambition, Sammy Glick, in his novel ''What Makes Sammy Run?,'' died on Wednesday. He was 95 and lived in the Brookside section of Westhampton Beach, N.Y. 
 His death was confirmed by his wife, Betsy. 
 Mr. Schulberg also wrote journalism, short stories, novels and biographies. He collaborated with F. Scott Fitzgerald, arrested the Nazi filmmaker Leni Riefenstahl and named names before a Communist-hunting Congressional committee. But he was best known for writing some of the most famous lines in the history of the movies. 
 Some were delivered by Marlon Brando playing the longshoreman Terry Malloy in the 1954 film ''On the Waterfront.'' Malloy had lost a shot at a prizefighting title by taking a fall for easy money. 
 ''I coulda been a contender,'' Malloy tells his brother, Charley (Rod Steiger). ''I coulda been somebody. Instead of a bum, which is what I am.'' 
 It was Adam's fall in New York argot. Mr. Schulberg won the 1954 Oscar for best story and screenplay.
 Mr. Schulberg wrote about the power of Hollywood moguls, mob bosses and political ideologues to run roughshod over ordinary people -- longshoremen, boxers, even writers. It was the System against the little guy, a fixed fight in a world where ''the love of a lousy buck'' and a ''cushy job'' were ''more important than the love of man,'' in the words of Father Barry, the crusading priest in ''On the Waterfront'' played by Karl Malden, who died on July 1.
 ''It's the writer's responsibility to stand up against that power,'' Mr. Schulberg said in an interview with The New York Times in 2006, videotaped for posthumous showing on its Web site. ''The writers are really almost the only ones, except for very honest politicians, who can make any dent on that system. I tried to do that. And that's affected me my whole life.''
 The son of a movie mogul, Mr. Schulberg was twice ostracized by Hollywood and twice fought back with his typewriter. The first time came in 1941, with his first novel, ''What Makes Sammy Run?,'' a depiction of back-lot back stabbing. The story's antihero, Sammy Glick, a product of the Lower East Side, is a young man on the make who will lie, cheat and steal to achieve success, rising from newspaper copy boy to Hollywood boss on the strength of his cutthroat ambition. ''The spirit of Horatio Alger gone mad,'' Mr. Schulberg said.
 The book cut so close to the bone that Mr. Schulberg was warned that he would never work in the film industry again.
 The second time Mr. Schulberg faced professional ruin was when he appeared before the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1951 during its relentless investigation of the Communist Party's influence on the movie industry.
 Mr. Schulberg had gone to the Soviet Union in 1934 and joined the Communist Party of the United States after he returned to Hollywood. ''It didn't take a genius to tell you that something was vitally wrong with the country,'' he said in the 2006 interview, recalling his decision to join the party.
 ''The unemployment was all around us,'' he said. ''The bread lines and the apple sellers. I couldn't help comparing that with my own family's status, with my father; at one point he was making $11,000 a week. And I felt a shameful contrast between the haves and the have-nots very early.''
 His romance with Communism ended six years later, when he quit the party after feeling pressure to bend his writing to fit its doctrines. 
 Mr. Schulberg had been identified as a party member in testimony before the House committee. Called to testify, he publicly named eight other Hollywood figures as members, including the screenwriter Ring Lardner Jr. and the director Herbert Biberman. 
 They were two among the Hollywood 10 -- witnesses who said the First Amendment gave them the right to think as they pleased and keep their silence before the committee. All were blacklisted and convicted of contempt of Congress. Losing their livelihoods, Lardner served a year in prison and Biberman six months. 
 In the turmoil of the Red Scare, Mr. Schulberg's testimony was seen as a betrayal by many, an act of principle by others. The liberal consensus in Hollywood was that Lardner had acquitted himself more gracefully before the committee when asked if he had been a Communist: ''I could answer it, but if I did, I would hate myself in the morning.'' 
 In the 2006 interview, Mr. Schulberg said that in hindsight he believed that the attacks against real and imagined Communists in the United States were a greater threat to the country than the Communist Party itself. But he said he had named names because the party represented a real threat to freedom of speech. 
 ''They say that you testified against your friends, but once they supported the party against me, even though I did have some personal attachments, they were really no longer my friends,'' he said. ''And I felt that if they cared about real freedom of speech, they should have stood up for me when I was fighting the party.''
 After his testimony Mr. Schulberg came back with the story and screenplay for ''On the Waterfront.'' The idea grew out of a Pulitzer Prize-winning series of articles written for The New York Sun about the power of mob bosses on the New York docks. Mr. Schulberg did months of independent research. He befriended a crusading priest, the Rev. John M. Corridan, who fought for the dockworkers' cause and became a model for Father Barry. 
 The script, which won one of eight Oscars awarded to the film, bears echoes of Mr. Schulberg's own political struggle: the film's director, Elia Kazan, had also chosen to name names. 
 At one point Father Barry encourages the dockworkers to testify against the mob. In America, he says, there are ''ways of fighting back.''
 ''Getting the facts to the public,'' the priest continues. ''Testifying for what is right against what is wrong. What's ratting to them is telling the truth for you. Can't you see that?''
 Budd Wilson Schulberg was born on March 27, 1914, in New York. He grew up in Hollywood in the 1920s, surrounded by silent-movie stars. His father, B. P. Schulberg, rose to be chief of production at Paramount Studios; his mother, the former Adeline Jaffe, was a prominent literary agent. Budd attended Dartmouth and earned a Bachelor of Arts degree cum laude in 1936.
 He spent World War II making information and propaganda films for the War Department and the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, working with the Hollywood director John Ford. In Germany at the war's end, he helped put together filmed evidence against the Nazis for the Nuremberg trials. To help in the editing, he tracked down Leni Riefenstahl, who had made powerful propaganda films for Hitler. Dressed in his military uniform and with a warrant in his pocket, he drove to her Bavarian chalet and returned with her to Nuremberg in an open-air military vehicle. 
 Mr. Schulberg published a gritty second novel, ''The Harder They Fall,'' in 1947. One of the first realistic examinations of professional boxing, based partly on the career of Primo Carnera, a heavyweight champion managed by a gangster, the book stood for many years as a model for other novels, plays and films about the amoral world of the ring. His 1950 novel, ''The Disenchanted,'' grew out of his attempt 12 years earlier to collaborate on a screenplay with F. Scott Fitzgerald, then in a long alcoholic tailspin. Mr. Schulberg, who was 24 at the time, had turned in a mediocre first draft for a film to be set at Dartmouth, called ''Winter Carnival.'' The producer, Walter Wanger, told him a second writer would be assigned to help him knock out the script.
 ''I wasn't too happy about it,'' Mr. Schulberg remembered. ''I said, 'Who's the writer?' He said, 'F. Scott Fitzgerald.'
 ''I thought it was just a joke, like saying 'Leo Tolstoy,' '' Mr. Schulberg recalled. ''And I said, 'Scott Fitzgerald -- isn't he dead?' And he said, 'No, he's not dead, he's right in the next room reading your script.' ''
 The effort ended after Fitzgerald went on a bender in New Hampshire with Mr. Schulberg, who turned the disastrous experience into ''The Disenchanted.'' (The novel was later transformed into a play, which had its Broadway debut in 1958 and brought Jason Robards a best-actor Tony Award.) After their joint success with ''On the Waterfront,'' Mr. Schulberg wrote and Mr. Kazan directed ''A Face in the Crowd'' (1957), one of the first films to weigh the political clout of television. Based on a Schulberg short story, the film depicts the transformation of a country singer, played by Andy Griffith, from power-drunk star into populist demagogue. 
 Mr. Schulberg wrote ceaselessly, writing for television, publishing journalism and releasing books. He remained convinced that writing could help create a measure of social justice. In 1965 he founded the Douglass House Watts Writers Workshop in Los Angeles with the goal of encouraging black teenagers to write. He also founded the Frederick Douglass Creative Arts Center in New York in 1971.
 Mr. Schulberg's 1936 marriage to Virginia Ray ended in divorce in 1942. His 1943 marriage to Victoria Anderson ended in divorce in 1964. His third wife, the actress Geraldine Brooks, died in 1977. In 1979 he married the actress and writer Betsy Ann Langman.
 He is survived by a daughter, Victoria Kingsland, from his first marriage; a son, Stephen, from his second marriage; a son and daughter, Benjamin and Jessica, from his fourth marriage; and two grandchildren. Another son from his second marriage, David, died in 2005.
 Mr. Schulberg never stopped working. Last year he was in Scotland, at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, for a new adaptation of his stage version of ''On the Waterfront''; he and Stan Silverman had first adapted it for the stage in 1995, when it had its Broadway debut, to weak reviews. 
 In 2001 Mr. Schulberg began collaborating with the director Spike Lee on a screenplay about the heavyweight title fights between Joe Louis, the black American champion, and Max Schmeling, the German boxer, each man serving as a reluctant symbol for two nations soon to go to war. 
 For Mr. Schulberg, the story, as yet unproduced, yielded vividly dramatic possibilities but also an opportunity to consider social issues involving race, sports and national identity. It was his kind of story.
 ''I'd like to be remembered as someone who used their ability as a novelist or as a dramatist to say the things he felt needed to be said about the society'' while being ''as entertaining as possible,'' he said in the 2006 interview.
 ''Because if you don't'' entertain, he said, ''nobody's listening.''

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Thursday about the screenwriter Budd Schulberg omitted a survivor, his sister, Sonia O'Sullivan. The obituary also misstated part of his given name. It was Seymour Wilson Schulberg; Budd was derived from a family nickname. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Budd Schulberg, a writer of screenplays and novels, in Quogue, on Long Island, in 1972. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEYER LIEBOWITZ/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Marlon Brando, left, Thomas Handley and Eva Marie Saint in ''On the Waterfront,'' (1954) written by Mr. Schulberg. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOVIE STILL ARCHIVES)
 Mr. Schulberg testifying about the Communist Party at the House Un-American Activities Committee in 1951. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); FILM (90%); WRITERS (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); JOURNALISM (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); ORGANIZED CRIME (70%); VISUAL ARTISTS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

CATEGORY: Books and Magazines, Motion Pictures

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



139 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Weighs Future of Housing Giants, Overseer Is Leaving

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG; Stephen Labaton contributed reporting.

 BODY:
James B. Lockhart III, the director of the federal agency that controls Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, said Wednesday that he was stepping down at the end of the month, as the government weighs options for the future of the two giants. 
 Whoever takes Mr. Lockhart's seat at the Federal Housing Finance Agency will confront the difficult task of helping Fannie and Freddie re-emerge from the government takeover. 
 The administration is currently considering multiple options for the two, including dividing each into ''good'' companies, which would hold those mortgages with continued value, and ''bad'' firms, which would most likely be backed or owned by the government and would contain the troubled mortgages.
 An administration official confirmed those discussions, and said that officials are weighing various options for the firms -- known as government-sponsored enterprises, or G.S.E.'s.
 ''It should come as no surprise that the administration is thinking through G.S.E. reform, a commitment we made to Congress in the regulatory reform white paper. But we are in the preliminary stage of the process, the systematic development of options has not taken place and no decisions have been made,'' said that official, who was not authorized to be quoted.
 That official added that the other options include returning the companies to their previous states, winding them down and liquidating assets, and incorporating them into a federal agency.
 The firms, which own or guarantee more than half of the nation's mortgages, are primary lubricants in the housing economy.
 Mr. Lockhart has led the agency for more than three years, serving as the primary regulator for Fannie, Freddie and the Federal Home Loan Banks as the housing market skyrocketed and then cratered. He sparred with the government-sponsored enterprises over business practices -- and ultimately took them over at the peak of the crisis last year.
 ''I had really two goals when I took this position,'' Mr. Lockhart said. ''To get these companies fixed, and to get legislation. I was a little frustrated that both took longer than they needed to, and then the housing market started falling apart.''
 A successor has not yet been chosen, although an announcement on an interim director is expected soon, most likely from within the agency. ''It's been a tough three years,'' Mr. Lockhart said in an interview. 
 The agency -- known as the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight when he became director -- has been remade through legislation while he served, giving his office new powers. 
 Mr. Lockhart said he told the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, of his plans to leave about three months ago. Mr. Lockhart was appointed by President George W. Bush, with whom he was close after they attended the same high school, college and graduate program. Though there have occasionally been tensions between Mr. Lockhart and Treasury officials, high-ranking figures in both parties had urged him to stay on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James Lockhart, overseer of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, says ''It's been a tough three years.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS BRACK/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



140 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: To Fight Cancer, Know the Enemy

BYLINE: By JAMES D. WATSON. 
James D. Watson, a winner of the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, is the chancellor emeritus of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.

 BODY:
Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
 THE National Cancer Institute, which has overseen American efforts on researching and combating cancers since 1971, should take on an ambitious new goal for the next decade: the development of new drugs that will provide lifelong cures for many, if not all, major cancers. Beating cancer now is a realistic ambition because, at long last, we largely know its true genetic and chemical characteristics.
This was not the case when President Richard Nixon and Congress declared a ''war on cancer'' more than 35 years ago. As a member of the new National Cancer Advisory Board, I argued that money for ''pure cancer research'' would be a more prudent expenditure of federal funds than creating new clinical cancer centers. My words, however, fell on deaf ears, and the institute took on a clinical mission. My reward for openly disagreeing was being kicked off the advisory board after only two years. 
 While overall cancer death rates in the United States began to decrease slowly in the 1990s, cancer continues to take an appalling toll, claiming nearly 560,000 lives in 2006, some 200,000 more fatalities than in the year before the War on Cancer began. Any claim that we are still ''at war'' elicits painful sarcasm. Hardly anyone I know works on Sunday or even much on Saturday, as almost no one believes that his or her current work will soon lead to a big cure. 
 A comprehensive overview of how cancer works did not begin to emerge until about 2000, with more extensive details about specific cancers beginning to pour forth only after the 2003 completion of the Human Genome Project (a breathtaking achievement that the Italian-born virologist and Nobel laureate Renato Dulbecco foresaw in 1985 as a necessary prerequisite for a deep understanding of cancer). We shall soon know all the genetic changes that underlie the major cancers that plague us. We already know most, if not all, of the major pathways through which cancer-inducing signals move through cells. Some 20 signal-blocking drugs are now in clinical testing after first being shown to block cancer in mice. A few, such as Herceptin and Tarceva, have Food and Drug Administration approval and are in widespread use. 
 Unfortunately, virtually none of these new drugs leads to a lifelong cure. In most instances, they can offer only modest extensions in survival time. This is partly because there are often many types of cancer-causing genetic ''drivers'' within single cancer cells. While getting a DNA diagnosis for the drivers of every individual cancer would help us to prescribe more specific regimens of chemotherapy, given the inherent genetic instability of most cancer cells, the use of drugs acting against single drivers would all too soon lead to the emergence of genetic variants driven by increasingly destructive second, if not third, drivers. 
 Most anticancer drugs, then, will probably never reach their full potential unless they are given in combination with other drugs developed against second or even third drivers. Yet current F.D.A. regulations effectively prohibit testing in combination new drugs that, when given alone, have proved ineffective. 
 While targeted combination chemotherapies would be a big step forward, I fear we still do not yet have in hand the ''miracle drugs'' that acting alone or in combination would stop most metastatic cancer cells in their tracks. To develop them, we may have to turn our main research focus away from decoding the genetic instructions behind cancer and toward understanding the chemical reactions within cancer cells. 
 The idea that cancer cells may be united in having a common set of molecules not found in most other cells of our bodies was first proposed by the great German biochemist Otto Warburg. In 1924, he observed that all cancer cells, irrespective of whether they were growing in the presence or absence of oxygen, produce large amounts of lactic acid. Yet it wasn't until a year ago that the meaning of Warburg's discovery was revealed: The metabolism of cancer cells, and indeed of all proliferating cells, is largely directed toward the synthesis of cellular building blocks from the breakdown products of glucose. To make this glucose breakdown run even faster in growing cells than in differentiated cells (that is, cells that have stopped growing and taken on their specialized functions in the body), the growth-promoting signal molecules turn up the levels of the ''transporter'' proteins that move glucose molecules into cells. 
 This discovery indicates that we need bold new efforts to see if drugs that specifically inhibit the key enzymes involved in this glucose breakdown have anti-cancer activity. In the late 1940s, when I was working toward my doctorate, the top dogs of biology were its biochemists, who were trying to discover how the intermediary molecules of metabolism were made and broken down. 
 After my colleagues and I discovered the double helix of DNA, biology's top dogs then became its molecular biologists, whose primary role was finding out how the information encoded by DNA sequences was used to make the nucleic acid and protein components of cells. Clever biochemists must again come to the fore to help us understand the cancer cell chemically as well as we do genetically. 
 While the major pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporations have the financial means to exploit their most promising drug candidates, that is not true of many of the smaller biotechnology companies that are doing highly innovative work. Their financing from venture-capital firms has drastically dwindled in this recession. The National Cancer Institute should come to their rescue, providing funds that will let their products move through animal testing to the exploratory phases of clinical testing in humans. 
 At the same time, the institute should provide much more money to major research-oriented cancer centers to let them take on the low probability-high payoff projects that pharmaceutical giants and, increasingly now, the big biotech companies almost reflexively turn down.
 Restarting the War on Cancer has to start at the top: in 1971, Congress decided that the president, not the head of the National Institutes of Health, should appoint the director of the National Cancer Institute. Yet like all too many outposts of the White House, the institute has become a largely rudderless ship in dire need of a bold captain who will settle only for total victory. President Obama must choose strong new leadership for the institute from among our nation's best cancer researchers; it also needs a seasoned developer of new pharmaceuticals who can radically speed up the pace at which anticancer drugs are developed and clinically tested. 
 I expect that my views will provoke rebuttals from prominent scientists who feel that it's not yet the time to go all out against cancer, and that until victory is more certain we should not further tap our limited coffers for more big-cancer money. While they are right that victory will not come from money alone, neither will it come from biding our time. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANCER (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (89%); CANCER DRUGS (89%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (89%); ONCOLOGY (78%); CARCINOGENS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (77%); DNA (76%); GENOMICS (76%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); VIROLOGY (73%); RODENTS (73%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (67%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%); US FDA APPROVALS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE (84%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



141 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Repairman's Advantage: Even in Hard Times, Things Need To Be Fixed

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS

 BODY:
While construction workers have been hit hard by the recession, the people who make sure existing homes run smoothly -- plumbers, electricians and the like -- say they are still finding work, albeit not as much as in the good times.
 ''I've probably dropped about 20 to 30 percent over recent years,'' said Cliff Brookes, who runs a plumbing business in Haddonfield, N.J. ''I'd say 75 percent of my business these days is repair or crisis work, but I guess that is O.K. People are still fixing things when the lines clog up or three of the four toilets in the house are stopped up. Plumbers are lucky because people at least have things that need to be fixed all the time.'' 
 While not recession-proof, small-business contractors, electricians, plumbers and even car repair shops seem to be weathering the latest economic downturn somewhat better than other businesses. It may not be time for an employed repairman to strike out on his own, but those already established in business are finding ways to keep afloat.
 ''We've made sure we have done the right things to show customers we were reliable,'' said Kimberly Williams, the office manager for Integrity Electric, a six-employee business in San Rafael, Calif. Ms. Williams said Integrity had made sure its certifications and memberships in business and craft associations were up-to-date. It renegotiated its rates in the Yellow Pages and has worked to make its name pop up as early as possible in online searches in Google, Yelp and other services. She said the company spent $26,000 in advertising last year, but would cut back considerably now, with small work coming in with regularity.
 ''We were just big enough and I think smaller shops just had to go out of business when the commercial work slowed down,'' she said. ''I think we are only $500 a month slower than before, and with the savings in advertising, we are really about even. We're happy with that in a recession.''
 Eustace Kangaju, director of Temple University's Small Business Development Center in Philadelphia, said that during recessions, commercial building stops abruptly, which mostly affects large contractors and individual crafts people. Smaller contractors, though, tend not to have that work to begin with, he said. 
 ''Small construction-type businesses may lose house-building or large renovation jobs, but there is still a lot of fixing and repairing to do,'' Mr. Kangaju said. ''I would say city businesses are better off than suburban ones in this kind of economy. Philadelphia, for instance, has older housing stock and things need repairing all the time. Not only are they not building many houses in the suburbs right now, but those that are there are newer and probably in less need of repairs.''
 Mr. Kangaju said his informal survey found there was actually an upsurge in small-contractor activity in the late spring and early summer, which he attributed to people getting tax refund checks and deciding to get those little annoying things fixed. In any case, he said, if contractors are not greedy and are willing to take those smaller jobs, they can probably weather the remainder of the recession.
 That is what Stephen Tomiselli Jr. said he had found. He and his father went into a general contracting business in Philadelphia about five years ago when he got out of school and his father decided to go out on his own after a career as a union electrician.
 ''We're still doing pretty well. Oh, people aren't doing the $50,000 bathroom, but we've found people are still wanting to upgrade,'' said Mr. Tomiselli, who employs five other workmen besides himself and his father. ''Maybe the economy isn't as horrible as they say, but then we work in the city and are comfortable taking little jobs. Maybe if you only do big work, you're hurting.''
 Mr. Brookes, the plumber, said his business normally relied on what customers may see as emergencies anyway. So in down times, he is not as likely as the bigger contractors to have a big drop in work.
 ''People might want to bandage things instead of doing a full repair and replacement, but at least they want me to come in and do something,'' he said. ''So while it isn't the greatest right now, I am surviving.'' 
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics National Compensation Survey for 2007, the latest year on record, electricians make an average of $23.26 an hour, plumbers $23.92 an hour, and automotive repair and maintenance workers get $18.52 an hour. Those in the auto repair business, Mr. Kangaju of Temple said, are holding up pretty well during the recession. For one thing, much major auto-body work is covered by insurance, which means it is somewhat insulated from business cycles. Further, as fewer people buy new cars, the age of the cars on the road has risen along with the need for maintenance work, if not repairs.
 AAA figures show 30 million roadside assistance calls last year, about the same as in 2007. According to the research firm R. L. Polk, the average car in the United States was 9.2 years old in 2007, while the average truck was 7.3 years old, both records. And a survey by the Automotive Service Association showed that 76 percent of repair shop owners expected more work.
 ''So far, we haven't been affected by anything,'' said Thomas W. Marks, owner of Magnolia Auto Body in the southern New Jersey working-class town of Magnolia. ''Business is good. People are still getting into accidents. Strangely, we are getting more work on sunny days. I think maybe people are daydreaming, or just in a rush to get to work so as not to lose their jobs. It's a shame, maybe, that that is good for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CLIFF BROOKES: People skilled in the trades, like Mr. Brooks, a plumber in Haddonfield, N.J., are holding their own in the recession.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PLUMBING & HVAC CONTRACTORS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); YELLOW PAGES ADVERTISING (76%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); SMALL BUSINESS CONTRACTING (73%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (68%); SUBURBS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (53%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



142 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 S. KOREAN POLICE TRY AGAIN
To Evict Factory Workers
 South Korean police commandos stormed a car factory to evict hundreds of workers who seized the plant more than two months ago to protest layoffs. PAGE A6 
 CHINA'S PROGRESS ON CLIMATE
 China's envoy to global negotiations on climate change expressed optimism that a new agreement to reduce greenhouse gases would be reached this year. PAGE A8
 EFFORTS FOR NORMALCY IN IRAQ
 The Iraqi government is pushing plans to make the nation feel more normal, including the removal within 40 days of most concrete road barriers in Baghdad. PAGE A10
 National
 EX-LAWMAKER IS CONVICTED
 In Bribery Scheme
 Former Representative William J. Jefferson was convicted of using his office to try to enrich himself and relatives through a web of bribes and payoffs involving business ventures in Africa. PAGE A14
 DOUBTS ON SPINE PROCEDURE
 Two new studies cast serious doubt on vertebroplasty, a widely used and expensive treatment for painful fractures in the spine. PAGE A18
 New York
 TENANTS' RENT WOES 
 Caused by Computer Error
 New York City's public housing agency overcharged hundreds of welfare families because of a rent calculation error and threatened them with eviction for failing to pay the higher amount. PAGE A24
 Business
 $2 MILLION IN GRANTS 
 To Bolster Electric Cars
 Seeking to put the nation back in the lead on an important technology, the Obama administration awarded more than $2 billion in grants for advanced battery manufacturing, mostly for electric cars. PAGE B5
 SCAMS TAKE AIM AT JOBLESS
 With unemployment high and rising, more people are streaming onto the Web in search of jobs -- but running into costly schemes. PAGE B6
 Sports
 ELI MANNING AND GIANTS
 Said to Agree on Extension
 The buzz was that quarterback Eli Manning and the Giants had agreed to a six-year contract extension that would be among the richest deals in the N.F.L. PAGE B11
 Arts
 ABDUL WALKS OFF
 Television's Biggest Stage
 With the production companies of ''American Idol'' not budging on a significant raise for Paula Abdul, she would rather walk away from the biggest stage on television after eight years. PAGE C1
 CONDUCTOR'S NEW YORK DEBUT
 If the fast-rising conductor Yannick Nezet-Seguin was at all nervous about making his New York debut with the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra at Avery Fisher Hall, he did not show it. PAGE C1
 Home
 COTTAGE FLOWERS
 Grown From Concrete
 Beauty is more powerful when it's unexpected, like the sunflowers that tower over the graffiti on a warehouse wall in Brooklyn. PAGE D1
 Styles
 THE SECRET IS OUT:
 We Can See Your Feet
 When it comes to skin, our feet are rarely treated with the same tender loving care as our faces. And summer footwear increases the opportunities to feel foot shame. PAGE E1
 Our Children, the Rude Guests E2
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A29
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A29

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (77%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); BATTERY MFG (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); ATHLETES (68%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); PUBLIC HOUSING (67%); FAMILY (66%); REALITY TELEVISION (61%); FESTIVALS (61%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); WILLIAM J JEFFERSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (77%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



143 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATEHOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: In Arizona, Republicans Rule All but the Budget

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
In theory, Republicans in Arizona should be the happiest Republicans in the nation. Democrats failed in their insurgent bid last November to flip the Legislature -- even as Democrats in other states succeeded -- and the governor's office is now occupied by a Republican on a fluke when Gov. Janet Napolitano, a Democrat, left town for the Obama administration. 
 But hard fiscal realities can put a strain on any marriage, and the new governor, Jan Brewer, is finding that life with the Legislature and a $3.4 billion budget deficit is several feathers shy of paradise. 
 Republican lawmakers have insulted the governor in the local news media and rejected her budget proposals, and on Tuesday some even refused to vote on her latest budget. The governor's plan includes tax increases for shoppers, cuts in the personal income tax and the corporate tax, and sharp reductions in state spending. 
 At the center of the conflict is the governor's proposalthat the state dig out of its shortfall -- equal to a third of Arizona's operating budget -- with a 1 cent sales tax increase, to be put before voters on the November ballot. 
 This request enraged Republican lawmakers, whose leaders have been unable to reach a budget deal with Ms. Brewer. She vetoed most of the bills in an earlier budget package, saying the cuts were too injurious to the poor. (The Democratic minority in the Legislature remains disenchanted with all of the budget proposals.)
 The House passed a budget largely in line with the governor's request, but the plan has stalled in the Senate, where four crucial lawmakers have refused to go along. One of them, Senator Carolyn S. Allen of Scottsdale, said she disliked the cut in the income and corporate tax that was negotiated by her fellow Republicans in the House in exchange for the sales tax increase.
 ''I think the governor has made a drastic error in judgment,'' Ms. Allen said in a telephone interview. ''I like her, but I think she is too desperate.''
 On Tuesday, Senator Pamela Gorman resigned as majority whip, saying in an e-mail message to the Senate president, Robert Burns, that the tax battle was ''taking on a life of its own that is not healthy for our caucus, nor our party.'' 
 The entire budget process has been two parts pain and one part folly, including a moment in June when lawmakers, facing a midnight deadline, tried to metaphysically halt the fiscal year by taking the clock down from the Senate wall. They are also considering mortgaging the state Capitol as well as a historically significant limestone cave system owned by the state.
 Ms. Brewer's reputation as a conservative has been damaged by her proposal to raise the sales tax, and some of her colleagues in the party, which is dominated by conservatives, have whispered about challenging her in the 2010 Republican primary. 
 ''The economic downturn has created a very difficult scenario for any elected official who is a fiscal conservative,'' Paul Senseman, Ms. Brewer's director of communications, said in an interview.
 Arizona finds itself in a worst-case scenario among states that have been hammered by the foreclosure crisis. One of the fastest-growing areas in the country for years, the state has seen its population -- and needs -- explode over the last decade, and development has more than helped cover the costs.
 The state's principal revenue source is its 5.5 percent sales tax (with city tax added on, the average tax is about 9 percent), followed by the personal income tax and the corporate tax. Counties and school districts collect property taxes.
 With the number of new building permits plummeting, revenues from the big-ticket items associated with new homes, which had fueled much of the state's budget in recent years, also fell. 
 As secretary of state, Ms. Brewer was first in line to take over when Ms. Napolitano left to become homeland security secretary in January. Ten days after her ascension, Ms. Brewer had to face her first budget crisis, and she made it clear that big cuts to schools and health care were not going to fly, and that she thought the state would need to raise the sales tax. 
 Thinking they could avoid a governor's veto of their plan, which had deep cuts, by running out the clock, Republicans wrangled over the budget for the 2010 fiscal year until the last minute. But the governor vetoed most parts of the budget except those needed to keep the state running, and then called legislators back for a special summer session to clean up the rest. 
 Ms. Brewer has found no succor among Democrats, whom she largely edged out of budget negotiations in the spring. They, too, are upset about her proposed cut to personal and corporate taxes, which they say will wipe out almost all the money gained with a three-year sales tax increase. Democrats say they are baffled by the inability of the majority party to make a deal with the Republican governor. 
 ''They have shown complete and total failure to govern,'' said Representative Kyrsten Sinema, a Democrat and the assistant leader of the party's caucus in the House. ''They have had seven months, and they can't get this done.''
 If any of this spells trouble for the Republicans, their leaders are not saying so. ''That just speaks to how diverse our state party is,'' said Matt Roberts, a spokesman for the Arizona Republican Party.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, a Republican, finds herself locked in conflict with a Legislature dominated by fellow Republicans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
One plan being considered by some Arizona lawmakers to close a $3.4 billion budget gap would mortgage the Capitol.(pg. A14)
 Shoppers like these in downtown Phoenix may face an increase in the state sales tax.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNORS (92%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); SALES TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCREASES (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); VETO (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); INCOME TAX (53%)

PERSON: JAN BREWER (89%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (58%) ARIZONA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



144 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Online Scammers Target the Jobless

BYLINE: By RIVA RICHMOND

 BODY:
When Claude Vera responded to the customer-service job opening he saw on the online-classified site Geebo.com back in February, it seemed like one of a hundred small acts that might get him back to work. Most of his e-mail messages to prospective employers were going unanswered, so he was relieved when Penguin Express Inc. replied the next day with a work-from-home job.
 To help him get a home office started, Penguin sent him money orders so he could buy, via money wire, the requisite laptop and other equipment from several different people. Mr. Vera, of Jamaica, New York, deposited nine United States Postal Service money orders into his Chase bank account and wired a total of nearly $8,000 to the various vendors. But he never received a laptop or anything else, and the money orders turned out to be already cashed or counterfeit. The scam consumed Mr. Vera's tax refund and put him in the red by $6,700 to Chase, which sent his case to a collection agent. 
 ''Looking back at the whole thing I was very, very naive, but I needed a job so bad,'' he says. ''I'm behind in everything. I'm behind in my rent. I'm behind in all the bills I'm responsible for. It has wiped me out financially.''
 With unemployment high and rising, more people are streaming onto the Web in search of jobs -- but running into costly scams. Like job seekers, criminals are after moneymaking opportunities online. And they're setting increasingly sophisticated traps to prey on the desperation of the jobless, whose guards are down amid eroding savings, swelling debts and calamities like foreclosure and bankruptcy. Victims can ill afford another financial setback. ''If you are a con artist, having more people out of work to deal with increases your odds of finding a victim,'' says Pam Dixon, executive director of the World Privacy Forum. ''They are thriving right now. If business weren't good for the scammers, we wouldn't be getting so many complaints.''
 Spam filters provide some protection, and job boards work hard to remove bogus offers from large pools of legitimate offers. But none of the technology is foolproof. Job seekers have to keep their wits about them, no matter how much they need a job.
 ''The bottom line is if anything seems weird, just don't apply,'' says Tabatha Marshall, founder of PhishBucket.org, a non-profit that tracks online job scams and estimates they're up a third from a year ago. ''You're going to take yourself down a road where you could lose money or time.''
 Here are some of the more common scams and tips for avoiding them:
 Common Frauds
 HELP FOR A FEE Watch out for fake recruiters and charlatans who promise to train you for a lucrative new career. A well-known scam of the latter type is Google Treasure Chest, which offers people a cheap DVD that will teach them how to prosper placing Google ads.
 But in the small print of the buyer's agreement is notice of a $72.21 monthly charge. Stopping the charges proves difficult; some people claim to have gotten relief only by changing their credit card numbers. Google Treasure Chest did not reply to requests for comment.
 FISHING FOR IDENTITY DATA Ads for attractive white-collar jobs can be, in fact, sophisticated fraud schemes.
 Applicants may be steered to an authentic-looking corporate Web site, where they are asked to type personal information into a fake human-resources department Web form. Sometimes scammers go to great lengths, staging phone interviews or sometimes even conference calls with multiple people in an effort to appear legitimate. The goal? To talk people into handing over Social Security and bank-account numbers.
 WORK FROM HOME Proliferating recently are fake ''Mystery Shopper'' positions evaluating the services of companies, especially money-wiring services. Victims are typically asked to deposit a check for several thousand dollars into their bank account, immediately use a bit of the money to shop at big-box stores and wire the rest via a service like Western Union or MoneyGram. Of course, the check is counterfeit, leaving victims out any money they wired and opening them to criminal prosecution for passing a bad check.
 MONEY-MULE AND RESHIPPER These are some of the most dangerous schemes, since they can turn people, often unwittingly, into accomplices of international crime rings. More sophisticated than the now-familiar Nigerian e-mail messages, money mules are recruited by purported international companies looking for ''receiving payment agents'' who will accept payments into their bank account from ''customers'' (identity fraud victims) and wire the money to their ''employer'' (criminals). Some are told to keep 10 percent, but many are promised payment by direct deposit, which, of course, never comes.
 Reshipper scams start with international shipping companies looking for ''logistics managers'' to receive packages of laptops, iPods and cameras, bought with stolen credit cards, and send them on to a foreign country. Again, direct-deposit payment never comes.
 How to Protect Yourself 
 BE SKEPTICAL. Red flags include offers using poor grammar and spelling and that come from e-mail addresses that don't match the name of the company. Real companies use polished language, emphasize a job's duties and use corporate e-mail addresses, not Yahoo or Gmail accounts.
 DO YOUR HOMEWORK. Research the company. Do they have a professional Web site with lots of content, a list of executives' names and a phone number where you can reach a human being?
 Often a simple Google search will be enough to spot trouble; there are scads of warnings from people who believe they were cheated by Google Treasure Chest, for instance. You can also check companies' reputations with the Better Business Bureau and look for complaints on Web sites like Complaintsboard.com and PhishBucket.org.
 KEEP IT PRIVATE. Limit the personal information you give online. This starts with your resume: Don't include any information you wouldn't want broadcast to the world, which is exactly what you're doing. Avoid providing your home address, a key bit of information for perpetrators of identity fraud; most real employers are happy with a general geographic location, like Greater New York City region. Unless you're signing an employment agreement, keep your Social Security number to yourself.
 SPECIALIZE YOUR SEARCH. ''If you are in a particular sector or profession, go to the niche site first,'' Ms. Dixon says. Scammers want the volume provided by big sites. Moreover, niche sites often filter job posts by hand and tend to be intimately familiar with the companies posting them, making it easier for them to spot fakes. Look for industry-specific job boards or professional groups with online listings.
 GET TO KNOW THE COMPANY. During the hiring process, both parties should be looking for a good fit. Craigslist's chief executive, Jim Buckmaster, says job seekers on his site should, as general rule, ''deal with only local businesses you can meet face to face.'' Mr. Buckmaster says Craigslist's system captures the large majority of scams before they reach the site, but ''it's virtually impossible to keep every scam from traversing an Internet site that 50 million people are using each month.'' 
 GO LOW TECH. Most people get jobs through local want ads, professional associations, job-search agencies, temp agencies and their personal networks of colleagues, friends and family. ''The old-fashioned way is still sometimes the best way,'' says Linda Foley, a founder of the consumer advocacy Identity Theft Resource Center.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY STUART GOLDENBERG) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); WIRE TRANSFERS (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EMAIL MARKETING (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); COUNTERFEITING (68%); POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

COMPANY: EXPRESS INC (72%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%)

TICKER: EXPR (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (72%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



145 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Takes Regulators to Task on Turf Battle

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In what has become a routine spectacle, financial regulators went to Congress this week and raised objections to major portions of President Obama's plan to overhaul financial industry rules.
 The dissident regulators -- senior officials at the Federal Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency -- told the Senate banking committee on Tuesday that the new consumer protection agency the president proposes to transfer some of their authority to would never be as effective as they have been. 
 But instead of modifying or withdrawing the plan, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, has taken the regulators to task, warning them that they are partly responsible for the economic crisis and that their public objections are playing into the hands of industry groups seeking to kill the plan, officials involved in those discussions said. 
 Mr. Geithner also told the regulators that if the plan fails in Congress, it will be partly a consequence of their public challenges, which coincide with the views of the banks they supervise.
 Mr. Geithner, in a brief interview on Wednesday, said he was confident that Congress in the end would adopt legislation embracing the administration's core principles. He said it was understandable that the regulators had tried to preserve their jurisdiction over consumer issues. 
 But he said he also warned them not to lose sight of the broader objective -- getting approval of legislation that all of them largely support -- instead of being used by opponents of the plan to kill or substantially dilute the legislation because of relatively modest policy differences.
 ''I have told them, 'Don't let your effort to defend your turf add to the complexity of getting legislation done,' '' Mr. Geithner said. ''I said, 'You all have a huge amount of credibility at stake.' ''
 Banks and regulators have resisted a proposal to create a new agency to regulate credit cards, mortgages and other consumer debt. Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Fed, has told Congress that it would be better policy for the central bank to continue to write the consumer product rules. Sheila C. Bair, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and John C. Dugan, the comptroller of the currency, have said that bank examiners at their agencies should continue to be the primary enforcer of consumer protection laws at those banks they already regulate for safety and soundness issues.
 Ms. Bair, Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Dugan all head up independent agencies and were originally appointed by President George W. Bush.
 Industry lobbyists could not be happier about the regulators' opposition.
 ''It's entirely appropriate for the senior bank regulators, which lead independent agencies, to express different views because it makes for better policy making,'' said Camden R. Fine, head of the Independent Community Bankers Association. ''They are team players -- for the American people and for the banking industry. Just because they disagree over certain provisions does not mean that they do not share the same goals as the administration, which is creating a better system. They just have different approaches.'' 
 Edward L. Yingling, the veteran top lobbyist for the American Bankers Association, said that no one should be surprised by the public challenges to the proposal that have been raised by regulators. ''Each of these people are known commodities and people on the Hill and you and others know where they are coming from and their philosophies,'' he said. ''John Dugan was Republican counsel of the banking committee. Sheila has had strong views since she arrived at the F.D.I.C.. Ben Bernanke is very highly respected.''
 But the public dissent, which brought to the surface long-running debates that had been going on behind closed doors while the administration was drafting its plan, has taken senior Obama aides by surprise. The administration fears that it feeds industry opposition that has delayed action in the House and reinforced challenges in an already hostile Senate.
 Administration officials, confirming an account first disclosed in The Wall Street Journal, said Mr. Geithner upbraided top regulators at a Treasury meeting for airing their views. The participants included Mr. Bernanke, Mr. Dugan and Ms. Bair.
 One participant in the meeting said that the bank regulators felt that Mr. Geithner treated them like children being reprimanded by a parent. But the meeting appeared to do little to discourage the regulators from once again returning to Congress to express their concerns with elements of the plan, as Mr. Dugan and Ms. Bair did on Tuesday before the Senate Banking Committee.
 There is a rich history of independent regulators taking positions that have frustrated the administrations they served. Franklin D. Roosevelt tried to remove a conservative member of the Federal Trade Commission in 1933 over policy disagreements, leading to a landmark Supreme Court decision, Humphrey's Executor v. United States, that limited the authority of the president to dismiss leaders of independent agencies for such reasons. 
 L. William Seidman, the top regulator of savings and loan institutions during that industry's crisis in the 1980s and 1990s, was a frequent public critic of proposals by the first Bush administration, and often ran political circles around senior officials. He once ridiculed a White House proposal to levy new fees on bank depositors to pay for the bailout, calling it a ''toaster tax'' because, instead of the banks giving a toaster to new depositors, the bank would take one. The appellation stuck and killed the proposal outright. 
 More recently, William H. Donaldson was pressured by the White House to step down as head of the Securities and Exchange Commission after his endorsement of proposals that administration officials opposed.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy F. Geithner says he thinks Congress will adopt new banking laws.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. B1)
Among the major players on bank regulations are, from left, Timothy F. Geithner, Edward L. Yingling, Camden R. Fine, Barney Frank and John C. Dugan.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FROM LEFT, J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS
JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS
MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
AND CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES)
 Sheila C. Bair, head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has been protective of her agency's regulatory power.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MELISSA GOLDEN/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); PERSONAL DEBT (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (73%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (50%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (73%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (73%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); JOHN C DUGAN (78%); SHEILA BAIR (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



146 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: Barack's Progress Report

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Barack Obama had his 48th birthday this week. Since we learned during last year's campaign that he can be blamed for anything bad that's happened in this country since he was a toddler, perhaps this is a good time to suggest that it's his fault the Beatles didn't perform at Woodstock.
 The president celebrated by having lunch with the Democratic senators, proving once again that this is truly a guy who knows how to party. He also showed up at a press briefing to sing ''Happy Birthday'' to Helen Thomas, the legendary reporter and columnist who turned 89 on the same day. 
 Thomas began covering the White House for United Press International in 1961, and she once told me that the competition for Kennedy family stories was so intense, U.P.I. woke up press secretary Pierre Salinger to ask him if it was true that Caroline's hamster had died. This sort of thing would of course never happen now because the hamster would have its own Facebook fan page, updated hourly.
 Obama is hitting another milestone this week. When Congress goes into recess it'll be a rough half-year marker for his presidency. And things have been looking pretty good. American influence is rising abroad, and at home nobody in the White House appears to be plotting to undermine our civil rights on a daily basis. 
 The economy's looking kind of stimulated. These things take time, but the ''cash for clunkers'' part of the plan seems to be working like a charm. Believe it or not, it turns out that Americans will buy a lot more cars if you pay them a bunch of money to do it.
 The Senate is going to plow some more money into the clunker program, once it finishes Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court. The debate has taken the concept of anticlimactic to a whole new level -- although the Republican Jon Kyl's announcement that he's read the wise Latina speech ''many times'' did seem new, in a slightly disturbing way.
 Still, even some of the Republicans who warned that she might become ''untethered'' after her elevation and start committing empathy admitted that Obama has picked an impressive candidate to become the first Hispanic Supreme Court justice. Good work, White House.
 And then there was the administration's first big coup of the week, Bill Clinton's trip to North Korea to rescue the two jailed American journalists. This goes to show how Hillary Clinton will surprise you every time. When it comes to the secretary of state's life story, I thought the one unbendable rule was that whenever he was most needed, Bill was going to be most unhelpful. But there he was at the Burbank airport, delivering the journalists to their families and getting that nice hug from Al Gore. 
 We're still trying to figure out what North Korea wanted. Prestige? New weapons talks? Was the weird, ailing Kim Jong-il working out a succession plot on behalf of one of his sons? He has three, although everyone seems to have written off the oldest since he got picked up using a false passport to get to Tokyo Disneyland. Personally, I like the one who Newsweek says went to Swiss boarding school and wrote an essay about how he'd like to fight terrorism with Jean-Claude Van Damme. But we'll probably wind up with the one who makes his sister call him ''General Comrade.''
 Since everyone running North Korea seems to be crazy, it might be safest to work under the assumption that the motives were crazy, too. Maybe the nation's elite were involved in a high-stakes scavenger hunt, with a list of items that included a 1979 almanac, a matchbook from an Indonesian nightclub, and a picture of Bill Clinton sitting next to the Dear Leader and looking like he was stuffed. 
 Anyhow, Laura Ling and Euna Lee are home. Well done, everybody.
 Once the Senate leaves town, the Obamas can go to Martha's Vineyard and relax. True, there's no health care bill yet, and members of Congress are getting yelled at about socialized medicine by people who appear to have been sitting in their attics since the anti-tax tea parties, listening for signs of alien aircraft. But on the bright side, they've finally got something to distract them from the president's birth certificate.
 And -- more good news! -- the Large Hadron Collider in Switzerland is malfunctioning. You may remember that the collider was supposed to smash subatomic particles for super-advanced physics research. Chronic worriers claimed it might create a black hole that would suck up the universe. Or take us back in time to the year when 8-year-old Barack Obama was responsible for Nixon's presidency, the institution of the draft and the popularity of ''Sugar, Sugar'' by the Archies. Or deliver us to a parallel universe in which John McCain and Sarah Palin are running the country.
 Now, as Dennis Oberbye reported this week in The Times, there are problems with the wiring and the magnets. And while this is a loss for science, we're on black hole vacation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (78%); WRITERS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (62%)

COMPANY: UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JON KYL (56%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



147 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: NASA Narrows Options for Post-Shuttle Future

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Where to in space? A blue-ribbon panel charged by the Obama administration to review the United States' human spaceflight program has narrowed the options to seven.
 In three meetings last week, subcommittees of the panel presented possibilities for space flight after NASA retires its space shuttles, coming up with 864 permutations, said Edward F. Crawley, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a panel member. 
 ''All we have to do is get it down to three by next week,'' Dr. Crawley said Wednesday, drawing laughter at a meeting at the Carnegie Institution. 
 ''That's not a joke,'' he added.
 Three of the options under consideration will stay within the reduced budgets the administration is proposing for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration over the next decade. One essentially continues the current program of returning astronauts to the Moon -- developed by the Bush administration after the loss of the shuttle Columbia in 2003 -- but gives up on the goal of getting there by 2020.
 A second extends the International Space Station beyond its planned demise in 2015 to at least 2020, but pushes lunar exploration even further into the future. The third makes a priority of sending astronauts out of low-Earth orbit for the first time since the Apollo program ended more than three decades ago. 
 This last option would dispose of the space station as scheduled in 2015 and eliminate the Ares I rocket that NASA has been designing to take astronauts into orbit. Instead, the agency's limited money would be diverted toward developing a larger Ares V rocket, powerful enough to travel to the Moon. But to save money, landing there would be pushed off into the unspecified future.
 The other four options are not constrained by budget limits, but Norman R. Augustine, the former chief executive of Lockheed Martin who leads the panel, said he did not want to present any options to the administration that would be ''dead on arrival'' because of an exorbitant price tag.
 One of the four expands the ''dash out of low-Earth orbit'' option to a wider exploration of deep space, to a near-Earth asteroid and perhaps the moons of Mars, while still forgoing landings. Another continues the current program but replaces a permanent lunar outpost with stays at different parts of the Moon. 
 A third eliminates the Ares I and Ares V for a rocket more directly adapted from the current shuttles, replacing the orbiter with a disposable cargo container. With this option, it might be economically feasible to postpone the planned retirement of the shuttles in 2010 and narrow the gap when the space agency has no means of its own to send astronauts into space.
 The final option is for NASA to aim directly for Mars and develop technology specifically toward that goal. The agency might still make a visit to an asteroid or the Moon to test the Mars hardware, but those destinations would otherwise be bypassed.
 The panel will put together estimates of cost and a schedule for each option by its final meeting on Wednesday. The panel of 10, which includes former astronauts, academics and industry executives, is to produce its final report at the end of the month.
 In presentations to the panel Wednesday, John Marburger, President George W. Bush's science adviser, said he favored developing the underlying technologies for space exploration without specific target dates for reaching the Moon or Mars, to allow flexibility in managing fluctuating budgets and priorities. 
 Robert Zubrin, president of the Mars Society, which supports exploration of Mars, argued that NASA had been successful only when it was given a specific target and deadline. Without a specific goal, Mr. Zubrin said, the agency's programs have become a less effective hodgepodge. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE STATIONS (90%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); SPACE SHUTTLE (77%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (77%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (74%); BUDGETS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (56%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%)

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH'S MOON (94%); EARTH (92%); MARS (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



148 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: $2 Billion in Grants to Bolster U.S. Manufacturing of Parts for Electric Cars

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Seeking to put the nation back in the lead on an important technology, the Obama administration awarded more than $2 billion in grants on Wednesday for manufacturing advanced batteries and other components for electric cars.
 The president and four members of his cabinet fanned out across the nation's industrial heartland, hit hard by the recession, to announce the grants, meant to help companies bolster large-scale manufacturing lines for modern batteries of the sort now mostly made in Asia.
 President Obama traveled to Elkhart, Ind., for example, to give a $39 million grant to Navistar International, a truck manufacturer. And he sent the vice president, the secretaries of energy and commerce, the deputy secretary of transportation and the head of the Environmental Protection Agency to other cities to make similar announcements. 
 In most cases, the recipients were required to match the federal money dollar for dollar. Some companies that received grants make chemicals for batteries, or components for chemical batteries. Several make capacitors, which are mechanical devices that can absorb or give off jolts of electricity in a few seconds. Those are useful in electric vehicles, for getting them moving or soaking up the electricity they can produce when the driver applies the brakes. 
 The money comes from the economic stimulus package and is intended to further several goals: cutting dependence on petroleum, reducing carbon emissions, creating jobs and giving the United States a better start on what is likely to be a competitive global industry as companies start bringing electric cars to market.
 Sarwant Singh, a consultant at Frost & Sullivan, said the business should work well in the United States, because only 10 percent to 15 percent of the cost of a battery was labor. ''There's no reason that this battery should be manufactured in China,'' he said. ''There's no reason to look for a low-cost manufacturing base; you should look for a high-tech manufacturing base.''
 The Volt, the coming electric car from General Motors, which will have a small gasoline engine and also draw energy from a wall socket, dominated the grants. 
 G.M. received $106 million for the production of battery packs for the car, which is planned for next year and is supposed to go the first 40 miles each day on electricity and the rest on gasoline. G.M. will make the packs in Brownstown, Mich.
 In addition, G.M. received $30 million to build 125 Volts for electric utilities and 500 more for other consumers to use as a test fleet. That comes to nearly $49,000 a vehicle.
 And it received $105 million for construction of factories to produce a second generation of electric vehicles, with rear-wheel drive, in White Marsh, Md., and Wixom, Mich. (The Volt is front-wheel drive.)
 Compact Power, an affiliate of LG Chem, received $151 million, one of the largest grants, for production of cells for the Volt. It will do that work in the Michigan towns of St. Clair, Pontiac and Holland. 
 The Ford Motor Company received $30 million to work with 15 electric utilities and deploy up to 150 plug-in hybrid vehicles, including the Escape, its small sport utility vehicle, and the E-450, a heavy-duty van derived from its old Econoline series. The carmaker also got $63 million to produce components of an electric drivetrain. 
 Chrysler received $70 million to develop and deploy 220 plug-in hybrid pickups and minivans. Since the auto bailouts, the federal government owns 61 percent of G.M. and 8 percent of Chrysler.
 Greg Martin, a spokesman for G.M., said the reason that the company did so well in the grants was that it was ahead of its American competitors in developing a plug-in hybrid. 
 ''It's really captured the imagination of the country and the consumer,'' he said. ''If we're not going to take the leadership in this, other countries will.'' 
 In fact, foreign manufacturers with plants in the United States also got slices. A partner of Nissan, the Electric Transportation Engineering Corporation, which is based in Phoenix, received nearly $100 million to deploy up to 5,000 all-electric vehicles as a demonstration. 
 The money is mostly for lithium-ion batteries, but spread around several different chemistries within that group. A Seattle company, EnerG2, got $21 million, which it said would be used to build the world's first commercial-scale plant for nano-structured battery materials. Those materials reduce battery weight by providing large amounts of space for chemical reactions, in nooks and crannies of finely textured materials. 
 Some of the money is for education, but it is not for research. Nearly all the money is being spent to reduce battery production costs, by getting manufacturing started on a mass basis. 
 Not all the money went to batteries. A small Oregon nonprofit, Cascade Sierra Solutions, got $22 million to install electric outlets in truck stops and to help modify 5,450 trucks so that when drivers park, the cabs can be heated or cooled without idling their diesel engines. Colleges and universities received money for training mechanics. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Compact Power technician testing a lithium-ion battery cell. The company received a grant to make cells for a G.M. electric car.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COMPACT POWER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (92%); GRANTS & GIFTS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ELECTRONIC CAPACITORS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); GREENHOUSE GASES (69%); JOB CREATION (65%)

COMPANY: NAVISTAR INTERNATIONAL CORP (58%); LG CHEM LTD (56%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: NAV (NYSE) (58%); LGCD (LSE) (56%); 051910 (KSE) (56%); GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (58%); NAICS336310 MOTOR VEHICLE GASOLINE ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335911 STORAGE BATTERY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS321918 OTHER MILLWORK (INCLUDING FLOORING) (56%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



149 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Cisco Profit Falls, but Chief Optimistic

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

 BODY:
Stability has been an elusive concept for Cisco Systems over the last year. Sales have been on a jagged downward slope as the technology industry dealt with its worst downturn since the dot-com bust. 
 But now Cisco, the world's largest maker of network technology, says business appears to have reached a ''tipping point.''
 In the last three months, orders have started to arrive at a more consistent pace when measured against historical trends, said John T. Chambers, the chief executive, in an interview on Wednesday after the company released its fiscal fourth-quarter results. 
 ''The orders were very good,'' Mr. Chambers said. ''It was the first normal order rate we have seen sequentially in a year.''
 Such optimism seemed to run counter to Cisco's fourth-quarter results, which showed just how much business spending on networking equipment has slowed. 
 For the period ended July 25, Cisco reported a 46 percent plunge in net income to $1.1 billion, or 19 cents a share, from net income of $2 billion, or 33 cents a share, in the same period last year. Excluding charges for stock-option compensation, acquisitions and one-time items, Cisco earned 31 cents a share, beating the forecast of 29 cents a share by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters. 
 Revenue fell 18 percent year-over-year to $8.5 billion, meeting analysts' expectations. Sales of Cisco's flagship routing and switching products fell 27 percent and 20 percent, respectively. 
 Setting those bleak sales figures aside, Mr. Chambers focused on recent sales trends to support his hopes for better results ahead. The $8.5 billion in revenue, for example, was Cisco's first quarter-to-quarter sales increase in a year. In addition, the increase in orders from the third quarter to the fourth quarter matched past trends, leading Mr. Chambers to characterize the business as more stable. 
 Looking ahead, Cisco expects its first-quarter revenue to come in 15 to 17 percent below the $10.3 billion it reported last year. But even with such declines, Cisco would report quarter-to-quarter growth once again. 
 ''On a global basis, we are starting to see potential positive trends in Asia-Pacific, the U.S., emerging markets and Japan,'' Mr. Chambers said. He added that selling equipment in Europe remained difficult.
 Despite those positive signals, Mr. Chambers, known for his upbeat demeanor, cautioned that a recovery was not guaranteed. ''No one knows for sure when the recovery will occur,'' he said. ''You would like to see a couple more quarters of the trends we saw before talking about that.''
 Cisco has cut more than 2,000 jobs over the last year, but on Wednesday, the company declared an end to layoffs. Analysts saw this as a crucial indicator that Mr. Chambers thought Cisco had reached bottom.
 ''Effectively we have a new plateau, and moving forward, things appear to be behaving roughly the way they should,'' said Sam Wilson, a communications analyst for JMP Securities.
 In the midst of the economic downturn, Cisco has charged into several new markets, including computer servers for businesses and video recorders for consumers. 
 For the year, revenue fell 9 percent, to $36.1 billion, and profit dropped 24 percent, to $6.1 billion. Cisco finished with $35 billion in cash -- one of the largest hoards in the technology industry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Cisco Systems data center in San Jose, Calif. The company says orders are more consistent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAKUMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); TRENDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); LAYOFFS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (65%)

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (97%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (97%)

PERSON: JOHN T CHAMBERS (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (64%) CALIFORNIA, USA (66%) EUROPE (66%); UNITED STATES (66%); ASIA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



150 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: With Scandal as Backdrop, New Jersey Race Heats Up

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: PARAMUS, N.J. 

 BODY:
The corruption scandal that led to the arrests of mayors, state lawmakers and other public officials erupted into a major issue in the New Jersey governor's race on Wednesday. Christopher J. Christie, the Republican nominee and former prosecutor who made his name locking up politicians, accused Gov. Jon S. Corzine of lacking the character and courage to reform what he called ''the broken state we are all living in.''
 Mr. Corzine, a Democrat, hit back hard on two fronts. He released a new television advertisement accusing Mr. Christie of buying his job as United States attorney for New Jersey with $350,000 in donations to former President George W. Bush. 
 The governor also unleashed surrogates to highlight Mr. Christie's record of deploring no-bid contracts but then doling them out to supporters when he was in office.
 The exchange came two weeks after 44 people, many of them Democratic officials and operatives in Jersey City, Hoboken and several other communities, were charged in a bribery sting that reignited stereotypes about New Jersey and its crooked politicians.
 But whether voters will care when the November election arrives is up in the air. 
 At first, the scandal seemed likely to help Mr. Christie, who started out his campaign as an anticorruption crusader only to see that lose relevance as economic worries took hold. 
 But a Monmouth University poll released Monday found just 13 percent of voters considered corruption among the one or two most important issues candidates should be talking about -- well behind property taxes and the economy.
 While Mr. Christie has taken sporadic shots at Mr. Corzine on the subject, and Mr. Corzine has been running ads accusing Mr. Christie of cronyism and nepotism, Wednesday's skirmish was the first time that the two candidates engaged squarely on a subject that has dominated the state's political conversation.
 In Paramus, Mr. Christie said Mr. Corzine had harmed the cause of combating corruption by calibrating his response depending on who was in trouble and their political importance.
 He said Mr. Corzine was ''desperately grandstanding'' when he demanded resignations by the Hoboken mayor, Peter J. Cammarano III, and the Ridgefield mayor, Anthony R. Suarez, who were both charged last month. But he said the governor's ''silence was deafening'' when powerful Democrats like Wayne R. Bryant, who was a state senator, and Sharpe James, the former Newark mayor, were indicted in earlier cases.
 ''It's politics, pure and simple,'' Mr. Christie said. ''He needed them. He didn't need Peter Cammarano or Anthony Suarez. And Jon Corzine wonders why New Jersey citizens are so cynical.''
 He also mocked Mr. Corzine for threatening a takeover and ordering a state review of the business dealings by Mr. Suarez's government in Ridgefield, population 11,000.
 ''Where is his concern for the 241,000 residents of Jersey City?'' Mr. Christie said. ''Where the deputy mayor, the city council president, and an army of city employees were charged with corruption, why the lack of action by Jon Corzine? I wonder -- could it be that he fears angering a large portion of his political base, 90 days prior to the election?''
 Mr. Christie said Mr. Corzine had not threatened a takeover in Passaic and East Orange when the Democratic mayors of those cities were charged by Mr. Christie's office two years ago. ''Could it be again because 2007 was not a re-election year for Jon Corzine?'' he said.
 ''When you engage in grandstanding for political gain, when you apply ethics rules selectively, when you send mixed signals on matters that you claim involve principle, you hurt the fight against corruption,'' Mr. Christie said. ''You give cover to those who believe that maybe next time, the law and the ethical standards may not be applied equally to them, because they belong to the party of the guy in power, or because the city or district they represent is too large to challenge.''
 Mr. Corzine, meanwhile, dispatched a Democratic ally, Brian Hughes, the Mercer County executive, to attack Mr. Christie for telling a newspaper that broken campaign promises were ''the first path towards corruption.''
 In a statement, Mr. Hughes said Mr. Christie was guilty of breaking his own promise to eliminate no-bid contracts after he ran successfully to become a freeholder in Morris County. And though Mr. Christie spoke out against no-bid contracts as a prosecutor, he wound up naming friends to several lucrative posts monitoring companies that entered into special agreements with his office. 
 ''It seems as though the rules Christie has laid out do not apply to him,'' Mr. Hughes said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christopher J. Christie, in Paramus, and Gov. Jon S. Corzine, in Camden. Mr. Christie said his rival lacked the courage to reform the state
Mr. Corzine raised ethical questions about Mr. Christie. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INDICTMENTS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); AUCTIONS (74%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



151 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Obama Back in Indiana With Message and Aid

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

DATELINE: WAKARUSA, Ind. 

 BODY:
With his administration bracing for a report on Friday that could show unemployment breaching double digits, President Obama returned here on Wednesday for a fourth visit to a county that passed that mark months ago. 
 He arrived bearing federal aid to help push the unemployment rate down, and to push back against Republican attacks on the $787 billion two-year stimulus package from which the aid is drawn.
 Mr. Obama led an administration team that fanned out from Washington for the day to promote the recovery act's benefits. He came to Monaco Coach, a manufacturer of recreational vehicles that in recent months went from bankrupt to back in business under a new owner, to announce that it and dozens of other companies and educational institutions nationwide had won grants totaling $2.4 billion for development and deployment of battery-powered electric vehicles. 
 Indiana, which voted Democratic in the presidential election last November for the first time since 1964, was the second-largest recipient of aid from the package, with $400 million for seven grants, including $39 million for Monaco Coach. About $1 billion went to hard-hit Michigan, where Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. traveled. Cabinet officials were in Florida, Missouri, North Carolina and Pennsylvania for similar announcements.
 The day's events were part of the administration's weeklong campaign to spread a message that the economy has been rescued and now, with a hand from the government, is rebuilding on a more high-tech foundation. But with the week likely to end this Friday with the Labor Department's reporting that unemployment in July increased from the 9.5 percent in June, the president and his lieutenants tempered their optimism. 
 Private economists expect an increase in the rate, though perhaps one that would leave it short of 10 percent. Several states, including Indiana, have already topped 10 percent.
 ''I know these are tough times,'' the president told workers at Monaco Coach. ''If you haven't lost a job, you know somebody who has, maybe a family member, a neighbor, a friend.''
 But, he added, ''we've got to set our sights higher, not lower.''
 Mr. Obama's repeated trips to Elkhart County, an area of farms and small industry in northern Indiana, has made it something of an administration touchstone for the crisis he inherited and for his plans to surmount it.
 He first came as a Democratic presidential candidate in May 2008, when the unemployment rate was 5.1 percent. Three months later, it was 9.1 percent when he came as his party's presumptive nominee and promised that as president his energy policies would create green jobs. Last February, with unemployment nearly 20 percent, Mr. Obama made his first trip outside Washington as president to Elkhart to promote his proposed stimulus plan.
 When he returned on Wednesday with the money in hand, the county's jobless rate had slipped below 17 percent. In the six months since his last visit, Monaco Coach had declared bankruptcy and closed, leaving 1,400 jobless before the Navistar Corporation, based in Illinois, bought some assets, hiring or re-hiring 200 employees. Most were on the plant floor to hear Mr. Obama.
 ''Navistar saved us,'' said Randy Trotter, who was laid off last November and rehired in June. But Mr. Trotter said the prospect of federal assistance had to be a factor.
 Jeff Compton, a co-worker agreed, saying, ''I wouldn't think they would have risked that otherwise.''
 Congressional Democrats have expressed frustration that Republicans, emboldened by Mr. Obama's slip in the polls amid worries about the debt, have seemed to seize the upper hand with their attacks that the ''bloated'' stimulus package had been a bust. Mr. Obama seemed to address that concern here. Describing the parts of the package, he started by noting emphatically that one-third was ''tax relief for families and small businesses.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke on Wednesday at Monaco Coach, an R.V. manufacturer. He announced grants for electric vehicles.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



152 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Rethinking North Korea, With Sticks

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
Now that President Bill Clinton has extricated Laura Ling and Euna Lee from North Korea, the hard work begins.
 There are new indications that North Korea may be transferring nuclear weapons technology to Myanmar, the dictatorship also known as Burma, and that it earlier supplied a reactor to Syria. For many years, based on five visits to North Korea and its border areas, I've argued for an ''engagement'' approach toward Pyongyang, but now I've reluctantly concluded that we need more sticks.
 Burmese defectors have provided detailed accounts of a North Korean reactor, perhaps a mirror of the one provided to Syria, built inside a mountain deep in Myanmar. The reports, first aired in The Sydney Morning Herald this month, come from Desmond Ball, a respected Asia scholar, and Phil Thornton, a journalist with expertise on Myanmar, and there has been other fragmentary intelligence to back them up. 
 If the defectors' accounts are true, the reactor ''could be capable of being operational and producing a bomb a year, every year, after 2014,'' Mr. Ball and Mr. Thornton wrote.
 The suspicions may be false, and Iraq is a reminder that defector reports about W.M.D. can be wrong. But partly because the North Korean reactor in Syria (destroyed by Israeli bombing in 2007) caught intelligence agencies by surprise, everyone is taking the latest reports seriously. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton expressed concern about the transfer of nuclear technology from North Korea to Myanmar, without giving details.
 All this was eerily foreshadowed by the North Koreans themselves. Michael Green, who ran Asian affairs for a time in the Bush White House, says that in March 2003, a North Korean official -- with hands shaking -- read out to him and other American officials a warning: We have a nuclear deterrent. If you don't end your hostile policy, we will demonstrate, expand and transfer it.
 ''They've done all those things,'' Mr. Green notes.
 At times in the past, there seemed hope for diplomacy aimed at coaxing North Korea into giving up its nuclear program and joining the concert of nations. These days that seems virtually hopeless.
 ''Formal diplomatic engagement aimed at rolling back their nuclear program has run its course, at least for the time being,'' says Mitchell Reiss, a North Korea expert and former senior State Department official who is now at the College of William and Mary. ''The facts have changed. You have to change your strategy.''
 In the past, Mr. Reiss focused on engagement. Now he advocates ''hard containment'' -- toughened sanctions backed by military force if necessary. 
 The truth is that North Korea doesn't want to negotiate away its nuclear materials. It is focused on its own transition, and this year it has declined to accept a visit from the Obama administration's special envoy, Stephen Bosworth. The North isn't interested in ''six-party talks'' on nuclear issues; instead, it seeks talks with the U.S. conditioned on accepting North Korea's status as a nuclear power -- which is unacceptable.
 In recent months, North Korea has dismantled some economic reforms and economic cooperation projects with South Korea. Meanwhile, it continues to counterfeit U.S. $100 bills -- the highest-quality goods that North Korea manufactures -- and its embassies in Pakistan and other countries pay their way by smuggling drugs, liquor and currency. The North has released its American hostages but continues to hold South Koreans. And it's the most totalitarian state in history: In North Korean homes, I've seen the ''speaker'' on the wall that wakes people up with propaganda each morning. More bizarre, triplets are routinely taken from parents and raised by the state because they are considered auspicious.
 There are no good options here, and a grass-roots revolution is almost impossible. North Koreans, even those in China who despise the regime, overwhelmingly agree that most ordinary North Koreans swallow the propaganda. Indeed, Kim Jong-il's approval rating in his country may well be higher than President Obama's is in the United States.
 Our best bet will be to continue to support negotiations, including a back channel that can focus on substance instead of protocol, as well as economic and cultural exchanges -- but backed up by sticks. The Obama administration is now working with allies to reimpose economic and financial sanctions that a few years ago were very successful in squeezing the North Korean regime. China is surprisingly cooperative, even quietly intercepting several shipments of supplies useful for W.M.D. programs. 
 Where we have intelligence that North Korean ships are transferring nuclear materials or technology to a country like Myanmar or Iran, we should go further and board those vessels. That's an extreme step, but the nightmare would be if Iran simply decided to save time and buy a nuclear weapon or two from North Korea. We can't allow that to happen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (68%); WRITERS (68%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) MYANMAR (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



153 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 6, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Good Ol' Goldman

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Lloyd C. Blankfein has a story about the cataclysm that nearly brought down all of Wall Street. It goes something like this: One by one, lesser banks were swept away by the financial storm of 2008. And as the floodwaters rose, no one, not even Goldman Sachs, seemed safe.
 The question, in Mr. Blankfein's eyes, was how high the water would rise. But Washington stepped in with all those bailouts before the surge reached Goldman.
 The story, which was recounted by several friends and colleagues, represents a sobering private admission from Mr. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive. 
 Publicly, it is a different story. Now that Goldman is minting money again, the bank insists that it was never in any real danger. Mr. Blankfein, in an e-mail message this week, disputed his private account, saying Goldman's survival was never in doubt. Other Goldman executives reject the notion that the bank was rescued at all. 
 ''We did not have a near-death experience,'' said Gary D. Cohn, Goldman's president. The government saved the financial industry as a whole, but it did not save Goldman Sachs, he said.
 Rarely has the view from inside a company been so at odds with the view outside it. Could Goldman Sachs have lived if all those other giant banks had failed? Could it alone survive financial Armageddon? 
 Goldman executives are dismissive, even defiant, when critics argue that the bank is playing a heads-we-win, tails-you-lose game with American taxpayers. And yet the questions keep coming. Last month the story of Goldman's postcrisis success -- and conspiracy theories surrounding it -- leapt from the business pages to the cover of Rolling Stone. 
 The idea that nothing has changed for Goldman Sachs strikes many outsiders as absurd. In this era of mega-bailouts, Goldman is widely perceived, on Wall Street and in Washington, as too big and important to fail. If its bets pay off, Goldman profits and its employees get rich. If its bets go bad, ultimately taxpayers will have to pick up the bill. 
 ''Many observers on the market believe that Goldman and others of its size now have a free insurance policy,'' said Elizabeth Warren, the chairwoman of the Congressional oversight panel for the $700 billion bailout fund. ''Whether they do or not is less important than the fact that many in the market believe they do. That means at some level Goldman is playing with the American taxpayers' future.''
 Is Goldman gambling at America's expense? Of course not, Mr. Cohn said. Should it change its business strategy in the wake of the gravest financial crisis since the Depression? No. Is Goldman taking big risks to make big profits? Courting more outrage over Wall Street pay with its plans to pay lavish bonuses? Throwing its weight around in Washington? 
 No, no, no. 
 Goldman executives dispute suggestions that high-stakes market gambles are behind its big profits -- $3.4 billion in the second quarter. And they are dumbfounded when people like Ms. Warren suggest companies like Goldman, which paid back its bailout money last month, now operate with an implicit taxpayer guarantee. 
 After so many wrenching changes on Wall Street and in the economy, it might come as a surprise that the post-bailout Goldman is virtually indistinguishable from the pre-bailout one. 
 The bank has strengthened its capital base and reduced its use of leverage -- the borrowed money that turbo-charges profits on the way up and can prove devastating on the way down. But Goldman sees little reason to change the way it does business. In fact, its executives are surprised that anyone would suggest it should. 
 Even Goldman's conversion to a traditional banking company at the height of the crisis -- a step many predicted would clip Goldman's gilded wings -- has been deftly sidestepped. 
 It is, in other words, business as usual at Goldman -- and what a business it is. Quarter after quarter, Wall Street executives scour Goldman's results hoping to figure out how the bank makes so much money. Mr. Cohn and other executives, in recent interviews, sketched the broad outlines of an answer. Mr. Blankfein declined to be interviewed for this article.
 During the second quarter, Goldman bet, correctly, that the financial markets would calm down. It wagered that market volatility would decline and that certain securities tied to the troubled home mortgage market would revive. Its securities underwriting business bounced back too.
 A vast majority of profits came from trading on behalf of clients like big mutual funds, pension funds and endowments, rather than from staking Goldman's own money in the markets, Mr. Cohn said. Proprietary trading now accounts for about 10 percent of profits, down from 20 percent in 2005. Goldman dominated institutional trades linked to changes in a closely watched stock market index, the Russell 2000, and is benefiting because old competitors like Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers are no longer around. 
 ''We don't have to outsmart the market today,'' said Mr. Cohn. ''We just have to do what our clients want us to do.''
 But unlike some of its rivals, Goldman is not shy about taking risks. The bank stood to lose as much as $245 million on any given day during the second quarter, based on a common measure known as value at risk, or VAR. That was up from $184 million in mid-2008. But VAR captures only about a fifth of Goldman's market risks and excludes investments that are difficult to value.
 ''Our risk appetite continues to grow year on year, quarter on quarter, as our balance sheet and liquidity continue to grow,'' Mr. Cohn said. He and other executives say Goldman carefully manages its risks, which, for the most part, it has. 
 Goldman's latest quarterly disclosures to the Securities and Exchange Commission, filed on Wednesday, provide another glimpse into the bank's activities. Aided by cheap credit, Goldman generated more than $100 million in daily revenue from trading on 46 separate days during the second quarter -- a record.
 Since late 2007, Goldman has reduced its exposure to illiquid investments, which can pose dangers because they are traded so infrequently, by 8 percent. Its total exposure to these so-called Level 3 assets still stood at $50.4 billion. While VAR is up, other risk measures were down, and the bank's capital base has grown significantly. Lately, Goldman has been taking more risks in stocks, but fewer in fixed income, currency and commodities. 
 Some of Goldman's recent practices are drawing scrutiny from government officials. In its filing Wednesday, Goldman said various government agencies had inquired about its compensation practices, as well as its role in the market for credit derivatives, which fueled the financial crisis. 
 But over all, the events of the past year have not changed the way Goldman views or manages the risks it takes, said David A. Viniar, Goldman's chief financial officer. 
 ''There are a few business units that are taking a little more risk. Most are taking less,'' Mr. Viniar said. 
 Mr. Cohn, Goldman's president, acknowledges his bank is systemically important, meaning that its failure would probably send financial shock waves around the world. But he said that the implications of this status were unclear and that Goldman had no government backing. 
 David A. Moss, a professor at Harvard Business School, disagrees. He says the painful lessons of the financial crisis show the federal government now stands behind all systemically important financial institutions.
 ''We're in a situation where we've extended important guarantees, both explicit and implicit, to almost all major financial institutions, yet we don't have the regulations in place to control the excessive risk-takingthat could result,'' said Mr. Moss, the author of ''When All Else Fails: Government as the Ultimate Risk Manager.''
 In any case, Goldman has certainly helped itself to government programs that were put in place to stabilize the financial industry. For instance, the bank has issued billions of dollars of bonds guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Since March it has sold $3.4 billion worth without government backing. 
 And Goldman's conversion to a bank holding company, executed at the height of the crisis, gives the bank access to money from the Federal Reserve. In exchange, Goldman had to increase its capital, reduce its leverage and accept Fed oversight. 
 Many analysts predicted that switch would force Goldman to rein in riskier businesses like proprietary trading and parts of its commodities operation. But Goldman has largely carried on as usual. It has received standard exemptions that give it two years to comply with federal regulations governing bank holding companies.
 ''They are very happy to go back to a business model that year-in and year-out has made them untold wealth,'' said John C. Coffee, a professor of securities law at Columbia University.
 Mr. Cohn concedes that Goldman, along with other banks, bears some responsibility for the financial crisis. ''There's no performance angel in this,'' he said. But he bristles at all the fingers being pointed at Goldman. 
 ''Every bank has to accept a degree of responsibility, but it sometimes feels like we're being disproportionately blamed,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Since taxpayers got Goldman back on solid ground, Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman, says it was never in any real danger.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INSURANCE POLICIES (63%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2009



154 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Bank of England to Inject $85 Billion Into Economy

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER and CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The Bank of England and the European Central Bank warned on Thursday that the outlook for economic recovery remained uncertain -- so much so that the British central bank said it would extend its policy of printing new money.
 Despite some signs of improvement in the European economy and financial markets, the two central banks, as expected, kept their benchmark interest rates unchanged at record lows -- 0.5 percent for the Bank of England and 1 percent for the European Central Bank. 
Low interest rates and other measures have helped stabilize the economy, but policy makers remain doubtful that a swift recovery is coming.
 ''In the United Kingdom, the recession appears to have been deeper than previously thought,'' the Bank of England said in a statement.
 ''Though there are signs that credit conditions may have started to ease,'' the bank said, ''lending to business has fallen and spreads on bank loans remain elevated. Financial conditions remain fragile.''
 The Bank of England received permission from the government to inject an additional $:50 billion ($85 billion) into the economy through its asset-purchase program to improve the availability of credit. The bank will buy mainly government bonds with the newly created money but will also purchase some corporate debt. The purchases are to be made in the next three months and come on top of $:125 billion already spent since March.
 Some economists had predicted the bank would pause in its so-called quantitative easing program, after some positive data in recent months from the manufacturing and services industries, as well as an improvement in the housing market. But the central bank said credit remained tight as lenders continued to repair their balance sheets, suggesting that more than a record low interest rate was needed to bring about a recovery.
 The pound dropped sharply after the central bank's announcement on concern that investors had heralded a recovery prematurely, and bond yields fell in anticipation of the purchases.
 The Bank of England began pumping cash into the financial system in March to help put the British economy back on its feet, and analysts were split over whether it had achieved its goal. Those who favored an expansion of the plan said it had improved the supply of credit only marginally. Those who opposed it said the British economy was already showing signs of improvement.
 James Knightley, an economist at ING Financial Markets in London, said ''the decision to expand is all about ensuring the recovery while they have some room for maneuver because there is no inflationary pressure.''
 The Federal Reserve in the United States, the only other major central bank that decided in favor of large-scale quantitative easing, has already started to pull back. It announced in June that it would not extend one of its emergency lending programs, and it cut back two others.
 The European Central Bank has made only a limited foray into quantitative easing. While it announced in May that it would spend 60 billion euros ($86 billion) to buy covered bonds, a type of securitized lending, so far it has spent only 5 billion euros on the program.
 The bank is treading cautiously because the European economy still faces a number of speed bumps, like fractured banking systems in some countries, before it can resume growing.
 In addition, the unemployment rate in the 16-country euro zone is likely to explode later this year, economists said. Unemployment hit 9.4 percent in June.
 ''In general, the overall mood is -- right or wrong -- today a little bit better than it was before,'' said the European Central Bank president, Jean-Claude Trichet.
 But Mr. Trichet warned that rising unemployment could slow down any recovery, adding that ''this will have a bearing on the overall mood of households as well as the economy as a whole.''
 The central banks faced the additional challenge of managing expectations. The markets -- buoyed by rising share prices -- could interpret an optimistic tone, however justified it might be by the evidence, as a sign the central banks would soon begin withdrawing extra liquidity and shift their stance on interest rates, their main weapon in fighting a searing recession.
 ''They're too nervous to say that things are getting better,'' said Erik F. Nielsen, chief Europe economist at Goldman Sachs. ''In some ways, the central bankers seem less confident than the markets are these days.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jean-Claude Trichet said the mood was ''a little bit better.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY KAI PFAFFENBACH/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INFLATION (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); CORPORATE BONDS (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); BONDS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); ING GROEP NV (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (58%); INGA (AMS) (58%); ING (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



155 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Rich Britons, Offshore and Lightly Taxed, but Maybe Not Forever

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: ST. PETER PORT, Guernsey 

 BODY:
The panoramic view of the English Channel and Guernsey's craggy western shore from the financier Guy Hands's new $10 million home is splendid. No less so is the vista from his soon-to-be-completed rooftop office on the eastern side of this small English-speaking island just off the French coast of Normandy. 
 But Mr. Hands, London's most renowned private equity financier, has not abandoned the land of his birth just for the seaside splendor. What has mainly drawn him to Guernsey is its welcoming tax regime -- 20 percent on income and, crucially for those in the business of buying and selling assets, zero on capital gains.
The question is, will he get away with it? 
 With his appetite for big deals and the limelight that surrounds them, Mr. Hands, 49, came to symbolize the boom years in the City of London -- much as Stephen A. Schwarzman, the chairman of the Blackstone Group, epitomized Wall Street's own era of excess. 
 He is by no means the first rich Briton to take advantage of a loophole that allows individuals to become nonresidents for tax purposes but keep their passports as long as they do not spend more than 90 days a year on British soil. 
 But the timeworn trick of moving one's main residence to the Channel Islands, Monaco or the Cayman Islands, to name just a few, while maintaining business, social and cultural ties in Britain is not as simple as it used to be. That is because British authorities have started to crack down on the practice. 
 The increased scrutiny comes at a time of heightened sensitivity to tax avoidance worldwide. While moving to a tax haven is still rare among the rich, it represents the tip of the iceberg of the far more common practice of moving substantial sums of money abroad, often without reporting it to authorities. 
 The numbers are vast and hard to pin down, but according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, wealthy individuals from around the world hold about $6 trillion offshore, resulting in billions of dollars in lost tax revenue every year. 
 The Swiss bank UBS's practice of designing complex schemes to insulate the offshore earnings of its American clients has been the subject of an investigation by United States authorities. And the prospect of higher tax rates in the United States has raised further questions about how wealthy Americans will respond to being asked to pay more to the government. 
 To the surprise of many, a British court ruled last autumn that Robert Gaines-Cooper, a retired businessman who has lived in the Seychelles Islands in the Indian Ocean since 1975, was still a resident of Britain and owed taxes on his income for much of the time he was living abroad. 
 Even though Mr. Gaines-Cooper's lawyers argued that he had spent less than 90 days a year in Britain, the court cited instead his regular visits to the races at Royal Ascot, the fleet of Rolls Royces he kept in England and that his son and wife lived in the country.
 That decision, while still subject to a final appeal, sent a collective shiver through the tax-exile community. 
 ''Mr. Hands will certainly have some questions to answer,'' said Peter Vaines, a tax lawyer who represents Mr. Gaines-Cooper. ''The tax man will say, 'We don't think you have really left' -- I am sure of it. His advisers will have a lot of work to do.'' 
 Mr. Hands, who has an estimated net worth of $:200 million ($336 million), declined to comment. But his lawyers hope to make the case that the funds of his company, Terra Firma Capital Partners, are administered in Guernsey and all the main investment decisions are made here, and that Mr. Hands has also publicly vowed not to set foot again in Britain for the immediate future. If so, that should establish beyond a doubt that he is a resident of Guernsey, which is dependent on Britain for defense although it has its own powers to tax and spend. 
 Others are not so sure. Tax experts point out that his wife, who owns their stately home in the Kent countryside southeast of London, runs a hotel business that is based in Britain. Three of his four children still attend British schools, and the majority of Terra Firma's employees, about 60, are based in its London office. 
 ''My opinion is that he is free-riding,'' said Richard Murphy, the founder of the Tax Justice Network, an industry watchdog, as well as an adviser to the British government on tax evasion techniques. ''Guy Hands wants to make money out of the U.K. economy and the structures and guarantees we provide, but he does not want to pay for it.'' 
 The recent increase in Britain's top income tax rate to 50 percent has prompted a storm of criticism in financial circles, along with some threats to decamp. 
 ''Any further tax increases would make me get out, too,'' said Jon Moulton, a private equity executive who has a house in Guernsey but has yet to change his residence status. ''I lived here in the '70s, when taxes were 90 percent. It was murderous.'' 
 Mr. Hands made his move to Guernsey in March while still coping with the disastrous after-effects of his debt-laden purchase of the music company EMI and before the tax increase was announced. 
 But, Mr. Moulton said, Mr. Hands has frequently expressed his frustration at the capriciousness of the British tax system -- with the April decision no doubt coming as the final straw. 
 Despite the inflated rhetoric, few have taken that step. 
 Peter Hargreaves, the co-founder of Hargreaves Lansdown, a financial services firm based in Bristol, is infuriated by the upward slope of the tax rate. 
 ''At some point, people will stop paying so much in tax to this lazy, squandering, overmanned part of society,'' he said. But, for the time being, he will not be one. ''I am a very patriotic person,'' he added. ''I have a lot here in the U.K.'' 
 Here on the island, real estate agents and tax lawyers report a flush of recent inquiries, and there is a substantial community of tax exiles among the 60,000 residents -- though few as prominent as Mr. Hands. 
 With its old stone cottages peeking out over quaint harbors and its hyperdeveloped financial expertise (the island says it has $1 trillion in deposits), Guernsey is part Martha's Vineyard, part Singapore -- a discreet tax enclave just 35 minutes by air from Gatwick Airport in London. 
 And while Guernsey received a clean bill of health as a relatively open, well-regulated entity from Group of 20 leaders earlier this year, tax watchdogs say the island attracts billions of dollars that are avoiding taxes. 
 It's an accusation that Guernsey officials vigorously deny. 
 ''We are a low-tax jurisdiction, not a tax haven,'' said Lyndon Trott, the ebullient former foreign currency trader who runs Guernsey as chief minister. 
 Mr. Trott views Mr. Hands's decision to base himself here as an endorsement of the Guernsey model: relaxed simplicity and financial sophistication. 
 ''I think it is this lack of ostentation that appeals to people like Guy Hands,'' he said, as he took a break from a game of beach soccer just down the road from Mr. Hands's house. 
 Guersney certainly lacks Monaco-style flash. The nightclubs are few and a speed limit of 35 miles an hour keeps the Porsches and Bentleys that clog the narrow roads on a tight tether. 
 Mr. Trott says rising taxes in Britain have been good for business, but he concedes that the global downturn has hurt, leading Guernsey to forecast its first deficit in more than 30 years. 
 ''If we raise our taxes to just 23 percent, the deficit would disappear,'' he said a bit wistfully. ''But the island wouldn't accept that -- the tax rate is sacrosanct.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Guy Hands's $10 million home on Guernsey in the English Channel.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
With its narrow streets, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, has a quaint atmosphere, despite being home to multimillionaires like Guy Hands, right, chief executive of Terra Firma Capital Partners.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JONATHAN PLAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRIS RATCLIFFE/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UPPER INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); OCEANS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: UBS AG (63%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (57%)

TICKER: UBSN (SWX) (63%); UBS (NYSE) (63%); BX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (63%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (63%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (56%) GUERNSEY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); ENGLAND (90%); SEYCHELLES (79%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%); MONACO (74%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



156 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: For Iraqis Released by U.S., Little Hope and Plenty of Suspicion

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON; Duraid Adnan and Atheer Kakan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
One day in early February, after a year and a half in various American detention centers, detainee No. 318360 was handed a letter that he was to give to his mother.
 ''We congratulate you on the release of your son,'' read the letter, which was imprinted with the seal of the United States Department of Defense and written in Arabic. ''His case has been concluded and we have made a decision that he needs to be released.'' 
 With that, $25 in cash and a new set of civilian clothes, the detainee, Alaq Khleirallah, 27, was back out onto the streets of Baghdad. He is one of roughly 90,000 detainees who have been released from American detention centers in the past six years, a process that will end sometime next year, when the last center is to be transferred to Iraqi control. Almost 10,000 detainees remain in American custody. 
 They have received a grim welcome. Many return to families crippled by debt from months without a breadwinner. Insurgents see them as potential recruits -- or American agents. Old friends, neighbors and even relatives refuse to greet them in public, suspicious of their backgrounds or worried that a few minutes of socializing could mean guilt by association when the authorities, as Iraqi officials often intimate, come to round them back up. 
 All of these factors are aggravated when the men can find no legitimate work, because of mistrust and a brutal job market. In a town where there are other, bloodier ways to earn cash, this makes for a dangerous brew. 
 ''It's just like Jean Valjean,'' said Abdulhassan Jabr, who read ''Les Miserables'' during his 15 months in Camp Bucca, the largest American detention center in Iraq. ''An innocent guy is thrown in prison, he loses his job, his family goes hungry and they refuse him a job when he gets out. Of course he's going to go the wrong way.''
 Mr. Jabr now works in a rehabilitation center in Sadr City that was set up by American officials and a local sheik with money from the United States Agency for International Development. The center offers trade classes and counseling sessions. 
 Several of those at the center said they attended only on the possibility that microgrants would be handed out at the end. The course ended in May, and former detainees who were reached Thursday said they still had not received any money. Skills are useless without jobs, they said. 
 Mr. Khleirallah, who is supporting a wife and four children, was a policeman when he and three brothers were arrested in 2007, not long after his father and two other brothers were killed by the Mahdi Army, the militia of the anti-American Shiite clericMoktada al-Sadr. 
 Mr. Khleirallah's old job was not waiting when he got out. He and many other detainees said policemen told them that they were forbidden by law from getting jobs in the security forces for 18 months after their release, but that the waiting period could be circumvented with a large bribe. Mr. Khleirallah said he could not afford that on top of his already considerable debt. 
 ''I realized that this is my life,'' he said. ''I'm going to avoid the world.'' 
 According to several senior Iraqi justice officials, no such rule exists.
 Sitting in a freshly painted building that he hopes to turn into a rehabilitation center, Asaad Maki Gannaoui, a Shiite and a member of a local Awakening security force in the Jamila neighborhood, said it was only a matter of months before released detainees turned to the militias for work. 
 ''He's an engineer and can't get a job anywhere,'' Mr. Gannaoui said, pointing at one of the four men in the room with him, who all were nodding. ''It's like they're ordering them to go and do bad things.''
 Though Iraqi officials frequently blame released detainees for attacks, that is more perception than reality, said Brig. Gen. David E. Quantock, commanding general for Task Force 134, the American unit that oversees the detention system in Iraq. Verifiable statistics about recidivism are impossible to come by, in part because the growing Iraqi prison system has no central database. But of the 9,286 people detained by the Americans in 2008, less than 2 percent had been in American custody before. 
 In the early years of the war, many detainees were simply people who were in the wrong place at the wrong time, General Quantock said in June. By mid-2007, it was much more likely that a given detainee had been at least a low-level threat -- for example, someone paid to stand guard for insurgents. 
 Though several high-profile detainees with ties to Shiite militant groups have been set free recently, as gestures of reconciliation, most of those who have been released fall into the low-threat category, General Quantock said. Many of them had become involved with militias simply because there were few other options at the time of their arrest. But the dwindling of the insurgency does not mean that peaceful opportunities abound. 
 In 2005, Iesa Muayad al-Khayat saw his father, who worked for an American company, shot dead in front of his house. The family moved out of Adhamiya, a neighborhood that was becoming overrun with Sunni insurgents, and his mother remarried. Mr. Khayat, who was 17, stayed behind to prevent the family home from falling into the wrong hands. 
 Facing daily threats, he tried to hold onto his home any way he knew how. One afternoon, a man in the neighborhood with bad connections asked Mr. Khayat for a $70 loan. When American troops raided Mr. Khayat's house in early 2007, they found evidence of the loan and took him in. 
 ''To tell the truth, I am so angry,'' he said quietly. ''I faced this problem wrongly.''
 In jail, he was accused of being a spy and was occasionally beaten by other detainees for his ability to speak English. During his 11 months in detention, he received just one letter from the outside. It was from his mother, informing him that the family was leaving for America. 
 In March 2008, Mr. Khayat returned to his neighborhood alone and found that his house had been thoroughly looted. The streets were much safer -- in part because of the roundups that he had been caught up in. Still, neighbors told him that he was lucky to have been in prison. People he knew had been killed while he was away. 
 He was told that one of his father's killers had emigrated to Sweden, but no one could say what had become of the others, nor of those who had threatened Mr. Khayat in the months before his arrest. Now that he was out, and on his own, he realized that he was still a marked man.
 Since then he has moved in with a relative in another part of town. An attempt to get a job as an interpreter with the Americans failed. After almost a year without a job, he found work with a British television production company, and he is waiting, in hope of a United States visa, to get out of Iraq. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: About 90,000 Iraqis have been freed from American detention centers like Camp Cropper.(A1)
18 MONTHS AND $25: Released after a year and a half in American custody, Alaq Khleirallah was given $25, new clothes and a letter saying the authorities decided ''that he needs to be released.''
SEEKING A VISA: While Iesa Muayad al-Khayat was in an American detention center in Iraq, his mother wrote to inform him that his family was moving to America. He hopes to follow them.
 At the Camp Cropper detention center on the outskirts of Baghdad, an Arabic copy of the Geneva Convention is displayed.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MOISES SAMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRISONS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FAMILY (77%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ARRESTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



157 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Birth Rate Is Said to Fall As a Result Of Recession

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
For the first time since the decade began, Americans are having fewer babies, and some experts are blaming the economy.
 ''It's the recession,'' said Andrew Hacker, a sociologist at Queens College of the City University of New York. ''Children are the most expensive item in every family's budget, especially given all the gear kids expect today. So it's a good place to cut back when you're uncertain about the future.''
 In 2007, the number of births in the United States broke a 50-year-old record high, set during the baby boom. But last year, births began to decline nationwide, by nearly 2 percent, according to provisional figures released last week. 
 Those figures from the National Center for Health Statistics, indicate that births declined in all but 10 states in 2008 (most of them in a Northern belt where the recession was generally less severe) compared with the year before. Over all, 4,247,000 births were recorded in 2008, 68,000 fewer than the year before. 
 California logged 14,500 fewer births than in 2007, a 2.6 percent decline and the first since 2001, when the state struggled with job losses in Silicon Valley that led to layoffs in distribution, construction and other sectors.
 Early figures for 2009 appear to confirm the correlation with the recession. As more families were feeling the effects of layoffs and economic uncertainty, births decreased even faster.
 In Arizona, births declined about 3 percent in 2008, the first annual decrease since an economic downturn in 1991. In the first six months of 2009, 7 percent fewer babies were born compared with the year before. The state's population bubble burst and the jobless rate rose from 5.5 percent to 8.7 percent in the 12 months ending in June.
 In the first three months of 2009, births also declined 7 percent in Florida, another state where the economy took a tumble.
 ''It may be that many couples saw it coming,'' said Carl Haub, senior demographer for the Population Reference Bureau.
 Stephanie Coontz, a professor at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash., and research director for the Council on Contemporary Families, a research and advocacy group, said, ''We probably can't prove it yet, but I agree.''
 ''That's what happened in the Great Depression,'' Professor Coontz said, ''and although in some periods since then, we have sometimes seen women decide to have a baby if they get laid off, that decision is usually only made if the husband is working and his job seems secure.
 ''More than 80 percent of the job losses in this recession have been borne by men,'' Professor Coontz added. ''There are a lot of families where a maternity leave would mean that no income at all was coming in.''
 Historically, birth rates have fluctuated with the economy. Record lows were recorded during two economic crises: the Depression in the 1930s and the Arab oil embargo in the 1970s.
 By the 1970s, birth rates were also affected by the rise of feminism and easier access to contraceptives and to abortion. But would they have dropped as low as they did, Mr. Haub asked, without ''the added impetus of inflation, not to mention long lines at the gas station?'' 
 ''While that question can never be definitively answered,'' he said, ''we do know that the economic setting hardly seems conducive to starting families or having additional children. Double-digit inflation during the 1970s made two-earner, two-career families a virtual necessity for many.'' 
 Stephanie J. Ventura, chief of the reproductive statistics branch of the National Center for Health Statistics, said, ''We've had these bumps and drops in the past, but 2009 will be critical.''
 Mr. Haub agreed. ''If the economic crisis can be given a start date of early 2008,'' he said, ''then evidence of a slump in the birth rate might become apparent as early as late 2008, but could not be really conclusive until well into 2009.'' 
 ''It is certainly too soon to tell if this economic crisis will result in a sharp drop in the birth rate,'' he said, ''but all the measures and indicators, along with the collapse of the mainstays of the economy, are much worse than in the 1970s.''
 In 2006 and 2007, the National Center for Health Statistics, part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, recorded a birth rate of 14.3 per thousand people. That number declined to 13.9 in 2008 (most sharply near the end of the year). 
 The fertility rate among women 15-to-44 years old, which rose from 68.7 per 1,000 in 2006 to 69.2 in 2007, dipped to 68.4 in 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); FAMILY (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); MATERNITY LEAVE (76%); HEALTH STATISTICS AGENCIES (75%); STATISTICS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



158 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BREAKINGVIEWS.COM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Driving a Bargain With the Treasury

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley has left less on the table for Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner than Goldman Sachs did. Morgan has bought back its Troubled Asset Relief Program warrants for $950 million, compared with Goldman's $1.1 billion. That makes sense. Morgan Stanley, John Mack's firm, could afford to negotiate a bit harder with the Treasury -- after all, it hasn't made quite as much money out of the crisis. 
 Each bank originally handed the Treasury warrants giving it the right to buy shares worth more than $1.5 billion when the government gave them each a $10 billion bailout. Warrant valuations are complex, and Morgan Stanley's may have been worth, in theory, a bit less than Goldman's because of differences in share price moves since they were issued, or other factors. 
 But Morgan Stanley also negotiated a bit harder with Treasury, while Goldman -- under public scrutiny for its profits and accrued pay -- took the government's opening offer, even though it was far higher than the firm had proposed paying. 
 It's faint praise to suggest that Morgan Stanley could afford to drive a modestly harder bargain because it hasn't done so well out of the crisis. But Goldman may well have felt that pushing for an even slightly lower price would worsen its public relations problems. 
 Morgan Stanley says that after interest on its now-repaid TARP funds is added to the warrant payment, taxpayers made a 20 percent annualized return on their investment. As far as optics go, that puts it in the same psychological box as the 23 percent Goldman says it delivered. 
 In a sense that's the wrong way around. Both firms were briefly in serious danger, but Morgan Stanley was first in line and therefore arguably the riskier investment for the government. But for now the firm isn't looking in quite such robust health as Goldman. Perhaps that entitles it to deliver a slightly less profuse token of thanks.
 Shaking Up Trade
 World trade patterns may be in for a shake-up. A new free trade pact to be signed Friday between Korea and India, phasing out tariffs on most goods over time, represents only a partial market opening. But it could bring major trade growth between the two economies. It shows Korea has options beyond a stalled deal with the United States, and that India remains open to expanding its trade. 
 Bilateral trade between the countries currently totals $15.6 billion, a substantial sum but less than 1 percent of their combined gross domestic product. The agreement is expected to increase trade by an additional $3.3 billion, a fairly modest goal. It is phased in only over time and excludes most of both countries' agricultural sectors, thus avoiding political problems but reducing its potential benefits. 
 Nevertheless, the agreement could be important. Korea, as a high wage manufacturer with excellent technological capabilities, has in the past seen its companies invest in low-wage manufacturing and assembly operations in China. That becomes increasingly uneconomical as Chinese wages rise; it also risks turning the Korean economy into a satellite of China's. 
 By contrast, India offers Korea an equally large reservoir of labor at lower cost, with high skill levels in some areas. A reduction of import duties should make investments in Indian manufacturing operations more viable. 
 For India, a trade deal with Korea offers the chance to access cutting-edge technology from a partner that presents little economic threat and no conceivable strategic threat. 
 If the two governments foster the bilateral relationship, trade and mutual investment could grow rapidly. Initially, the principal beneficiaries are expected to be Korean auto parts manufacturers and Indian service companies, but the benefits of cooperation could soon spread far beyond those sectors. 
 There are also political advantages for both sides. The deal demonstrates to Congress, which has delayed approval of the United States-Korea free trade agreement for two years, that continued stonewalling can impose economic costs, as Korean companies form alternative links elsewhere.
 India's involvement shows that in spite of its large budget deficit and somewhat anti-market economic policy, the country remains ready to open its economy further to ensure that its recent rapid growth continues. 
 Curried kimchi sounds like an acquired taste. But both parties may come to find it delicious.
 RICHARD BEALES and MARTIN HUTCHINSON
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Mack of Morgan Stanley was in a better position to bargain with Treasury than Goldman Sachs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (85%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); AGRICULTURE (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



159 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 328 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Fall, Beating Estimates

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The government said Thursday that the number of newly laid-off workers seeking unemployment insurance fell last week.
 The Labor Department said that initial claims for jobless benefits dropped to a seasonally adjusted 550,000 for the week ended Aug. 1, down from an upwardly revised figure of 588,000. 
 That was much lower than analysts' estimates of 580,000, according to a survey by Thomson Reuters. The four-week average of claims, which smoothes out fluctuations, dropped to 555,250, its lowest level since late January.
 The tally of people continuing to claim benefits rose 69,000, however, to 6.3 million, the department said, after dropping for three consecutive weeks. The continuing claims data lags initial claims by a week.
 Many economists expect initial claims to continue to decline this year.
 ''Claims should fall over the next few months, as the economy appears more or less to have stabilized,'' Ian Shepherdson, chief United States economist at High Frequency Economics, said in a note to clients before the Labor Department's report.
 When emergency extensions of unemployment are included, the total rolls climbed to a record 9.35 million for the week ended July 18, the most recent data available. Congress has added up to 53 additional weeks of benefits on top of the 26 typically provided by the states.
 The increase in the number of people continuing to claim benefits is a sign that jobs remain scarce and the unemployed are having difficulty finding new work.
 Despite the improvement, weekly jobless claims remain far above the 300,000 to 350,000 that analysts say is consistent with a healthy economy. New claims last fell below 300,000 in early 2007.
 On Thursday, many retail chains reported sluggish July sales as consumers proved reluctant to spend. Chains at malls, like Macy's Inc. and Abercrombie & Fitch, were the hardest hit as shoppers focused on necessities.
 Among states, Ohio had the biggest increase in unemployment claims.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A job fair in Washington on Thursday, as the population continuing to claim jobless aid grew.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); RETAILERS (68%)

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%); ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (81%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); ANF (NYSE) (81%); AFT (FRA) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



160 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1028 words

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
ART MAKES A PLAY
 Off the Gridiron
 Art and football may not be obvious bedfellows, but all those sports fans on their way to grab a beer at the new $1.15 billion Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex., will get an unexpected eyeful: at the top of a staircase is a monumental painting that spells ''WIN'' in giant letters; a panel above a concession stand depicts a solar system in which the planets take the form of balls of popcorn, clovers and leaves orbiting around a yellow rose. 
 These are just two of 14 site-specific works created by big-name artists -- like Olafur Eliasson, Franz Ackermann, Mel Bochner, Daniel Buren, Matthew Ritchie, Dave Muller and Lawrence Weiner -- that are being installed throughout the stadium. The team's owner, Jerry Jones, and his wife, Gene, say it is perhaps a first for any sports arena in the United States. 
 The Dallas Cowboys Art Program is not a one-shot initiative, but is to continue with more installations and commissions. The first works are being installed this week in locations with the highest pedestrian traffic, including four of the entrances, two staircases and two pedestrian ramps as well as the main concession areas. 
 ''This is a fabulous cutting-edge building, and we thought it needed art,'' Ms. Jones said. Although not a collector, she is an art lover who, along with her husband; their daughter, Charlotte Anderson; and a niece, Melissa Meeks, became involved in the project. But not being art professionals, they turned to a group of people who are. Michael Auping, chief curator of the Modern Art Museum of Fort Worth; Charles Wylie, the contemporary art curator at the Dallas Museum of Art; and two Texas collectors, Howard Rachofsky and Gayle Stoffel, make up an art council overseeing the program. The Joneses also brought in Mary Zlot, a San Francisco art adviser. 
 ''There wasn't a great demand for a 65-year-old quarterback,'' Mr. Rachofsky said when asked why he agreed to become involved with the art program. He said that when he was first approached by the Jones family, he quickly realized that ''for artists to have work seen by millions of people a year is pretty exciting.'' 
 MORE AVEDON AT MOMA
 Photography has long been important to the Museum of Modern Art. Not only was it the first art museum to have a formal photography department, but over the years it has also built a rich collection, which continues to grow. This week it announced two separate photography acquisitions: 39 images by Richard Avedon and a trove of nearly 60 19th-century photographs. 
 The Avedon photographs -- a part purchase and part gift from the photographer's foundation, which was in place well before his death in 2004 -- spans nearly his entire career. There are well-known portraits of personalities like Marilyn Monroe and Marcel Duchamp, Andy Warhol and Twiggy. There are also nine photographs, first shown at MoMA in 1974 and taken from 1969 to 1973, that chronicled Avedon's father, Jacob Israel Avedon, in declining health. 
 ''We've had it on our list for a long time to improve our Avedon photographs,'' said Peter Galassi, chief curator of photography at the museum. 
 The second acquisition is a bequest from Suzanne Winsberg, a collector who lived in New York and Paris and who died last year. During the 1970s, as the market for photography began to take off in Paris, Ms. Winsberg began putting together a collection of 19th-century images including six salted-paper prints by Nadar and views of the forest of Fontainebleau by Le Gray. ''Some of these great works are things you couldn't get for love or money today,'' Mr. Galassi said. 
 Highlights from both collections will go on view at the museum Friday through March 22. BACK TO IMPRESSIONISTS 
 During these tough economic times collectors' tastes have turned warm and fuzzy. Once again they are favoring pretty Impressionist canvases over more severe modern and contemporary works that were all the rage just a few seasons ago. At the New York auctions in May, for instance, among the strongest sellers at Sotheby's was a group of paintings from the estate of Marian Kingsland Frelinghuysen, an heir of Henry O. and Louisine Waldron Elder Havemeyer, who left part of their collection -- prime examples of masters like Degas, Cassatt, Courbet, Manet and Monet -- to the Metropolitan Museum of Art after Mrs. Havemeyer died in 1929. 
 Betting that tastes won't have changed in six months, Sotheby's and Christie's competed for the chance to sell another group of classic Impressionist canvases that also come with a pristine provenance. 
 Sotheby's won this property too: a small collection of paintings that had once belonged to Paul Durand-Ruel, the Paris dealer who died in 1922. Durand-Ruel ran a gallery where he championed the Impressionist painters way before they were fashionable. In 1886 he decided to test the emerging American market by organizing the first Impressionist show in New York, at the National Academy of Design. The show was such a success that he established a branch of Durand-Ruel in New York the next year. 
 The paintings Sotheby's is selling on Nov. 4 have remained in Durand-Ruel's family. Carrying a total estimate of $8.9 million to $12.6 million, the group includes three Renoirs, two Pissarros and two Sisleys. 
 ''Any painting that has a Durand-Ruel provenance is endowed with the imprimatur of quality,'' said Philip Hook, Sotheby's senior director of Impressionist and modern art in Europe. ''He was the root of everything.'' 
 Among the best of the works is Renoir's ''Woman in a White Hat,'' from a series of young women he painted in the early 1890s. It is expected to fetch $2.5 million to $3.5 million. There is also an urban landscape by Pissarro, painted in Rouen: ''The Boieldieu Bridge and the Orleans Train Station, Rouen, Sunlight'' was executed in the summer of 1898, four years after Monet completed his famous series of the Gothic cathedral there. It is estimated at $2 million to $3 million. 
 ''These sorts of pictures are as popular as ever,'' Mr. Hook said. ''They are the perennial blue chip and in difficult times people turn to the Impressionists.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Yellow rose as sun: Partial rendering of ''Solar Arrangement,'' a mural by Dave Muller at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Tex.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BLUM & POE, LOS ANGELES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ART COLLECTING (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); ATHLETES (78%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (76%)

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



161 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 155 words

HEADLINE: Profit at Comcast Increases 53%, Largely on Higher Prices

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Comcast, the cable TV systems operator, posted a 53 percent increase in second-quarter profit on Thursday, helped by higher prices and increased customer spending on video and Internet services. 
 But the recession slowed subscriber growth significantly and local advertising remained depressed.
 Comcast, based in Philadelphia, earned $967 million, or 33 cents a share, in the quarter that ended June 30, compared with $632 million, or 21 cents a share, in the same quarter a year ago.
 Revenue rose by 4.5 percent, to $8.94 billion, from $8.55 billion, helped by more customer sign-ups and higher prices.
 The performance exceeded the estimates of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, who were expecting earnings of 26 cents a share and revenue of $8.86 billion, on average.
 Comcast resumed its share buyback program in the quarter, spending $215 million to repurchase 15.5 million shares. Shares closed down a penny at $15.05. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (87%); POLLS & SURVEYS (86%)

COMPANY: COMCAST CORP (94%)

TICKER: CMCSA (NASDAQ) (94%); CCV (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



162 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Senators Weigh Postal Service's Future

BYLINE: By ANDREA FULLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senators expressed mounting concern Thursday about the worsening finances of the United States Postal Service, but fretted over proposals to save money by cutting service.
 The Postal Service lost $2.4 billion in the latest fiscal quarter, in addition to $2.3 billion in the first half of the fiscal year that began Oct. 1. Despite billions in cost reductions, the Postal Service projects a $7 billion loss for the year. 
 The service has said that it will not be able to make legally required contributions to finance future retiree health benefits. The prepayments are a major drain on cash flow.
 The Senate Homeland Security Committee approved a bill by a vote of 11-1 last week that would give the Postal Service temporary relief from making full payments to the benefits fund. The legislation would also increase the Postal Service's authority to borrow. A bill altering how the Postal Service finances health benefits was approved by a House committee last month.
 ''Unless we apply some tough medicine here and we do it working together, this dizzying downward spiral for the U.S. Postal Service could become a death spiral,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, at a hearing of a Homeland Security subcommittee Thursday.
 Postmaster General John E. Potter is recommending the closure of some postal facilities, as well as ending Saturday deliveries. Going to a five-day week would save more than $3 billion, according to Mr. Potter. 
 The Postal Service expects to handle at least 27 billion fewer pieces of mail in 2009, on top of a drop of 9 billion last year, when it lost $2.8 billion.
 ''I think that we've reached a breaking point with the recession and that's why we're seeking to go from six- to five-day delivery,'' Mr. Potter said. 
 Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware and chairman of the subcommittee, said that the health benefits bill was ''not a silver bullet.'' Several senators said that eliminating a day of delivery was not off the table, but did not offer concrete proposals on how to make that change. 
 ''Often Congress puts up roadblocks whenever the Postal Service mentions that it might be time to close or consolidate some facilities,'' Mr. Carper said. ''We just can't afford to do that anymore.'' 
 Mr. Lieberman said that members of Congress were opposed to closing postal facilities and eliminating a day of delivery but said, ''I fear that we'll probably have to do both of those.''
 Several members, however, have noted their constituents' opposition to the closure of postal units in their districts. Currently, the post office is considering almost 700 postal stations and branches for consolidation or closure, though not all of them will close.
 ''The Postal Service cannot expect to gain more business, which it desperately needs, if it is reducing service,'' said Susan M. Collins, Republican of Maine. 
 In an interview after the hearing, Mr. Potter said the Postal Service was working on a proposal to be filed with the Postal Regulatory Commission this year that would outline five-day delivery. He said he also planned to seek permission from Congress to pursue other lines of revenue generation besides mail.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTAL SERVICE (96%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CLOSINGS (86%); WORK WEEK (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); APPROVALS (75%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%)

COMPANY: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (95%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: TOM CARPER (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



163 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: The Town Hall Mob

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
David Brooks is off today.

 BODY:
There's a famous Norman Rockwell painting titled ''Freedom of Speech,'' depicting an idealized American town meeting. The painting, part of a series illustrating F.D.R.'s ''Four Freedoms,'' shows an ordinary citizen expressing an unpopular opinion. His neighbors obviously don't like what he's saying, but they're letting him speak his mind. 
 That's a far cry from what has been happening at recent town halls, where angry protesters -- some of them, with no apparent sense of irony, shouting ''This is America!'' -- have been drowning out, and in some cases threatening, members of Congress trying to talk about health reform. 
 Some commentators have tried to play down the mob aspect of these scenes, likening the campaign against health reform to the campaign against Social Security privatization back in 2005. But there's no comparison. I've gone through many news reports from 2005, and while anti-privatization activists were sometimes raucous and rude, I can't find any examples of congressmen shouted down, congressmen hanged in effigy, congressmen surrounded and followed by taunting crowds. 
 And I can't find any counterpart to the death threats at least one congressman has received.
 So this is something new and ugly. What's behind it?
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, has compared the scenes at health care town halls to the ''Brooks Brothers riot'' in 2000 -- the demonstration that disrupted the vote count in Miami and arguably helped send George W. Bush to the White House. Portrayed at the time as local protesters, many of the rioters were actually G.O.P. staffers flown in from Washington.
 But Mr. Gibbs is probably only half right. Yes, well-heeled interest groups are helping to organize the town hall mobs. Key organizers include two Astroturf (fake grass-roots) organizations: FreedomWorks, run by the former House majority leader Dick Armey, and a new organization called Conservatives for Patients' Rights. 
 The latter group, by the way, is run by Rick Scott, the former head of Columbia/HCA, a for-profit hospital chain. Mr. Scott was forced out of that job amid a fraud investigation; the company eventually pleaded guilty to charges of overbilling state and federal health plans, paying $1.7 billion -- yes, that's ''billion'' -- in fines. You can't make this stuff up.
 But while the organizers are as crass as they come, I haven't seen any evidence that the people disrupting those town halls are Florida-style rent-a-mobs. For the most part, the protesters appear to be genuinely angry. The question is, what are they angry about? 
 There was a telling incident at a town hall held by Representative Gene Green, D-Tex. An activist turned to his fellow attendees and asked if they ''oppose any form of socialized or government-run health care.'' Nearly all did. Then Representative Green asked how many of those present were on Medicare. Almost half raised their hands.
 Now, people who don't know that Medicare is a government program probably aren't reacting to what President Obama is actually proposing. They may believe some of the disinformation opponents of health care reform are spreading, like the claim that the Obama plan will lead to euthanasia for the elderly. (That particular claim is coming straight from House Republican leaders.) But they're probably reacting less to what Mr. Obama is doing, or even to what they've heard about what he's doing, than to who he is.
 That is, the driving force behind the town hall mobs is probably the same cultural and racial anxiety that's behind the ''birther'' movement, which denies Mr. Obama's citizenship. Senator Dick Durbin has suggested that the birthers and the health care protesters are one and the same; we don't know how many of the protesters are birthers, but it wouldn't be surprising if it's a substantial fraction. 
 And cynical political operators are exploiting that anxiety to further the economic interests of their backers.
 Does this sound familiar? It should: it's a strategy that has played a central role in American politics ever since Richard Nixon realized that he could advance Republican fortunes by appealing to the racial fears of working-class whites.
 Many people hoped that last year's election would mark the end of the ''angry white voter'' era in America. Indeed, voters who can be swayed by appeals to cultural and racial fear are a declining share of the electorate.
 But right now Mr. Obama's backers seem to lack all conviction, perhaps because the prosaic reality of his administration isn't living up to their dreams of transformation. Meanwhile, the angry right is filled with a passionate intensity.
 And if Mr. Obama can't recapture some of the passion of 2008, can't inspire his supporters to stand up and be heard, health care reform may well fail. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); PRIVATIZATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RIOTS (75%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SOCIAL SECURITY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (65%); HOSPITALS (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (64%); FINES & PENALTIES (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: GENE GREEN (53%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%); RICK SCOTT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



164 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: New License Law in Florida Divides Shore Anglers

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

DATELINE: KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. 

 BODY:
One of the few things Eddy Corea enjoys since being laid off 18 months ago is fishing from the shore. He considers it a human right, free and natural, like breathing. 
 ''It should be in the Constitution,'' he said, before dropping his line into Biscayne Bay on a recent sultry afternoon. 
 So, no, he was not aware of a new state law requiring that those who fish from the shore buy a license for $9. And no, Mr. Corea does not plan to pay. Like many other rod-and-reelers in Florida this week, he said he would not be part of an effort to muddy the once-free waters with government regulation. 
 The people at the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission say they have heard it all before. The 1989 law that established licenses for saltwater and freshwater fishing did not include onshore anglers because state lawmakers wanted to keep some of the fun free. 
 But this year, the federal government forced Florida's hand. Without the new licensing program, a new federal requirement that all anglers be registered would have cost people like Mr. Corea $15 to $25. Even worse, said Henry Cabbage, a spokesman for the state fish and wildlife agency, the money would have gone to Washington. 
 Now, all proceeds go to the state for research and fisheries management.
 Not that money is the point. The commission estimates that the new licenses will bring Florida $900,000 in fees the first year, as well as $860,000 in matching money from Washington, which is nothing to toss back. But officials speak mainly of principle. Mr. Corea's appeal to freedom is competing with a demand for fairness. 
 ''I grew up in Florida in an era when there was no such thing as a fishing license and everyone thought the ocean was inexhaustible,'' Mr. Cabbage said. ''Well, the ocean is exhaustible, and even though they're fishing from shore, they are taking from the resource. It's just a matter of what's right; they should have to put something back.''
 Environmentalists and many commercial fishermen tend to agree.
 Fish have proven to be a fragile resource worldwide, and here, they are a pillar of the economy. State research shows that fishing brings in $7.5 billion annually, more than in any other state. Each year, 2.7 million people try their luck in Florida's waters, often with success: 700 world-record catches have come from the state.
 And some members of the shoreline crowd do see the licensing logic. Just a few feet down the walkway from Mr. Corea, in Bill Baggs Cape Florida State Park on Key Biscayne, Wilber Pozo, 29, threw his line in, hoping to catch a sizable snook. He said that he had a saltwater license ($17 for state residents) that covered him onshore, and that others should just accept the fees as a small price to pay for pleasure. 
 ''There are rules and regulations for a reason,'' Mr. Pozo said. ''You have to do it.''
 Fishing from the jetty at the southern tip of Miami Beach, Claudio Cruz, 60, said he supported the new license, too, on one condition: if it helped the authorities keep drunks and hooligans from where he fished, so as not to distract him from the bikini-clad women doing yoga. 
 Actually, the money is serving the sea. By helping scientists track how many people fish, what they catch and when, Mr. Cabbage said, the commission can do a better job of protecting the marine ecosystem. 
 He acknowledged that compliance was an issue. The state has 2,276 miles of tidal shoreline that needs policing. Since the licenses became available on July 15, 5,835 people have paid up, less than 10 percent of those estimated to fish from shore, and it is unclear how many more will bother. 
 For now, those caught without a license receive a warning from fish and wildlife agents. But eventually violators will have to pay $50, plus the cost of the license. 
 Making enforcement more challenging, there are exceptions for those under 16 or over 65; members of the military stationed in Florida; those using lines without reels; and, from the shoreline only, for people on Medicaid. 
 Mr. Corea, 40, who used to work in tech support for Circuit City, said the exceptions were not enough. Fishing from the shore is ''an American pastime,'' he said. ''It should be free, at least until the economy gets better.'' 
 Michael Brown agreed, describing his regular visits to the South Beach jetty as a relief from life's stresses. Recalling the thrill of seeing his 9-year-old son catch a barracuda a few months ago, he said: ''What else do you have in life? You take out the garbage, you walk the dog, you work.'' 
 He stood on a slab of granite at sunset, enjoying the inhale and exhale of casting and reeling in a red shiny lure. He had not caught a thing, but as another cast zipped to the water, he said, ''This is what you need to get by.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A father and son, Ralando Sanchez and Ralando Jr., at South Point Park in South Beach, Fla. A new state law requires buying a license to fish from the shore.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FRANCIS McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT FISHING (91%); WILDLIFE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); LICENSES & PERMITS (89%); FISHERIES (89%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); FISHING LAW (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (73%); STATE PARKS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



165 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: The Performing Arts Left a Forwarding Address: the Berkshires

BYLINE: By CHARLES ISHERWOOD

 BODY:
THREE THEATERS
 The Williamstown Theater Festival in the northwest corner of Massachusetts tends to be the starriest of the major Berkshire summer companies, but the three major companies closer to Manhattan, nestled in the southwest corner of the state, offer some appealing choices for the remainder of the summer. 
 At the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge, Mass., the intriguingly timely revival of Neil Simon's 1971 comedy ''The Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' with zesty performances by Stephen DeRosa and Veanne Cox as a Manhattan couple trying to stay afloat in the midst of an economic meltdown (sound familiar?), ends its run on Sunday. The last production on the company's main stage is a revival of Ibsen's ''Ghosts'' in a new version from the director Anders Cato, a Berkshire Theater Festival regular, and James Leverett. On the smaller Unicorn Stage the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright David Auburn (''Proof'') puts down the pen -- well, closes the laptop, perhaps -- to direct a new play, ''Sick,'' by Zayd Dohrn, a dark comedy about a mother who goes to loony lengths to protect her children from the world's contaminants.
 The Barrington Stage Company, with its gleaming new theater in Pittsfield, Mass., concludes its main-stage season with a revival of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' that gives Marin Mazzie, a performer best known for musical theater, a chance to tackle one of the most demanding female roles in the American theater. Ms. Mazzie, who starred in ''Ragtime'' and ''Kiss Me, Kate'' on Broadway, will play Tennessee Williams's doomed Blanche DuBois opposite the Stanley Kowalski of Christopher Innvar, a gifted classical actor who appeared with Ms. Mazzie's ''Ragtime'' co-star Audra McDonald in the recent Broadway revival of ''110 in the Shade.'' Julianne Boyd, the company's leader, directs the production. 
 If you missed John Douglas Thompson's extraordinary performance in the title role of Shakespeare's ''Othello'' at Theater for a New Audience last spring, you have another chance to catch it courtesy of Shakespeare & Company at the Founders' Theater in Lenox, Mass. Mr. Thompson first undertook the role for this troupe in 2008, and he returns to it again in a new production directed by Tony Simotes that runs through Sept. 6. Mr. Thompson appears simultaneously in the company's revival of the 1986 John Patrick Shanley play ''The Dreamer Examines His Pillow'' on its smaller stage, the Bernstein Theater. CHARLES ISHERWOOD 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Onstage in Pittsfield, Mass: Marin Mazzie and Christopher Innvar in ''A Streetcar Named Desire.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN SPRAGUE) MAPw 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (92%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); THEATER (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); MUSICAL THEATER (73%); WRITERS (68%); MUSIC (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (55%)

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE & CO (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (63%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



166 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: A Captain at the Helm Of His Summer Share

BYLINE: By JOANNE KAUFMAN

 BODY:
SINCE Kate Ryan met her beau, Garrett Baird, last fall, she's been hearing (and hearing) about his summer share house in Manasquan, N.J. 
 ''On our first date,'' Ms. Ryan, 26, said, ''he told me about his beach friends and how wonderful every summer is.'' He also told Ms. Ryan that he was known to his shore cronies as the captain.
 For the last five summers Mr. Baird, 32, the director of product management for a software company in Wilmington, Del., has been head of each house he has rented in Manasquan with groups of 8 to 17 people. 
 While some might take on such a thankless chore in exchange for, say, the largest or most luxurious bedroom, or perhaps a reduction in rent or a free ride, such advantages don't seem to be what motivates Mr. Baird (though he does get his own room). ''I just enjoy it,'' he said. ''Putting it all together is very satisfying for me. I'm inherently an organizer and a leader.''
 Nuno Poitevin, 31, a mortgage consultant who's been part of the group for the past three years, enforces the house rules in his capacity as sergeant at arms. ''There are different nationalities and sexualities and occupations and age groups and income levels in the house,'' Mr. Poitevin said, ''and Garrett just sees it as a great melting pot. He knows how to bring it all together and how to get everybody to agree to an evening's activity or a new purchase for the house.'' 
 When the rent has increased beyond the group's desire to pay, necessitating a hunt for a new place, Mr. Baird has been on the front lines, scouting for properties with the features his housemates deem necessities: an outdoor shower, a large backyard and access to a tennis court. This year, home to 10 full-share and 7 half-share members from Philadelphia; Hoboken, N.J.; and Morristown, N.J., is a brick bungalow that makes up in size -- five bedrooms, a living room and a sunroom -- for what it lacks in amenities like a dishwasher, a washing machine and a dryer.
 When the group has contracted, Mr. Baird has been on the case, drumming up recruits. He's put up posts on Craigslist and on a Hoboken community Web site and arranged meetings at bars and restaurants to help figure out which prospects would fit in with the core group of young urban professionals. ''We try to get a 50-50 split between male and female,'' he said.
 To say that Mr. Baird takes his responsibilities seriously is like describing Dom Perignon as a fizzy drink. These include collecting each participant's share of the $25,000 rent, a bit of a rough ride this year because of the economy. ''Sometimes I'll jigger the amount a little to get people to pay up,'' he said. ''I may say, 'The full share for anyone who hasn't paid yet will be a hundred bucks less if I get your check by Friday.' '' He makes up the shortfall by adding another half-share member.
 There's also the annual purchase of an inflatable pool (it swims six); the creation of the social calendar (key events: an August white party and the annual captain's roast) and the codification of the house bylaws. Chief among them are the rules pertaining to guests. Those cleared in advance have a choice of three couches. Unexpected, unannounced overnight visitors? ''Only in your own bed, please,'' the captain decrees. 
 One of his biggest days, Ms. Ryan said, is going shopping with a slush fund of a few thousand dollars that house members contribute to cover utilities, cable and basic kitchen supplies. ''He says he's perfected his buying skills,'' she said. ''He knows exactly how much mustard and ketchup and how many cases of Red Bull and water to get.''
 Mr. Baird earned his stripes as a leader during his term as president of his Cornell fraternity. The challenges of running a summer share house and the Pi Kappa Phi house ''are remarkably similar,'' he said, perhaps thinking of the Kegerator, a beer dispenser ''that we keep full at all times.'' He added, ''I'll generally step up when we need to refill it.''
 He had his first taste of a group house eight years ago when he had a quarter-share in a summer rental in Sea Girt, N.J. ''That got me interested in the whole thing,'' said Mr. Baird, who learned from that experience that he was more an esprit de corps kind of guy than a proponent of every man for himself -- or, as the lodgings industry might put it, more American plan than European plan.
 THE meeting came to order precisely on schedule, precisely as tradition dictated: 11 a.m. on the Saturday of Memorial Day weekend in the rental's living room. As he had for the previous four years Mr. Baird presided with the aid of Mr. Poitevin and Jeff Budney, the social director. First order of business: roll call. The 17 housemates stood up, introduced themselves, and at Mr. Baird's urging, talked about their hopes and dreams for the summer. 
 ''Everyone kind of giggled and laughed at everyone else's answers,'' Mr. Baird said a few weeks later, ''and that kind of broke the ice.'' His own hopes for the summer? Pretty much what they've been since he began answering to ''captain.'' ''The thing that gets me most excited,' he said, ''is seeing a diverse group come together to enjoy themselves and each other.''
 This summer may be his last hurrah. He recently celebrated his 32nd birthday, his romance with Ms. Ryan is growing more serious, and it hasn't escaped his notice that the Manasquan bar scene is more the province of people in their 20s. 
 ''You have to grow up and grow out of this at some point,'' Mr. Baird said. ''I think life is going to be taking me away from this. But a lot of people in the group want to continue with the house, so the question is: Who's going to step up and take my place as captain?'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: August 11, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A picture in the Escapes pages on Friday with an article about Garrett Baird, who organizes an annual summer-share rental house in Manasquan, N.J., was published in error. The photograph showed a different rental in the same area, not the one used by Mr. Baird and his friends.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mr. Baird is known as the captain at his summer share house because of the many duties he performs.
 This five-bedroom house in Manasquan, N.J., is the summer home for a group of shareholders led by Garrett Baird.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC STEINER/AGENCY NEW JERSEY, FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); TENNIS (61%); SPORTS (61%); RESTAURANTS (60%); DRINKING PLACES (60%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); DELAWARE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



167 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 5248 words

HEADLINE: THE LISTINGS

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.comart. 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'THE TREASURE OF ULYSSES DAVIS,' through Sept. 6. Ulysses Davis (1914-1990) was a Savannah, Ga., barber who whittled and carved wooden sculptures in his shop when business was slow. Organized by the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, this show is by far the largest presentation of Mr. Davis's sculpture to be seen outside Savannah and the first to reveal the full scope of his imagination. His best-known works, carvings of historical figures, take a backseat to hybrid beasts and hydra-headed figures. It makes clear that he wasn't just a patriotic folk artist, or an African-American artist affirming his heritage, or an inward-looking, visionary artist. He was all of these, which is to say that no single cliche of ''outsider'' art quite fits him. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan , (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. 20090806
 (Karen Rosenberg) 
 ASIA SOCIETY: YANG FUDONG: 'SEVEN INTELLECTUALS IN A BAMBOO FOREST,' through Sept. 13. Presented in its five-hour entirety for the first time in a United States museum, Mr. Yang's hypnotic, five-part black-and-white movie, ''Seven Intellectuals in a Bamboo Forest,'' tracks the dreamlike meanderings of a group of fashion-model-pretty young people, from a breathtaking mountain summit to a busy city where the disjunctive imagery becomes increasingly surrealistic and comical. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street , (212) 288-6400, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)20090806
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIGHT OF THE SUFIS: THE MYSTICAL ARTS OF ISLAM,' through Sept. 6. ''What's in your head -- throw it away! What's in your hand -- give it up! Whatever happens -- don't turn away from it.'' That's how a 10th-century Persian spiritual master defined the Islamic devotional practice known as Sufism. Countless other definitions have been proposed since, almost as many as for Islam itself. And variety -- paintings, ceramics, mosque lamps, books -- is what you find in this tiny, exquisite show in the Brooklyn Museum's newly reinstalled Islamic galleries. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)20090806
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: PATRICIA CRONIN: 'HARRIET HOSMER, LOST AND FOUND,' through Jan. 24. The contemporary New York artist Patricia Cronin channels the life and art of the 19th-century American sculptor Harriet Hosmer (1830-1908) in a show of watercolor depictions of Hosmer's works, both those that survived and those no longer traceable. Ms. Cronin has also published the watercolors -- including her ghost images of missing works -- in a scholarly book that stands as a Hosmer catalogue raisonne. The result is a complex package: a total work of art that is a historical document of the careers of two artists and a homage by one woman to another. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Cotter)20090806
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'REFLECTIONS ON THE ELECTRIC MIRROR: NEW FEMINIST VIDEO,' through Jan. 10. Q: What is feminist video? A: A good way to reduce overcrowding in museums. Unless, that is, you are referring to this entertaining exhibition of recent videos by nine artists featuring the creators themselves as performers. Works by Klara Liden, Kate Gilmore, Cathy Begien and the team of Harry Dodge and Stanya Kahn are variously funny, dark and poetic. Starring in antique-looking, silent-movie-style commercials, Shannon Plumb is a wonderfully agile physical comedian. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090806
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'YINKA SHONIBARE MBE,' through Sept. 20. This is an important show for Mr. Shonibare, a British-Nigerian artist who emerged in the late 1990s and was made a member of the Order of the British Empire in 2005. His sculptural tableaus, which revolve around Victorian-era costumes made from 20th-century fabrics associated with Africa, are riotously colorful; their themes of frivolity and excess feel current. But with few exceptions, Mr. Shonibare serves his post-colonialism straight up. The show is rescued by smart integration with the permanent collection: a kind of scavenger hunt through the museum's American period rooms, where Mr. Shonibare's figures of children at play inhabit historical settings. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park , (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)20090806
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM: 'FASHIONING FELT,' through Sept. 7. Tribute is paid to the world's oldest textile (no loom required) in all its sturdy, cosseting, beautiful, shape-shifting, dye-friendly majesty. The show includes contemporary furnishings, garments, jewelry and room dividers, as well as two large installation works. The felt runs from raw to cooked -- that is, furry to gossamer -- and in some of the most intriguing instances it is mated with lacquer, plastic, LED lights, metal or coral beads, as well as silk, linen or cotton. There are episodes of frivolity. A few earlier works -- including a Mongolian runner and a saddle blanket -- reunite function and decoration and distort familiar motifs in wonderful ways. 2 East 91st Street , (212) 849-8400, cooperhewitt.org. (Roberta Smith)20090806
 FRICK COLLECTION: 'PORTRAITS, PASTELS, PRINTS: WHISTLER IN THE FRICK COLLECTION,' through Aug. 23. This summer's refurbishment of the Frick's East Gallery, where four full-length portraits by James Abbott McNeill Whistler (1834-1903) normally hang, has occasioned a small celebration of Whistler's art. The four portraits have been moved into the Oval Room, where they are joined by a seascape; etchings and pastels of Venice are on view in the Cabinet Room. Both displays reinforce a suspicion about Whistler: that despite his oft-professed regard for the abstract qualities of music -- all those ''symphonies,'' ''arrangements'' and ''nocturnes'' -- he had a rare talent for conveying specific places and personalities. 1 East 70th Street, at Fifth Avenue , (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)20090806
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'THE SWEENEY DECADE: ACQUISITIONS OF THE 1959 INAUGURAL,' through Sept. 2. What did they get, and when did they get it? This perennial yardstick of a museum's sensitivity to new art is quite useful in this show. All 24 paintings and sculptures date from the 1950s and were acquired by the Guggenheim within a year or so of their making, and many were part of the first exhibition in Frank Lloyd Wright's spiral building. They constitute a mixture of the good, the bad and the innocuous, as well as European, Asian and American. But they also attest to the vision of James Johnson Sweeney, the Guggenheim's second director, who steered the museum away from its founding obsession with ''nonobjective painting'' and into the broad, challenging terrain of art after 1950. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street , (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)20090806
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'AVEDON FASHION: 1944-2000,' through Sept. 20. The first museum retrospective devoted to Richard Avedon's fashion photography exudes a contagious joie de vivre. With postwar Paris as a stage set, Avedon made fashion photography new by adding movement and then narrative to his images, along with ironic self-awareness and a buoyant exuberance. The best of his early images are as perfect as the best work of Jackson Pollock or Jasper Johns from this period and as profoundly representative of it. 1133 Sixth Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street , (212) 857-0000, www.icp.org. (Smith)20090806
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'THEY CALLED ME MAYER JULY: PAINTED MEMORIES OF A JEWISH CHILDHOOD IN POLAND BEFORE THE HOLOCAUST,' through Oct. 1. Introducing the reluctant painter and accidental memoirist Mayer Kirschenblatt, now 92, who has devoted the last two decades to documenting life between the wars in and around the provincial city of Opatow (Apt in Yiddish), Poland. Wrought with irresistible detail and folk-art dispatch, the paintings begin with his mother's kitchen and reflect an omnivorous curiosity about everyday everything, aided by an apparently photographic memory. Labels pick up where the paintings leave off; words and images combine in a marvel of a book accomplished in collaboration with the artist's daughter, a folklorist whose career choice was shaped by her father's stories. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, , (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Smith)20090806
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'AFGHANISTAN: HIDDEN TREASURES FROM THE NATIONAL MUSEUM, KABUL,' through Sept. 20. The 200 pre-Islamic objects in this important and moving show date from the Bronze Age to the first century A.D. They dropped from sight during the country's recent turmoil, which was deadly for both people and artwork alike. Courageous curators were their salvation; the rediscovery of the pieces was a moment of national thanksgiving. Consisting of vessels, sculpture, architectural ornaments, jewelry and furniture decoration made of bronze, stone, glass, ceramic, ivory, gold and gemstone, they attest to an astounding cosmopolitanism and diverse cultural heritage. Once, many trade routes led through Afghanistan, and proof of its former centrality is both dazzling and heartening. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090806
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'FRANCIS BACON: A CENTENARY RETROSPECTIVE,' through Aug. 16. This 66-work survey starts with the stagy existentialism of Bacon's early work (the semihuman fiends, screaming popes, flanks of beef) and proceeds to the effulgent colors, insistent rhythms and true anguish of his grand triptychs and portraits. It suggests that his greatest achievement was his ability to paint convincingly men having sex and sometimes making love. As his hero Picasso had done for men and women, Bacon turned sexual passion into a pictorial event, using paint on canvas with finesse and no small sense of drama, while operating under cover of modernism. For once, the male gaze turned emphatically selfward. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)20090806
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'LIVING LINE: SELECTED INDIAN DRAWINGS FROM THE SUBHASH KAPOOR GIFT,' through Sept. 7. This almost supernaturally beautiful exhibition presents 40 mostly small drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. Rendered with amazing skill, the subjects include bearded aristocrats and bejeweled women; hunting scenes; wild animals and mythic beasts fighting; and gods, goddesses and demons ascending and descending. The art of drawing does not get much better than this. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090806
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2010. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)20090806
 METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'ROXY PAINE ON THE ROOF: MAELSTROM,' through Oct. 25. An awesome spectacle awaits visitors to the museum's roof garden: a gnarly thicket of trees and branches extending 130 feet from one end of the open-air deck to the other and rising 29 feet overhead. It looks as if a tornado had ripped through Central Park and deposited its gleanings here -- except that it is all made of shiny metal pipe, as if all that wood had been transformed by someone with a stainless-steel Midas touch. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090806
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'PAGES OF GOLD: MEDIEVAL ILLUMINATIONS FROM THE MORGAN,' through Sept. 13. This quietly compelling show assembles ''orphan'' leaves (illuminated pages separated from medieval manuscripts and sold, individually, to collectors). Organized geographically, the show allows a comparison of illumination styles in England, Italy, Spain and other countries and regions. It also highlights the figures who created and participated in the market for single leaves. They include an Italian abbot, an English art historian and a mysterious artist known as the Spanish Forger. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street , (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)20090806
 MUSEUM OF ARTS AND DESIGN: 'GORD PETERAN: FURNITURE MEETS ITS MAKER,' through Aug. 16. This Canadian furniture maker who is widely admired in craft creates what he calls ''furnitural'' sculpture. He is a consummate technician, and his play with elements of furniture is often amusing and sometimes conceptually provocative. ''Table Made of Wood'' (1999) wittily makes its title literal. It is a side table made by gluing together hundreds of wood scraps, adding up to what is as much a Cubist representation as a functional table. 2 Columbus Circle , (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Johnson)20090806
 MUSEUM OF BIBLICAL ART: 'SCRIPTURE FOR THE EYES: BIBLE ILLUSTRATION IN NETHERLANDISH PRINTS OF THE 16TH CENTURY,' through Sept. 27. Abounding in sex, violence and supernatural happenings, the Bible has been a great source of inspiration for visual artists. This superb show features pieces by some of the biggest names in the history of Western printmaking. Woodcuts and engravings by Lucas van Leyden and Hendrick Goltzius alone would make a visit to the museum worthwhile, but among the 79 works on view there are lots more wildly imaginative and technically amazing feats of printmaking. 1865 Broadway, at 61st Street , (212) 408-1500, mobia.org. (Johnson)20090806
 THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'RON ARAD: NO DISCIPLINE,' through Oct. 19. The first large American survey of this Israeli-born, London-based designer proves some of the virtues but many of the vices of its subtitle. Rambunctious, installed to poor advantage and ultimately inconclusive, it demonstrates with only mediocre results Mr. Arad's ambition to extend the design discipline into architecture and sculpture. There are too many toys for rich people here, along with evidence that when Mr. Arad sticks closest to functional design, he also comes closest to art. You have to set limits to transcend them. (212) 708-9400, moma.org.20090806
 (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'COMPASS IN HAND: SELECTIONS FROM THE JUDITH ROTHSCHILD FOUNDATION CONTEMPORARY DRAWINGS COLLECTION,' through Jan. 4. The Modern's largest gift of drawings -- a windfall of 2,500 works by 650 artists -- started out as a kind of stunt and matured without becoming a triumph. Initially a yearlong shopping binge in pursuit of a ''cross- section'' of drawing at a certain moment, it also tried to fill decades-old gaps in the Modern's drawing collection, often with works by familiar names. These dominate the sampling of the gift: a lackluster exhibition of 354 works by 177 artists that emphasizes the Modern's ambivalence about moving beyond the Minimalism/Post-Minimalist canon, and its tendency to pick big or hot names over truly great drawings. The bottom line? Connoisseurship matters. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090806
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'WHAT WAS GOOD DESIGN? MOOMA'S MESSAGE, 1944-1956,' through Nov. 30. With 102 objects and excellent labels, the Modern explores its role as arbiter of postwar American design, when, channeling the Bauhaus, it deemed good, affordable design a human right. Its campaign included exhibitions titled ''What Is Good Design?,'' design competitions and use of the MoMA seal of approval by selected department stores. Signature items like the Eames storage unit and the Chemex coffee maker mingle with surprises like a back-to-basics chair of string and wood by, of all people, Alexey Brodovitch, Harper's Bazaar's influential art director. The prevailing sense of beauty, restraint and economy is an implicit rebuke to today's inane material excesses. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)20090806
 NEUE GALERIE: 'FOCUS: OSKAR KOKOSCHKA, WORKS FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through Oct. 5. More a taste whetter than a substantial introduction, this exhibition presents six of the Expressionist portraits that made Kokoschka's reputation in the pre-World War I era and about 40 works on paper. The early paintings of eminent Viennese citizens still pack a considerable psychological punch. The gaunt, hollow-eyed ''Martha Hirsch (Dreaming Woman)'' projects an eerie, erotic charm, while her male counterparts resemble zombies and mad professors. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street , (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)20090806
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'LEANDRO ERLICH: SWIMMING POOL,' through Oct. 24. From P.S. 1's first-floor hallway you step onto a wooden deck that surrounds a small, fully equipped swimming pool. Glowing lights built into the aqua walls light up watery depths below the gently churning surface. A flight of stairs leads to a lower level and a magical surprise. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)20090806
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'JONATHAN HOROWITZ: AND/ OR,' through Sept. 14. Andy Warhol's grandchildren, numerous beyond count, have cashed in on his rich and radical legacy to see what further possibilities it might yield. Such is the case with the New York artist Jonathan Horowitz in this smart, crisply edited retrospective. The works evoke the media-saturated art of the 1970s, the neo-Conceptualist consumer art of the 1980s and the identity art of the 1990s, landing in a Never-Neverland era, in which analog is poised to turn to digital, and Doris Day and Paris Hilton have equal currency. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens , (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Cotter)20090806
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'DAN GRAHAM: BEYOND,' through Oct. 11. This beautifully installed retrospective pays tribute to an influential artist who doesn't necessarily call himself that, and it tends to bear him out. Most impressive are a series of early Conceptual artworks involving surgically precise uses of language and magazines; a series of deadpan, Minimalist-inspired photographs of New Jersey architecture; and ''Rock My Religion,'' an imaginative video about the roots of rock 'n' roll. The video installations and walk-in glass-and-mirror pavilions -- admired because they are interactive -- quickly grow tedious or gimmicky. The many artists who claim Mr. Graham as precedent may surpass him, but there is more than one way to be important. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090806
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'SADIE BENNING: PLAY PAUSE,' through Sept. 20. A new stop-action animation by this former film prodigy uses an avalanche of simple, almost naive gouache drawings, sometimes tinted with color, to prowl the margins of urban society. The result is low-key with undercurrents: a picture of the everyday sublime riddled with suggestions of longing, otherness and the difficulties of connection. Solveig Nelson has provided its beautifully accurate (yet largely electronic) soundtrack of city sounds, whether a subway singer or squirrels rifling through a garbage can, people talking in a bar or gates being called in an airport. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)20090806
 WHITNEY MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART: 'CLAES OLDENBURG: EARLY SCULPTURE, DRAWINGS, AND HAPPENINGS FILMS' ANDAND 'CLAES OLDENBURG AND COOSJE VAN BRUGGEN: THE MUSIC ROOM,' through Sept. 6. This pair of exhibitions leans heavily on the Whitney's sizable collection of Oldenburg and Oldenburg/Van Bruggen drawings, some of which were shown in 2002. But they also include newly restored, never-exhibited films of Mr. Oldenburg's Happenings and a major kinetic sculpture, ''Ice Bag -- Scale C'' (1971), brought back to life by conservators. A centralized gallery of early drawings and soft sculptures defines Mr. Oldenburg's epicurean branch of Pop, with works like ''Giant BLT (Bacon, Lettuce and Tomato Sandwich)'' and ''French Fries and Ketchup'' (both 1963), served up on low, platterlike pedestals. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)20090806
 Galleries: Uptown
 BLANCHE LAZZELL: 'WHITE-LINE COLOR WOODCUTS,' through Aug. 14. This show is a wonderful introduction to one of the unsung geniuses of early American modernism, Blanche Lazzell (1878-1956), an artist who perfected the relatively new technique of white-line woodcut prints into a truly, if modestly, visionary art. The elimination of black lines between the woodcut shapes created an inherent luminosity that Lazzell exploited with her superb sense of color and Cubist-flavored composition. A denizen of Cape Cod, she depicted harbor scenes, landscapes and village rooftops and backyards in images that replace the expected sentimentality with fervent joy. The light has been switched off. Craig F. Starr Gallery, 5 East 73rd Street , (212) 570-1739, starr-art.com. (Smith)20090806
 Galleries: 57th Street
 'PAUL JENKINS IN THE 1960S AND 1970S: SPACE, COLOR AND LIGHT,' through Sept. 25. While seriously overhung, this exhibition affords a rare, extensive look at the work of an artist who borrowed from Abstract Expressionism and then Color Field Painting to devise flowing, billowing veils of color that dazzle with their formal acrobatics and luminous, jewel-toned hues. Working with his well-known ivory knives, Mr. Jenkins makes his colors leap, overlap and splinter, pitting them against whiplash lines and stark white backgrounds that increase their luminosity. His paintings have frequently been too gorgeous for their own good, which means that they can verge on slick. But the selection here shows him at the height of his powers. D. Wigmore Fine Art, 730 Fifth Avenue , (212) 581-1657, dwigmore.com. (Smith)20090806
 Galleries: Chelsea
 'EAST COAST VIDEO,' through Aug. 14. With one exception, this smart, cool show presents videos involving straightforward shots f human performers. Kate Gilmore bravely performs while being pelted by tomatoes; Alex McQuilkin holds her breath underwater to dreamy effect; Rashaad Newsome directs women to practice racially coded mannerisms; Jamie Diamond offers a study in frustratingly lukewarm sexual tension; and the team of Caraballo-Farman documents colorful, battery-driven vibrators running until exhausted. Ramis Barquet, 532 West 24th Street , (212) 675-3421, ramisbarquet.com. (Johnson)20090806
 'NAKED!,' through Sept. 19. Although it includes some images of men, a more accurate title for this entertainingly lubricious show would be ''Naked Women of Childb-Bearing Age.'' A big part of the show's appeal is its wacky eclecticism. The 44 works range from a 1626 painting of the river god Alpheus chasing the nymph Arethusa, by Moyses van Uyttenbroeck, to Mel Ramos's 2007 sculpture of a voluptuous woman emerging from an open banana peel. Paul Kasmin Gallery, 293 10th Avenue, at 27th Street , (212) 563-4474, paulkasmingallery.com. (Johnson)20090806
 'PROJECT SPACE & ROOFTOP: PAULA HAYES,' through Aug. 14. The best works in this show, which spreads from gallery space to terrace, are hand-blown clear-glass terrariums inhabited by either plants or crystals; rubbery planters of several kinds; and some eco-conscious landscaping devices. All blur the lines dividing sculpture, gardening and design into an art of purposeful, playful beauty and serenity. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street , (212) 680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com. (Smith)20090806
 SCOTT REEDER: 'PAINTER,' through Aug. 29. Mr. Reeder paints amusing, cartoonish images with a refined, brushy touch; an acute feel for color; and a kind of twisted reverence for Bonnard, Picasso and other godfathers of Modernist painting. ''Suicidal Shape (Study in Red),'' in which a blank pink canvas is suspended by a hangman's noose in an empty watermelon-red room, makes fun of the tortured-artist cliche while nodding to Matisse's ''Red Studio.'' Daniel Reich Gallery, 537A West 23rd Street , (212) 924-4949, danielreichgallery.com. (Johnson)20090806
 'YOUR GOLD TEETH II,' through Aug. 15. This exceptional show -- titled after a song by Steely Dan -- ignores the distinctions between art and craft, old and new, commercial and fine. The many works are arranged in unusually tight clusters without labels; formal and visual affinities are established before you quite know what you're looking at. Craft-world greats like Peter Voulkos, Ed Rossbach, Marvin Lipofsky, George Ohr and Edward Moulthrop (you can look them up) rub shoulders with fine-art practitioners like Barkley L. Hendricks, Sergej Jensen, Alexandra Bircken, Alighiero E. Boetti and Cady Noland. All kinds of visual prejudices are shaken up, if not startled out of existence. Marianne Boesky Gallery, 509 West 24th Street , (212) 680-9889, marianneboeskygallery.com. (Smith)20090806
 Galleries: SoHo
 JONAH FREEMAN AND JUSTIN LOWE: 'BLACK ACID CO-OP,' through Aug. 15. This immense, labor-intensive, maniacally contrived warren of some dozen rooms, interiors and passageways tours some of the darker sides of American life and its always evolving recreational drug cultures. The itinerary includes two home-style meth labs (one functioning, one exploded); a red-carpeted gallery of pseudo-artworks; and a hippie haven. Things seem realistic enough on the surface, but artistic license regularly intervenes, adding curve balls about perception, voyeurism and display. And yet beyond all this, it is the impression of different styles of American detachment and dysfunction caving in upon one another that sticks, underscored by a bleak, empty final chamber where the only choice is to turn around and retrace your steps. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street , (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Smith)20090806
 'DASH SNOW, 1981-2009: A COMMUNITY MEMORIAL,' through Aug. 15. In the wake of the recent death of the artist and downtown art star Dash Snow, friends and family have lent photographs and other works by and about him. The walls of the gallery are densely covered, with photographs of the artist in the great majority. The show gives evidence of his charismatic personality, photogenic looks and propensity for fast living. It is not a chance to evaluate his art, but it does raise the question of whether the art can supersede the personality and life story. Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street , (212) 343-7300, deitch.com. (Smith)20090806
 Public Art
 'PLOT/09: THIS WORLD & NEARER ONES,' through the summer. The big draw in the city's first quadrennial of public art -- an exhibition of 19 site-specific works organized by Creative Time on Governors Island -- is the beautiful, haunted, car-free island itself. Standouts among the uneven melange of artworks include videos by Guido van der Werve, Adam Chodzko, Judi Werthein and the ingenious Bruce High Quality Foundation. Outdoors, beyond the dark rooms, Susan Philipsz, Teresa Margolles, Tue Greenfort, Mark Wallinger and especially Klaus Weber also add substance. But the degree of site-specificity fluctuates wildly, and the concept as a whole is inadvertently called into question. (212) 206-6674, creativetime.org. (Smith)20090806
 Out of Town
 INSTITUTE OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'SHEPARD FAIREY: SUPPLY AND DEMAND,' through Aug. 16. The surprise of the first museum retrospective for the creator of the Obama ''Hope'' poster is that almost everything he does, from abstracted images of Andre the Giant to his album covers for Led Zeppelin and other bands, is visually arresting. But in tracking his 20-year evolution from aesthetic anarchist to savvy, all-purpose designer and illustrator, the exhibition inadvertently casts doubt on his authenticity as a radical street artist. 100 Northern Avenue, Boston, (617) 478-3100, icaboston.org.20090806
 (Johnson)
 ZOE LEONARD, through Sept. 7. Always an exceptionally moving artist, though only sporadically visible, Zoe Leonard has an exhibition at Dia:Beacon, an hour and a half north of the city. It is different from some of her earlier shows: cooler and less intimate, documentary in form, broadly social in scope. At the same time, it shares a sensibility with what has come before, one attuned to realities of constant change, which as often as not means loss. Dia:Beacon, 3 Beekman Street, Beacon, N.Y. , (845) 440-0100, diaart.org. (Cotter)20090806
 NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART: 'THE ART OF POWER: ROYAL ARMOR AND PORTRAITS FROM IMPERIAL SPAIN,' through Nov. 1. Drawn from the Royal Armory in Madrid, one of the oldest and greatest repositories of armor in the world, this exhibition presents full suits of armor, as well as individual helmets, shields, swords and armor for horses. There are portraits of 16th- and 17th-century Spanish kings in armor, too, and three spectacular tapestries. But it is the extraordinarily sumptuous metalwork, produced not for warfare but for ceremonial occasions, that is the main attraction. National Mall, Fourth and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington. , (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Johnson)20090806
 PEABODY ESSEX MUSEUM: 'THE GOLDEN AGE OF DUTCH SEASCAPES,' through Sept. 7. What with all those cataclysmic storms, shipwrecks, sea battles and marauding pirates in 17th-century Dutch marine paintings, it's a wonder anyone dared venture off land at all. There are periods of calm in this show of 72 expertly rendered seascapes, but the overall impression is harrowing. Nautical history buffs will be in heaven. East India Square, 161 Essex Street, Salem, Mass. , (866) 745-1876, pem.org. (Johnson)20090806
 Last Chance
 GUYTON/WALKER; closes on Friday. A Geiger counter designed to measure art-world cleverness would go haywire around the latest collaborative efforts of Wade Guyton and Kelley Walker. Several generations' worth of painting's history, motifs and breakthroughs are evoked -- along with its shipping needs, its use as decor and its influence on design. The dots, stripes, monochromes and Op Art checks of postwar abstraction mingle with Pop Art bananas, zebra-skin motifs and orange slices while migrating from canvas to drywall to Parsons tables and paint cans. Painting as process, as pleasure and as commodity is evoked. The high-key color is especially impressive. But once the references are parsed and sourced, the fun-house formalism tends to ring hollow. Greene Naftali, 508 West 26th Street, Chelsea , (212) 463-7770, greenenaftaligallery.com. (Smith)20090806
 'PIG,' closes on Sunday. Described in its news release as ''a colorful chaos of lovely details,'' this often exuberant nine-artist show was organized by the Italian multimedia artist Paola Pivi and the unruly Austrian pair Gelatin, who are also its standouts. For starters, Ms. Pivi covers cross-like structures in rhinestones. Gelatin renders paintings of colorful, goofy faces in Plasteline clay. But Paul Chan, Jim Drain, Jeff Koons, Roberto Cuoghi, Mario Grubisic and Schuyler Maehl also contribute. And Simon Martin's seeming cerebral videotape about an emblematic Memphis bookcase by Ettore Sottsass is surprisingly pertinent. Deitch Studios, 4-40 44th Drive, Long Island City, Queens , (212) 343-7300. 20090806
 (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Reeder: 'Painter': ''Cubist Cokehead (Woman With Purse)'' is one of this artist's cartoonish images incorporating a kind of twisted reverence for Bonnard, Picasso and other godfathers of Modernist painting, on view at the Daniel Reich Gallery in Chelsea.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL REICH GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); SCULPTURE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RELIGION (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MOUNTAINS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



168 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1276 words

HEADLINE: Loan Spree By China Ignites Fears Of Defaults

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

DATELINE: SHANGHAI 

 BODY:
When China announced three weeks ago that its economy grew by 7.1 percent in the first half of the year, the country appeared to be a bright spot in the global recession.
 But many economists now worry that too much of China's growth was fueled by aggressive state-directed lending that could eventually result in a soaring number of defaults and mounting government debt.
 While banks in the United States are still reluctant to lend because of fears they will not be paid back, Chinese banks issued a record $1.1 trillion in loans in the first six months of the year, mostly to big state-owned companies and government infrastructure projects.
 Analysts say China's new loans this year have grown at nearly three times the pace of a year ago and that some of those loans may have been funneled into China's resurgent stock and property markets, creating the risk of new asset bubbles. 
 A similar lending binge in the 1990s led to an explosion of bad debt that left the nation's biggest state-owned banks nearly insolvent after the Asian financial crisis, until they were bailed out by the government in a series of moves that ended in 2004.
 The current unprecedented effort to stimulate the economy through intensive bank lending now appears far more ambitious than the $586 billion economic stimulus package that Beijing announced last November.
 In the United States, political leaders debate the extent to which the government ought to intervene in the financial market. In China, debate is rare. The government orders banks to lend, and they do so almost instantly.
 But some economists fear these moves could prove unsustainable and hinder China's prospects for long-term growth.
 ''They opted for a very quick fix,'' said Stephen S. Roach, an economist and chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia. ''Surging investment, fueled by the most rapid bank lending in history, accounted for nearly 90 percent of China's G.D.P. growth in the first half of this year. And that is worrisome.''
 China's growth favors investment, rather than consumption, Mr. Roach said, creating an unhealthy, unbalanced economy.
 Not everyone is so bearish. Some economists say China's growth this year is a positive sign for the global economy and a stunning rally after the slowdown last year. They also say Beijing is adept at changing course and finding new policy tools to address threats to growth.
 But if China's growth falters late this year or early next year, some specialists contend the global recession could deepen and lengthen. After all, many economists had forecast that much of the global growth in the next decade would come from China.
 Economists agree on one thing: the pace of lending in China must slow significantly in the rest of this year to avert a crisis.
 Nicholas R. Lardy, an economist and China specialist at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, said China's investments in infrastructure had been more prudent than in the 1990s and that lending would slow significantly in the second half of this year. Still, he cautioned, ''If that does not happen, I will become much more pessimistic.''
 China's regulators have begun to acknowledge the risks of overly aggressive lending. Last month, China's Central Bank called for stricter supervision of bank loans because some stimulus spending appeared to be for wasteful government projects.
 And the China Banking Regulatory Commission ordered banks to raise bad-loan reserve ratios by the end of the year. 
 ''Rapid expansion of bank loans in the first half year boosted the country's economic growth,'' said Liu Mingkang, China's top banking regulator. ''But it also increased the possibilities of financial risks.''
 Still, Beijing seems unlikely to tighten monetary policy sharply. The government needs to keep the economy on pace to grow 8 percent this year, strong enough to create jobs and prevent social instability, particularly before celebrations in October of the 60th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
 At a Politburo meeting last month, President Hu Jintao called for China to maintain a ''relatively loose'' monetary policy and signaled that the direction of macroeconomic policy ''should be maintained.'' 
 The question is whether economic planners can strike a balance in promoting growth. Curbing lending could stall the recovery and make it hard to meet the 8 percent growth target. Letting the lending boom go on could sow the seeds of financial disaster.
 ''They've got to ensure there's enough loans for the real economy,'' said Wang Tao, an economist in Beijing at UBS Securities. ''But they also have to slow down the loan growth to prevent an asset bubble or future increase in nonperforming loans.''
 In the first half of this year, China's bank loans increased more than 200 percent from a year ago, to more than $1 trillion.
 Chinese banks could do this because they had strong balance sheets relative to Western banks. Bad loans from the 1990s were cleared off the books years ago and initial public stock offerings in recent years pumped billions into many of China's big banks. The banks had also avoided many of the toxic assets American and European banks held.
 Through June, China's bank regulators said, nonperforming loans at China's commercial banks accounted for just 1.74 percent of outstanding loans -- down slightly from the start of the year.
 But many specialists said that could change as these loans come due. They said they suspect that government pressure on banks to lend this year will eventually result in a surge in defaults.
 ''If you tell bankers, lend as much as you like -- lend, lend, lend, and don't worry about the risk, never in history has there not been a large increase in misallocated capital,'' said Michael Pettis, a professor of finance at Peking University. 
 Fitch Ratings, the credit rating agency, warned in May that Chinese banks faced new risks, particularly because loan growth soared this year as corporate profits weakened.
 ''Ordinarily, falling corporate earnings are met with tightened lending,'' Fitch said. ''In China precisely the reverse is evident, illustrating that despite years of reform Chinese banks still retain an important policy function in upholding local enterprises.''
 Andy Xie, an economist based in Shanghai, says one of the side effects of this lending spree has been speculation in commodities, stocks and property -- all of which could saddle the banks and local governments with huge debts once prices fall.
 ''This could be a national debt issue,'' said Mr. Xie, a former Morgan Stanley economist. ''All of this is government money.''
 Recently, big state-owned property developers, with loans from state-owned banks, have made record bids at state land auctions. And Shanghai's stock market is up about 84 percent this year -- after a turnaround following last year's sell-off.
 No one has precise statistics or even clear proof that loans are flowing into the stock market, but some analysts seem to believe it; with China awash in cash, the stock market has rallied.
 An even bigger worry for economists is that China is not doing more to rebalance its economy away from investment and exports and toward consumption. The country, they say, needs a new growth model.
 With exports down more than 20 percent from a year ago, China is stimulating growth with loans to state-owned companies and government works. But how long can that last? Mr. Roach, of Morgan Stanley, said not for long.
 ''Here's the wrinkle,'' he said. ''External demand is notcoming back any time soon because the American consumer is dead in the water.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Some loans may back projects like this one in Changzhi, China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)(B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); BANKING IN CHINA (76%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (78%); SHANXI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



169 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: For Puerto Ricans, Sotomayor Prompts Pride, and Reflection

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

 BODY:
In the summer of 1959, Edwin Torres landed a $60-a-week job and wound up on the front page of El Diario. He had just been hired as the first Puerto Rican assistant district attorney in New York -- and probably, he thinks, the entire United States.
 He still recalls the headline: ''Exemplary Son of El Barrio Becomes Prosecutor.''
 ''You would've thought I had been named attorney general,'' he said. ''That's how big it was.'' 
 Half a century later, the long and sometimes bittersweet history of Puerto Ricans in New York added a celebratory chapter on Thursday as the Senate confirmed Judge Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court. Her personal journey -- from a single-parent home in the Bronx projects to the Ivy League and an impressive legal career -- has provoked a fierce pride in many other Puerto Ricans who glimpse reflections of their own struggles.
 ''This is about the acceptance that eluded us,'' said Mr. Torres, 78, who himself earned distinction as a jurist, novelist and raconteur. ''It is beyond anybody's imagination when I started that a Puerto Rican could ascend to that position, to the Supreme Court.''
 Arguably the highest rung that any Puerto Rican has yet reached in this country, the confirmation of Judge Sotomayor is a watershed event for Puerto Rican New York. It builds on the achievements that others of her generation have made in business, politics, the arts and pop culture. It extends the legacy of an earlier, lesser-known generation who created social service and educational institutions that persist today, helping newcomers from Mexico and the Dominican Republic.
 Yet the city has also been a place of heartbreak. Though Puerto Ricans were granted citizenship in 1917 and large numbers of them arrived in New York in the 1950s, poverty and lack of opportunity still pockmark some of their neighborhoods. A 2004 report by a Hispanic advocacy group showed that compared with other Latino groups nationwide, Puerto Ricans had the highest poverty rate, the lowest average family income and the highest unemployment rate for men.
 In politics, the trailblazer Herman Badillo saw his career go from a series of heady firsts in the 1960s to frustration in the 1980s when his dreams of becoming the city's first Puerto Rican mayor were foiled by Harlem's political bosses. Just four years ago, Fernando Ferrer was trounced in his bid against Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
 All those setbacks lose their sting, if only for a moment, in the glow of Judge Sotomayor's achievement, which many of her fellow Puerto Ricans say is as monumental for them as President Obama's election was for African-Americans. It has affirmed a sense of Puerto Rican identity at a moment when that distinction is often obscured by catch-all labels like Latino and Hispanic -- and even as it is subjected to negative comparisons.
 ''Many elite Latin Americans have implied that Puerto Ricans blew it, because we had citizenship and did nothing,'' said Lillian Jimenez, a documentary filmmaker who co-produced a series of television ads in support of Judge Sotomayor's nomination. ''But we were the biggest Spanish-speaking group in New York for decades, and bore the brunt of discrimination, especially in the 1950s. We struggled for our rights. We have people everywhere doing all kinds of things. But that history has not been known.''
 That history is in danger of disappearing in East Harlem, long the cradle of Puerto Rican New York. After waves of gentrification and development, parts of the area are now being advertised as Upper Yorkville, a new annex to the predominantly white Upper East Side. While the poor have stayed behind, many of East Harlem's successful sons and daughters have scattered to the suburbs. 
 ''We have a whole intellectual and professional class that is invisible -- people who came up though the neighborhood, with a working-class background, who really excelled,'' said Angelo Falcon, president of the National Institute for Latino Policy.
 ''But it's so dispersed, people don't see it. They do not make up a real, physical community, but they have the identity.''
 For those who paved the way for Judge Sotomayor, embracing that identity was the first step in charting their personal and professional paths out of hardship. Manuel del Valle, 60, an overachiever from the housing projects on Amsterdam Avenue, made the same leaps as the judge -- to Princeton University and Yale Law School -- but preceded her by five years.
 Taking a cue from the black students at Princeton, he and the handful of other working-class Puerto Ricans from New York pressured university officials to offer a course on Puerto Rican history and to admit more minority students. They saw their goal as creating a class of lawyers, doctors, writers and activists who would use their expertise to lift up their old neighborhoods.
 ''Talk about arrogance,'' said Mr. del Valle, who now teaches law in Puerto Rico. ''We actually believed we would have a dynamic impact on all the institutions American society had to offer.''
 Judge Sotomayor's appointment, he said, is a vindication of those efforts.
 ''We were invisible,'' he said. ''She made us visible.''
 In New York, many have welcomed the judge's visibility during a summer when the most celebrated -- and reviled -- local politicians were two Puerto Rican state senators who brought the state government to a standstill by mounting an abortive coup against their fellow Democrats.
 ''She really came at a moment when there is a public reassessment of the value of identity politics through this brouhaha in the Senate,'' said Arlene Davila, a professor of anthropology at New York University who has written extensively on Puerto Rican and Latino identity. ''Here came this woman who reinvigorated us with the idea that a Latina can have a lot to contribute, not just to their own group, but to the entire American society.''
 But it is among her own -- in the South Bronx, East Harlem or the Los Sures neighborhood of Brooklyn -- where Judge Sotomayor's success resonates loudest, for the simple reason that many people understand the level of perseverance she needed to achieve it. 
 Orlando Plaza, 41, who took time off from his doctoral studies in history about five years ago to open Camaradas, a popular bar in East Harlem, sees her appeal as a sort of ethnic Rorschach test.
 ''Whether it's growing up in the Bronx, going to Catholic school or being from a single-parent household, there are so many tropes in her own story that we feel pride that someone from a background like ours achieved something so enormous,'' he said. ''This is the real Jenny from the block.''
 And it is on the block, among the men and women who left Puerto Rico decades ago so their children might one day become professionals, where her story is most sweetly savored. The faces of the men and women playing dominoes or shooting pool at the Betances Senior Center in the Bronx attest to decades of hard work. 
 Many of them came to New York as teenagers more out of despair than dreams. Lucy Medina, who arrived in the 1950s, worked as a keypunch operator and in other jobs as she single-handedly raised two children. Today, her son is a captain in the city's Department of Correction and her daughter is a real estate executive.
 Impressive as the judge's accomplishments are, Ms. Medina is more impressed with the judge's mother, Celina Sotomayor, who did what she had to do in order to raise two successful children in the projects.
 ''Her mother and I are very similar,'' said Ms. Medina, 77. ''I know what she went through. We sacrificed ourselves so our children would get an education and get ahead. A lot of women here have done that. We stayed on top of our children and made sure they didn't get sidetracked.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orlando Plaza says Sonia Sotomayor ''is the real Jenny from the block.''(A13)
Lucy Medina is especially impressed by Sonia Sotomayor's mother
Edwin Torres, a retired judge, said of the Sotomayor story: ''This is about the acceptance that eluded us.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) MAP: Puerto Rican New York in Perspective: Puerto Ricans are the largest Hispanic group in New York City. They tend to be older and more likely to speak English than other major Latino groups. Their biggest population centers are in East Harlem, South Bronx and Bushwick.(Sources: Minnesota Population Center
 City University of New York Graduate Center)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); POLITICS (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FAMILY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (76%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); POVERTY RATES (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); POOR POPULATION (66%); SINGLE PARENTS (54%); CITIZENSHIP (51%)

PERSON: SONIA SOTOMAYOR (91%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); BARACK OBAMA (53%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



170 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW 'DUTCH SEEN'; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: Photographic Links to Golden Age of Dutch Painting

BYLINE: By MARTHA SCHWENDENER. 
Martha Schwendener is a freelance writer based in Brooklyn.

 BODY:
The Dutch controlled Manhattan for only a few decades before the British took over in 1664, but their influence has lingered for centuries. After all, the Netherlands in the 17th century was a cultural melting pot, and the Dutch policy of liberalism, in trade as well as religion, has been seen as a fundamental reason for New York's cosmopolitanism and economic success.
 ''Dutch Seen: New York Rediscovered,'' organized by Kathy Ryan, who is director of photography for The New York Times Magazine, takes the old Dutch-New York connection and runs with it. The show, at the Museum of the City of New York, is part of NY400, a series of exhibitions and events commemorating the 400th anniversary of Henry Hudson's voyage on the Half Moon, financed by the Dutch East India Company. (Never mind that Hudson was being paid to find a shortcut to Asia; the Dutch liked it here well enough to stay a while.) 
 For the exhibition, Ms. Ryan recruited 13 contemporary Dutch photographers to rediscover New York through the lens of the ''classical tradition.'' It's not the classical tradition of photography she's referring to, however. Instead it's the golden age of Dutch painting, which coincided with the initial ''discovery'' of New York -- artists like Rembrandt, Vermeer and Frans Hals. ''Let's just assume the ghosts of those three men sit on all Dutch shoulders,'' Ms. Ryan says in the show's catalog.
 The Dutch painting-photography nexus is exploited with sly humor by Hendrik Kerstens, whose staged portraits of his grown daughter mimic canvases by the Dutch triumvirate. In one photograph with a brooding, dark background Mr. Kerstens's daughter wears a simple white head covering, like a 17th-century housemaid; in another an elaborate, bourgeois-lady affair. The titles give the jokes away: the first is a ''Napkin''; the second a plastic grocery ''Bag'' shaped to look like a lace hood.
 Humor also informs Jaap Scheeren's portraits of Hudson and Peter Stuyvesant, the director general of New Netherland. Hudson, who was cast adrift in a lifeboat in the Canadian Arctic in 1611 after his crew mutinied, is shown as a hapless gray-haired gentleman wrapped in a plain brown blanket. Stuyvesant's stand-in is photographed below the waist in printed Bermuda shorts, highlighting his famous peg leg. In a photograph that alludes to the colonial fur trade, Mr. Scheeren bought a stuffed beaver on eBay and photographed it on an East Village roof.
 Landscape, another important Dutch genre, is covered by Misha de Ridder, who photographed wetlands, beaches and forests that would have supported the 17th-century Dutch poet Jacob Steendam's claims for New Amsterdam as an Eden with pure air and abundant resources. Mr. de Ridder's moody photographs of wooded thickets and crashing surf seem more like 19th-century Romantic takes on landscape, however, than the placid Dutch variety. (For a 17th-century touchstone, check out Ruisdael's ''View of the Town of Alkmaar'' in the companion exhibition, ''Amsterdam/New Amsterdam,'' down the hall.)
 One of the most satisfying series produced for the show is Wijnanda Deroo's photographs of New York restaurant interiors. Ms. Deroo upholds the great tradition of Dutch interiors, but in her own way. She is a vivid colorist whose images of Tavern on the Green in Central Park, Milon Indian restaurant in the East Village and Papaya Dog in Midtown showcase their wild, garish decor and remind you of Dutch industrial designers who favor similar retina-burning hues.
 Other series are not so satisfying. Morad Bouchakour and Arno Nollen both contributed street photographs -- that is, images of people, presumably New Yorkers, taken on the streets of the city. Mr. Nollen started the project looking for evidence of ''Dutchness'' in passers-by, but quickly gave up. His resulting grid of uniformly photographed, close-up faces is unremarkable.
 Mr. Bouchakour's photographs, installed in a casual salon style, include lots of types and characters: the wizened Italian-American, the proud Irishman, an industrious Orthodox Jew, a young man with an upside-down cross tattooed inexplicably on his cheek. But when you're trawling the same territory as Diane Arbus and Garry Winogrand, it's a tough sell.
 Hellen van Meene works in the shadow of a contemporary midcareer master: her countrywoman Rineke Dijkstra. Ms. van Meene's portraits of young girls have always felt like a subset of Ms. Dijkstra's oeuvre, and her focus exclusively on white New York young adolescents feels especially dubious here. Ms. Dijkstra, who found a niche photographing adolescents and young adults at vulnerable and transitional moments in their lives -- after childbirth or during military training, for instance -- is represented by her benchmark series from 1993, in which she shot teenagers on beaches in various locales. Coney Island happened to be one, so three of those images are here.
 Charlotte Dumas's portraits of dogs in New York shelters are mildly affecting, but a lightweight commentary compared with, say, Daido Moriyama's world-weary ''Stray Dog'' from 1971. Similarly, Danielle van Ark's photographs taken at art openings feel like a missed opportunity to document a motley subculture in its habitat. Ms. van Ark's works look, at first glance, as if they were taken at the same opening (several are from a recent Cindy Sherman show at Metro Pictures) rather than the hundred-plus she reportedly attended.
 Ms. Ryan's focus on classical photographers turns out to be as much an asset as a liability for this show. The parallels between large-scale color photography and painting are easy to establish, as are the links with classic art photography. But aside from Ms. Deroo, and perhaps Mr. Scheeren, you won't discover much here about New York -- or photography -- that you didn't know beforehand.
 ''Dutch Seen: New York Rediscovered'' is on view through Sept. 13 at the Museum of the City of New York, 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street; (212) 534-1672, info@mcny.org 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Hendrik Kerstens's ''Bag,'' above, a portrait of his daughter as a 17th-century Dutch housemaid uses a plastic bag to mimic a lace hood. At right, Wijnanda Deroo's photograph of Tavern on the Green in Central Park showcases that restaurant's flamboyant decor.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FOAM FOTOGRAFIEMUSEUM AMSTERDAM AND WITZENHAUSEN GALLERY
 FOAM FOTOGRAFIEMUSEUM AMSTERDAM AND ROBERT MANN GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); EXHIBITIONS (75%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (75%); LIBERALISM (72%); WRITERS (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); WETLANDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (91%); ASIA (79%); ARCTIC (78%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



171 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Land of the Rising Yen

BYLINE: By AKIO MIKUNI. 
Akio Mikuni is the president of a credit rating agency.

DATELINE: Tokyo 

 BODY:
 IN the 17th century, after a long series of conflicts that ended in a unified Japan, peace finally came to this country. Commerce flourished. Wealthy women spent money on exquisite kimonos and modeled their original designs at fashion shows. Imports surged of Chinese ''white'' silk yarn, which Japan paid for in precious metals. A prominent scholar of the time, Miyazaki Yasusada, justified such trade by arguing that you cannot eat or wear gold or silver. 
 Japanese consumers can be lavish spenders -- when they are given an opportunity. I see one coming. 
 Many would find this hard to believe. For much of the 20th century Japan's growth was driven by exports, and consumption relative to gross domestic product has been around 55 percent since 1980. This goes back to the 19th century, when Japan set out to catch up with the West by modernizing production and exporting products to advanced nations. It's become a kind of national obsession to have a weak yen, which helps keep exports cheap and competitive. 
 But this fixation comes at a high domestic price: We lose much-needed capital -- and purchasing power abroad. 
 Japan is finally ripe for change. Exports have plunged since the financial collapse last autumn. American consumers could not borrow so easily anymore, and were less inclined to spend. While Japanese exports finally seem to be bottoming out, we can't just wait around for American consumers to become as spendthrift as before. The United States is still burdened with excessive debt, and that seems likely to depress American imports of manufactured goods for years to come. 
 This is all part of a larger shift in Asia's role in the world economy. Japan exports some of its goods to the United States indirectly through Asian supply chains. Finished products are assembled in China before they are shipped to the final destination. While we profited from this state of affairs, our long-term priority should be to supply goods to the Japanese market, not to the rest of the world. 
 So what's the problem with relying on exports? Let me give a simple example. We manufacture automobiles. When we sell them domestically, this is a boon to Japanese car dealers, insurance salesmen and repairmen. But when we ship them abroad, they are not making a meaningful contribution to the domestic economy. Income earned by the export sector is offset by the amount of capital that we invest in the United States to encourage a dollar strong enough to allow American consumers to buy our products. Sure, we get foreign reserves -- like United States government bonds -- in return for that capital. But as our 17th-century scholar would remind us, we cannot eat or wear American dollars.
 We need to replace external demands with domestic ones. We could do this by exchanging our dollar investments for yen. This would cause the yen to appreciate, reducing the costs of imports and enhancing real purchasing power. Already, some Japanese retailers are slashing prices because the strengthening yen is lowering the cost of their imports. They could do it again if the yen appreciated further.
 In the short term, moving away from our long-cherished export model will be painful. We should brace ourselves for factory closings, bankruptcies and mergers. The remaining manufacturing companies will have to shift their orientation. While many have been intent on selling competitively priced goods abroad, now they will need to come up with unique products that can command premium prices. 
 Japanese companies can rise to the challenge. I have rated corporate bonds for the past quarter-century. In 1983, we had only two AAA-rated companies, excluding financial companies. Today, we have nine. Those companies earned their ratings in part by demonstrating strong price-setting power.
 A few decades ago, some Japanese companies would make a point of pricing their own goods 20 percent less than competing products in the United States. Now, many products are being priced independently by Japanese manufacturers. These companies will find plenty of pent-up demand, as Japanese consumers have shown a preference for good quality over low prices. 
 Japan has been hit hard by the global financial crisis, and this time exports are not going to save us. Instead, we must scrap some of our long-held traditions and start from scratch. Many in government will be reluctant to make this change, but they may soon find that they have no other option. Japanese policy makers cannot keep the yen weakened forever because doing so is costly to the domestic economy, and thus to voters. It's time for us to learn from the free-spending ladies of the 17th century and enjoy a strong yen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); BONDS (73%); FASHION SHOWS (72%); NATURAL FIBERS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); NEW CAR DEALERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (96%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



172 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Another Hurdle for the Jobless: Credit Inquiries

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
Digging out of debt keeps getting harder for the unemployed as more companies use detailed credit checks to screen job prospects.
 Out of work since December, Juan Ochoa was delighted when a staffing firm recently responded to his posting on Hotjobs.com with an opening for a data entry clerk. Before he could do much more, though, the firm checked his credit history. 
 The interest vanished. There were too many collections claims against him, the firm said.
 ''I never knew that nowadays they were going to start pulling credit checks on you even before you go for an interview,'' said Mr. Ochoa, 46, who lost his job in December tracking inventory at a mining company in Santa Fe Springs, Calif. ''Why would they need to pull a credit report? They'd need something like that if you were applying at a bank.'' 
 Once reserved for government jobs or payroll positions that could involve significant sums of money, credit checks are now fast, cheap and used for all manner of work. Employers, often winnowing a big pool of job applicants in days of nearly 10 percent unemployment, view the credit check as a valuable tool for assessing someone's judgment.
 But job counselors worry that the practice of shunning those with poor credit may be unfair and trap the unemployed -- who may be battling foreclosure, living off credit cards and confronting personal bankruptcy -- in a financial death spiral: the worse their debts, the harder it is to get a job to pay them off. 
 ''How do you get out from under it?'' asked Matthew W. Finkin, a law professor at the University of Illinois, who fears that the unemployed and debt-ridden could form a luckless class. ''You can't re-establish your credit if you can't get a job, and you can't get a job if you've got bad credit.''
 Others say that the credit check can be used to provide cover for discriminatory practices. Responding to complaints from constituents, lawmakers in a few states have recently proposed legislation that would restrict employers' use of credit checks. While some measures languish, Hawaii has just imposed new restraints.
 Business executives say that they have an obligation to be diligent and to protect themselves from employees who may be unreliable, unwise or too susceptible to temptation to steal, and that credit checks are a help. 
 ''If I see too many negative things coming up on a credit check, it's one of those things that raises a flag with me,'' said Anita Orozco, director of human resources at Sonneborn, a petrochemical company based in Mahwah, N.J. She added that while bad credit alone would not be a reason to deny someone a job, it might reveal poor judgment. 
 ''If you see a history of bad decision-making, you don't want that decision-making overflowing into your organization,'' she said.
 More than 40 percent of employers use credit checks at least sometimes, according to a 2004 survey by the Society for Human Resource Management, up from 25 percent in 1998. The share has almost certainly risen today, say career counselors. 
 ''It has been an ongoing and increasing issue,'' said Mollie de Rojas, district coordinator for the local operations of the Ohio Department of Job and Family Services. 
 Credit counselors, worker advocates and the unemployed contend that a credit check is not always relevant to hiring decisions. 
 ''There's no relationship between being a personal trainer making $12 an hour'' and having a good credit history, said Janet L. Newcomb, a career counselor in Huntington Beach, Calif. ''People are being turned down for jobs on the basis of things that really have nothing to do with qualifications.'' 
 That is the complaint of Kevin Palmer, 49, who for months lived at the same homeless shelter in Santa Ana, Calif., as Mr. Ochoa. After an interview that seemed to go well one day in June at a property management company, a manager walked him around the office the next day, introduced him to other employees and showed him an available desk.
 A credit check later, the offer vanished.
 It was ''a glorified clerk's job, taking homeowners' complaints,'' Mr. Palmer said of the opportunity, which paid about $39,000 and could have gotten him back on his feet after losing his condominium to foreclosure and filing for bankruptcy. 
 Last month, he says he found a job at a property management company in San Francisco -- a company that did not run a credit check on him. 
 It is generally legal to run credit checks on job applicants, but some states have restrictions. In Washington, which has perhaps the most stringent requirement, a candidate's credit history must be substantially related to the job under a law that took effect in 2007. 
 Last month, lawmakers in Hawaii approved a measure that generally allows an employer to review a credit history only after making an offer and requires the credit check to be ''directly related'' to job qualifications.
 In California, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed a similar law. (New York law requires a background check's findings to be related to the job, but it addresses criminal records and does not mention credit checks.)
 Lawmakers in Michigan and Ohio have proposed barring employers from using credit history in making employment decisions. 
 ''In my opinion, it's discrimination,'' said Representative Jon Switalski, the Democrat who proposed legislation in Michigan. ''If you miss a few payments or you have medical debt, your skills as a pipefitter or an electrician don't diminish.'' 
 Courts have not been sympathetic to claims that discrimination is being cloaked in credit checks, said Angela Onwuachi-Willig, a law professor at the University of Iowa. ''At what point does the fact that someone lives in a particular neighborhood or someone has a bad credit score become a way of eliminating people for illegal grounds?'' she asked rhetorically. ''Basically, the courts don't protect against proxy discrimination.''
 Stuart J. Ishimaru, the acting chairman of the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, said the commission would probably issue guidance on the proper use of credit checks. Such guidance, though nonbinding, could offer some reassurance against lawsuits to employers who comply. 
 ''It's something that intrigues us and worries us,'' Mr. Ishimaru said, adding that some job-related tests had led to discrimination claims in the past. ''The question is, why do you use it? How is this a good screening device?'' 
 Federal law requires employers to get the consent of job applicants before running credit checks, said Pamela Q. Devata, a lawyer in the Chicago office of Seyfarth Shaw.
 And if they are considering denying someone a job based on a check, she said, ''they have to notify the applicant.'' That is intended to give someone a chance to explain circumstances or spot erroneous information. 
 When the job market improves and fewer people are fighting for slots, credit histories may become less important, said Michael C. Lazarchick, a career counselor in Pleasantville, N.J. ''But these are lean and mean times.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Palmer, 49, of Santa Ana, Calif., lost a job offer after a credit check revealed a bankruptcy.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DISMISSALS (73%); FORECLOSURE (68%); LEGISLATION (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); PETROCHEMICALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



173 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: White House Is Struggling to Measure Success in Afghanistan

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, ERIC SCHMITT and THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the American military comes to full strength in the Afghan buildup, the Obama administration is struggling to come up with a long-promised plan to measure whether the war is being won.
 Those ''metrics'' of success, demanded by Congress and eagerly awaited by the military, are seen as crucial if the president is to convince Capitol Hill and the country that his revamped strategy is working. Without concrete signs of progress, Mr. Obama may lack the political stock -- especially among Democrats and his liberal base -- to make the case for continuing the military effort or enlarging the American presence. 
 That problem will become particularly acute if American commanders in Afghanistan seek even more troops for a mission that many of Mr. Obama's most ardent supporters say remains ill defined and open-ended. 
 Senior administration officials said that the president's national security adviser, Gen. James L. Jones, approved a classified policy document on July 17 setting out nine broad objectives for metrics to guide the administration's policy on Afghanistan and Pakistan. Another month or two is still needed to flesh out the details, according to officials engaged in the work.
 General Jones and other top National Security Council aides, including Lt. Gen. Douglas E. Lute, gave an update to top Congressional leaders over recent days. 
 But as the Bush administration learned the hard way in Iraq, poorly devised measurements can become misleading indicators -- and can create a false sense of progress. 
 That is especially difficult in a war like the one in Afghanistan, in which eliminating corruption, promoting a working democracy and providing effective aid are as critical as scoring military success against insurgents and terrorists. 
 For instance, some of the measures now being devised by the Obama administration track the size, strength and self-reliance of the Afghan National Army, which the United States has been struggling to train for seven years. They include the number of operations in which Afghan soldiers are in the lead, or the number of Afghan soldiers who have received basic instruction.
 White House officials say they are taking the time to get the measurements right. 
 In some cases, old measurements are being thrown out. Commanders in Afghanistan say they no longer pay much attention to how many enemy fighters are killed in action. Instead, they are trying to count instances in which local citizens cooperate with Afghan and allied forces. 
 And in drafting a metric important to senior members of Congress, the administration is considering conducting an opinion poll to determine Afghan public perception of official corruption at national, provincial and district levels. This would give insight into how Afghan citizens view police performance at the neighborhood level all the way up to the quality of national political appointments.
 But as the architects of similar metrics in Iraq learned, even the best-constructed measures can miss the larger truth. 
 In 2005 and 2006, for example, the White House was often citing the ''rat rate'' in Iraq, a measure of good tips from Iraqis about the location of insurgents or the planting of roadside bombs. 
 ''We thought this was a good measure of how well the public was turning against'' Al Qaeda and other insurgents, said Peter D. Feaver, a professor at Duke University who served in the National Security Council at the time. ''What we discovered was that the rat rate numbers steadily improved over the course of 2006 -- and the violence was rising.''
 That experience helps to explain why the Obama administration has taken so much time. But some frustrated lawmakers said the delay might prove costly.
 ''We have been in Afghanistan now for more than seven and a half years,'' said Representative Ike Skelton, a Democrat of Missouri and the chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. ''These metrics are required to help make the case for the American people that actual progress is being made, or if we need to change the course to another direction. I think that time is not on our side.''
 When President Obama unveiled his new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan in March, he emphasized the importance of these measures.
 ''We will set clear metrics to measure progress and hold ourselves accountable,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We'll consistently assess our efforts to train Afghan security forces and our progress in combating insurgents. We will measure the growth of Afghanistan's economy and its illicit narcotics production. And we will review whether we are using the right tools and tactics to make progress towards accomplishing our goals.''
 All that now seems unlikely to be completed before his field commanders finish their proposals for carrying out their marching orders. Their recommendations were originally due at the Pentagon within the next two weeks, but Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates issued expanded instructions for the assessment to the commanders last weekend and gave them until September to complete their report.
 Skeptical lawmakers have implored Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to produce what Mr. Obama promised, and they have made specific recommendations of their own.
 ''The metrics are critically important to keep everyone's feet to the fire on this and for the public to know how we're doing and have some ways to measure it and not have just rhetoric,'' said Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan and chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee.
 ''We all share the president's goal of succeeding in Afghanistan,'' said Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. ''The challenge here is how we are going to define success in the medium term, given the difficult security environment we face.''
 Senior White House officials say their objectives are grouped in three main categories: counterterrorism, Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
 The counterinsurgency objectives are highly classified and cover a ''full range'' of efforts to help Pakistan combat the militant threat in its tribal areas. 
 Others address Pakistan's ability to maintain and strengthen democratically elected civilian government; the country's ability to confront and defeat an internal insurgent threat; and international support for Pakistan, including international donors, the United Nations and the World Bank. 
 In Afghanistan, they would assess suppression of the insurgency; building and strengthening Afghan security forces; shoring up support for the government and reviving the economy; and garnering support from NATO, the European Union, the United Nations and international donors. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Afghan police officer stood guard Thursday in Kabul during a campaign stop by Ashraf Ghani, a presidential candidate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MASSOUD HOSSAINI/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)(pg. A4)
 New Afghan national police officers took part in a graduation ceremony last month in Wardak Province. United States Army instructors supervised the officers' three-week training course.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAMIL ZHUMATOV/REUTERS)(pg. A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (75%); TERRORISM (68%); CORRUPTION (64%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JAMES L JONES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



174 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: G.E. to Add Two New U.S. Plants as Unions Agree on Cost Controls

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
For the first time in decades, General Electric is adding new operations at two of its manufacturing hubs, underlining what the company says is a new commitment to producing in the United States.
 G.E. is building a 350-employee plant in Schenectady, N.Y., to make high-density batteries that will turn many locomotives into diesel-electric hybrids. And in Louisville, Ky., it is adding a factory that will employ 420 workers to produce hybrid electric water heaters -- heaters now made in China. 
 The two moves by G.E., often accused of being too quick to close plants and move operations overseas, came only after its unions agreed to keep costs down by swallowing painful concessions, including a two-tier wage structure. 
 Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive, said the two new operations are part of his campaign to get corporate America to strengthen and expand manufacturing in the United States. 
 Sounding equal parts prophet, patriot and business executive, Mr. Immelt has in recent weeks voiced deep worries about America's sagging manufacturing base and huge trade deficit. He has chided America's policy makers and corporate leaders for thinking the country could prosper by forsaking manufacturing and focusing on financial services.
 In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Immelt warned that the United States had lost its competitive edge in many areas -- falling behind other countries, for example, in green industries like solar power and wind turbines. He noted that the nation had a trade surplus in high-technology products in 2000, but a $50 billion high-tech deficit in 2007.
 ''The country has got to get better at exporting for its long-term health,'' Mr. Immelt said, echoing a theme in recent speeches and broadcast appearances. ''The only way you get better at exporting is you have to get better at manufacturing. The ability to make high-tech products at low cost is something the U.S. has to get good at.''
 He said the United States should aim to have manufacturing jobs represent at least 20 percent of all jobs, twice today's percentage. The nation has lost 30 percent of its factory jobs this decade
 Mr. Immelt pointed to the moves in Schenectady and Louisville to make clear that G.E. was putting its money where its mouth is -- or was at least starting to. In addition, Mr. Immelt announced with great fanfare in June that G.E. planned to build a $100 million, 1,100-employee research center 25 miles west of Detroit. 
 Like his predecessor, John F. Welch Jr., Mr. Immelt often tells G.E.'s labor unions that production costs must be competitive to keep factories from closing and moving to Mexico or China. 
 To help persuade G.E. to expand in Schenectady and Louisville, members of the International Union of Electrical Workers-Communications Workers of America voted to accept a two-year wage freeze and a lower wage tier for new employees. In return, G.E. promised not to move any operations from there for two years.
 ''Labor sees the need to be more competitive than in decades past,'' Mr. Immelt said. ''After everything that happened in Detroit, it points to more alignment between management and labor. My sense is this is a different day.''
 The union leaders agreed, sort of. 
 ''Bringing any new product line here is great,'' said Carmen DePoalo, leader of the G.E. union local in Schenectady. 
 He voiced dismay about the concessions, including the two-tier wage structure in which new workers will earn around $17 an hour, $10 less than most current workers.
 With G.E.'s Schenectady work force falling to 5,000 from 40,000 during World War II, Mr. DePoalo praised Mr. Immelt's comments about doing more manufacturing in the United States. 
 ''But I'd love to see him walk the talk,'' he said. ''There are good signs, but you still see that G.E. has a lot of operations offshore. We are positioned better with Immelt than we were with Jack Welch. Immelt understands that manufacturing still needs to be part of this country being successful.''
 In Louisville, where G.E. produces clothing washers, dishwashers and refrigerators, the workers voted two-to-one for the concessions to help attract the water heater factory. G.E. says the heaters will save households $250 annually by taking heat from the surrounding air to help warm the water.
 ''We haven't had a new product here since the 1950s,'' said Jerry Carney, president of the union local in Louisville. ''This new product has awoke a sleeping dinosaur. It gave us life.''
 ''G.E. was going to try to sell us off, and the next thing you know they want to expand manufacturing,'' Mr. Carney added. ''If we stay with G.E., what we got to do is stay competitive to get them to stay here.'' Mr. Immelt praised Mr. Obama's push to expand the nation's green industries. 
 ''If the U.S. really became the world leader in green energy, more than a million high-level manufacturing jobs would be part of that,'' he said. ''Basically, you have to capture one or two of these big global industries to drive the seismic change we need in our manufacturing base.''
 Harley Shaiken, an expert on globalization in manufacturing at the University of California at Berkeley, said it was important that the head of such a prominent company was embracing manufacturing.
 ''In the 1980s Sony's president used that famous phrase about the hollowing out of the manufacturing economy in the U.S.,'' Mr. Shaiken said. ''Immelt is essentially saying a quarter century later that the hollowing out has continued and is dangerous, and we need to reverse that process. That's significant, but it represents just a first step.''
 Mr. Immelt said he had long talked about the importance of manufacturing competitiveness and exporting -- G.E. exported $19 billion in goods last year, led by exports of jet engines and power-generating and medical equipment. He said he had stepped up his comments because the economy was so ill and because increasing competitiveness would help restore the economy's long-term health.
 He said he was not focusing on manufacturing to distract from troubles with G.E.'s stock price and with its financing arm G.E. Capital. 
 In an unusual admission, Mr. Immelt said G.E. had outsourced too many operations in some areas. He said the company planned to ''insource'' some research to the Michigan center and some production of appliances and aviation components.
 The United States could learn from China, he said in a recent speech in Detroit. ''They've been growing fast because they invest in technology and they make things,'' he said. ''They have no intention of letting up in manufacturing in order to evolve into a service economy. They know where the money is, and they aim to get there first. America has to get back in that game.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker inspects a steam turbine rotor at a G.E. factory in Schenectady, N.Y. G.E. is building a new 350-employee plant to make high-density batteries as part of what the chief executive Jeffrey R. Immelt says is a commitment to American manufacturing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GE ENERGY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (87%); WIND ENERGY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (89%); JACK WELCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



175 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 JAPAN'S FIRST JURY SINCE 1943 FINDS MAN GUILTY OF MURDER
 Japan's first jury trial since World War II included a panel of three judges and six jurors. The jury sentenced a Tokyo man to 15 years in prison. PAGE A4 
 BRITAIN'S OLDEST WARRIOR 
 Thousands of mourners gathered in Wells, England, for the funeral of Harry Patch, a veteran of World War I who spoke of the futility of war. PAGE A5 
 5 U.S. MARINES KILLED
 Five Marines were killed in Afghanistan, four of them by a roadside bomb. It was one of the bloodiest attacks in recent weeks. PAGE A6 
 FATAH POSTPONES ELECTIONS
 With stormy meetings on voting procedures, leaders of Fatah, the Palestinian nationalist movement, extended the party's conference and delayed elections. PAGE A7 
 FATE OF TALIBAN CHIEF
 Officials in Washington and Islamabad were scrambling to make sense of intercepted communications that seemed to indicate a C.I.A. missile strike had killed the leader of the Pakistani Taliban. PAGE A7 
 U.S. SUPPORT IN SOMALIA
 Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton met with the president of Somalia, expressing support and warning Eritrea against supporting militants in the country. PAGE A7 
 Turkish-Russian Energy Deals A7 
 Corruption Stirs Brazil's Leaders A8 
 U.S. Plane, Sunk in 1942, Found A8 
 Obituaries
 DONALD MARSHALL JR., 55
 His wrongful conviction for murder led to a re-examination of Nova Scotia's legal system and Canada's evidence disclosure rules. PAGE A18 
 National
 BIRTH RATE IS SAID TO FALL, AND SOME BLAME THE SLUMP
 For the first time since the decade began, Americans are having fewer babies, and some experts are blaming the economy. PAGE A9 
 FLORIDA'S ANGLERS DIVIDED
 While some fishermen ignore a new state law requiring them to buy a license, others say ocean research is worth the fee. PAGE A9 
 PARTIAL PARDON FOR 3 SAILORS
 Gov. Tim Kaine of Virginia issued a partial pardon to three sailors who were convicted in a 1997 murder and rape case that became a popular example of wrongful convictions. The sailors' sentences were reduced to time served. PAGE A9 
 ADMISSIONS CALLED TAINTED
 Top officials at the University of Illinois developed a sophisticated shadow admissions process for the well-connected, a state commission set up to investigate irregularities at the institution concluded. PAGE A10 
 WARNING ON CLIMATE BILL
 Ten Senate Democrats from states dependent on coal and manufacturing sent a letter to President Obama saying they would not support any climate change bill that did not protect American industries. PAGE A12 
 New York
 JUDGE'S RISE STIRS REFLECTION AND PRIDE FOR PUERTO RICANS
 The Senate's approval of Judge Sonia Sotomayor's nomination to the Supreme Court is a milestone for Puerto Rican New York. PAGE A14 
 RIDING WITH CARGO? PAY UP
 A fee might make maneuvering past giant suitcases, enormous TVs and even refrigerators a thing of the past on the New York City subway. NYC by Clyde Haberman. PAGE A14 
 Business
 GOVERNORS FEAR THE COSTS OF OVERHAULING HEALTH CARE
 The recession has eroded state finances while swelling Medicaid ranks. And as Congress weighs bills to reform health care, governors are worried that their states will be given new Medicaid obligations they cannot meet. PAGE B1
 THE BRITISH TAX EXILES
 British authorities have started to crackdown on a timeworn practice: moving one's main residence to a tax haven like Monaco while maintaining ties in Britain. PAGE B1 
 FEARS OF BAD DEBT IN CHINA
 Some economists are worried that China, whose economy grew by 7.1 percent in the first half of the year, used too much state-directed lending that could result in a soaring number of defaults. PAGE B1 
 G.E. TO ADD 2 U.S. PLANTS
 For the first time in decades, General Electric is building new factories in the United States, underlining what the company says is a new commitment to producing in the America. PAGE B3 
 Societe Generale Executive Exits B2 
 July Was Sluggish for Retailers B3 
 Saving the Post Office B3 
 Urgency for New Car Models B4 
 Sports
 IN TALENT-RICH SEC, THE SPREAD GROWS AT HOME
 The popularity of the spread offense, which emphasizes speed, has not completely replaced the rugged culture of SEC football, as it has in other conferences. But there have been adjustments. PAGE B11 
 PITCHER GIVEN 30 DAYS IN JAIL
 A minor league pitcher was convicted for throwing a baseball and injuring a fan during a brawl in Dayton last summer. PAGE B12 
 Weekend
 'AMERICAN IDOL' TO SEARCH FOR A NEW FOURTH JUDGE
 Executives at Fox Broadcasting said they would fill the chair left empty by Paula Abdul, who said this week she was leaving the program after eight seasons. PAGE C1 
 Escapes
 SPLASH, SOAK AND SIP IN THE SARATOGA SPRINGS
 The benefits of the mineral baths at Saratoga Spa State Park in New York include Victoria Pool, the nation's first heated pool, and a healthy dose of history. PAGE C27 
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A17 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (95%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MURDER (90%); WORLD WAR II (90%); SENTENCING (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WORLD WAR I (78%); TALIBAN (78%); PARDONS (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); AL FATAH (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (71%); CORRUPTION (70%); CHILDREN (69%); CLIMATE CHANGE (69%); APPROVALS (68%); CLIMATOLOGY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (65%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (64%); SPORT FISHING (63%); OCEANOGRAPHY (62%); SOTOMAYOR HEARINGS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); TIM KAINE (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); SONIA SOTOMAYOR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (54%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOMALIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ERITREA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



176 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 317 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Will Pay Back $950 Million in Aid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Morgan Stanley said Thursday that it had agreed to pay $950 million to buy back a warrant it issued to the federal government last fall as part of the broad financial rescue plan. 
 In a statement, Morgan Stanley said that it would have paid the government nearly $1.3 billion, including dividends, for the $10 billion the firm received as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Morgan Stanley paid back the investment in June, as did several other firms, including Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase.
 With the repayment of the warrant, Morgan Stanley will free itself of a government investment that came with strings attached, particularly oversight over salaries and bonuses.
 Like Goldman, American Express and others, Morgan Stanley bought back its government warrant directly. But JPMorgan, which has long claimed that it did not need federal assistance, chose to let the government auction off its warrant, believing that the instrument was overvalued by the Treasury Department.
 But a Congressional oversight panel said last month that the Treasury could be undervaluing billions of dollars' worth of stock warrants that it had received from the banks. 
 In a statement, John J. Mack, Morgan Stanley 's chairman and chief executive, struck a positive note on the government's bailout, pledging to work with regulators and Congress to try to forestall another financial crisis. The firm, which has reported three consecutive quarterly losses, was considered by analysts to be more in need of the rescue package than some of its competitors.
 ''Morgan Stanley is pleased to be repurchasing this warrant and providing U.S. taxpayers a 20 percent annualized return on their investment in our company,'' Mr. Mack said. ''We appreciate the critical role that the U.S. government played last fall in helping stabilize the banking industry and financial markets at a moment of unprecedented crisis.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBSCRIPTION WARRANTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (71%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); COMPANY LOSSES (65%); AUCTIONS (53%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (94%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



177 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 676 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Considers Changes At Phibro

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Will Citigroup turn loose its $100 million man, Andrew J. Hall? 
 After putting out feelers to sell its Phibro commodities business, including a brief talk with the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett, Citigroup is considering a variety of options. Among them is a deal that would give control of the unit to Mr. Hall, the energy trader who runs Phibro, two people close to the negotiations said. 
 Mr. Hall's nine-figure payday -- and his insistence that his contract be honored -- has become a political hot potato for Citigroup, whose compensation practices are about to be reviewed by the Treasury Department's pay czar. 
 The talks over Phibro's fate are continuing and several options are under discussion, but there is no obvious path. 
 After the talks with Mr. Buffett went nowhere -- they were characterized as casual, with no firm discussion of a price -- Citigroup executives are considering what to do next. One option would be to transform Phibro into a partnership headed by Mr. Hall. Under that plan, Citigroup would become a limited partner, reducing its share of Phibro's profits, but the bank would have to find outside investors for Phibro. 
 It is unclear how much Phibro might be worth if it were sold or how much outside investors might put into the company.
 Other options include asking Mr. Hall and other Phibro traders to work without contracts that guarantee them a percentage of the profits, bringing in new leadership or closing the company. 
 ''We are evaluating the best way forward for stakeholders,'' a Citigroup spokeswoman, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, said. 
 Mr. Buffett, considered by many to be one of the greatest investors of all time, has a long history with Phibro. In the early 1990s, he sat on the board of Salomon Brothers, the Wall Street bank that owned Phibro at the time. Salomon and Phibro later became part of Citigroup. 
 Mr. Buffett has become something of a go-to investor during the financial crisis. Berkshire Hathaway, the conglomerate he runs, invested in Goldman Sachs last autumn on highly favorable terms. Berkshire is expected to report robust quarterly profits on Friday. Mr. Buffett could not be reached Thursday for comment. 
 Phibro is enormously profitable for Citigroup, which is struggling to turn around many of its other units. The trading operation generated about $2 billion for the bank over the last five years. 
 But whatever the economics, bailout politics are straining the relationship. Mr. Hall is the star of Phibro, in Westport, Conn. There is little doubt he is owed the money under his contract. But Citigroup was saved with roughly $45 billion in taxpayer aid, so its pay practices have come under public scrutiny. 
 While Mr. Hall is making headlines for demanding that the bank honor his $100 million contract, lesser lights at Citigroup and beyond expect to pull down at least seven figures this year, too. 
 The prospect of big paydays raises thorny questions for the government pay czar, Kenneth Feinberg, as he prepares to start reviewing compensation structures next week at companies that received bailouts. While Mr. Hall's contract with Citigroup is not in doubt, the prospect of paying large sums, even to the head of a unit raking in profits for Citigroup, could be untenable. 
 But Mr. Hall has plenty of options. Much of Phibro's value is thought to flow from his expertise and track record. If he leaves, he could start another firm and take colleagues with him. 
 Generally, Phibro takes advantage of unusual spreads between the spot price of oil and the price of an oil futures contract. 
 The company, for example, often wagers that the price of oil will rise so fast during a particular period, say six months, that it can make money by storing oil in supertankers and floating it until the price goes up. 
 Other deals are more complex. Right before the first gulf war, Phibro placed an elaborate bet that the price of oil would spike and then go down faster than others were anticipating. The company earned more than $300 million from the gamble. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); ENERGY MARKETS (73%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%); BAILOUTS (66%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



178 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: Culling the Gas Hogs

 BODY:
The ''cash for clunkers'' program seems to be doing its job: people flocked to dealerships to use the rebates and trade in their old vehicles for new, more efficient ones. Dealers estimate they sold nearly a quarter million cars under the plan, almost exhausting the program's $1 billion budget in about 10 days. The new cars achieved 10 miles per gallon more, on average, than the trade-ins. 
 This was an encouraging sign that incentives can persuade drivers to ditch gas hogs for smaller and more fuel-efficient cars. Congress was right to add $2 billion to extend the program until Labor Day. But the success of the program cannot obscure the fact that many Americans remain wedded to the guzzlers and that their enthusiasm for smaller, more efficient vehicles is likely to diminish once the clunkers money runs out. 
 Sales of pickup trucks and S.U.V.'s, which tumbled as gasoline reached $4 a gallon last year, started recovering market share as soon as gas prices receded. In June, before the clunkers program was switched on, about 25 percent fewer pickup trucks were sold than a year earlier. But June sales of compact cars were down by 42 percent. The Ford F-Series pickup, which was briefly bumped last year from its long-standing position as the nation's top-selling brand, regained its perch.
 The fuel-efficiency goals announced by the president in May could be a big step forward: a fleetwide average of 35.5 miles per gallon by 2016, a significant increase from today's fleetwide average of about 28 m.p.g. These standards will theoretically be reinforced by new limits on tailpipe emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas. 
 But some experts worry that loopholes could yet undermine Mr. Obama's goals. This has happened before. The original fuel economy standards enacted in the mid-1970s were later weakened by the so-called S.U.V. loophole, allowing carmakers to redefine S.U.V.'s and minivans as light trucks, which face much lower fuel-efficiency standards than ordinary cars. Consumers, enjoying cheap gasoline, flocked to the big vehicles, which soon dominated the market.
 Under the Obama plan, cars and light trucks would, as before, be governed by separate standards. But this time the manufacturers should be required to meet an overall target for their entire fleet. 
 Policy makers could do even more to push consumers in the right direction by giving them a clear financial incentive to buy fuel-efficient vehicles. And that, in turn, could mean a gas tax -- the most effective way we can think of to keep fuel prices high enough to make people think twice before buying a guzzler. One study of car sales from 1999 to 2007 concluded that a $1 increase in the price of gas cut the market share of S.U.V.'s by more than 11 percent and raised the market share of compacts by about 17 percent. 
 Any gas tax scheme should include some mechanism like tax credits to protect low-income consumers. But coupled with the new fuel economy standards, such a tax could take this country a long way toward reducing carbon emissions.
 Drivers embrace fuel economy when gas hits $4 a gallon. Some device is needed to encourage them when it drops below that. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (75%); MARKET SHARE (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); EMISSIONS (70%); FUEL TAX (70%); US LABOR DAY (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



179 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Some Will Look to Results of 2 Governor Races to See How Obama Is Doing

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Andrea Fuller contributed reporting from McLean, Va.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has returned to the campaign trail. He is appearing in television advertisements in New Jersey this week on behalf of Gov. Jon S. Corzine, the embattled Democrat struggling to win a second term. And he campaigned on Thursday evening alongside R. Creigh Deeds, the candidate for governor fighting to keep Virginia in the Democratic column.
 The New Jersey and Virginia races for governor are the only big-ticket political contests for 2009. And fairly or not -- Mr. Obama's advisers are not alone in arguing that the significance of these races does not extend beyond the boundaries of either state -- the contests are being held up as an early measure of how Mr. Obama is doing and a predictor of how Democrats might fare in next year's Congressional campaigns. 
 This is posing complications for the White House, as it dispatches Mr. Obama to help. Early polls show Republicans have staked out leads in the two states: Robert F. McDonnell, the former Republican attorney general, over Mr. Deeds to fill the seat being vacated by Tim Kaine, Democrat of Virginia, and Christopher J. Christie, a Republican former prosecutor, over Mr. Corzine in New Jersey.
 Officials in both parties say that in the end, the races will be driven by local forces and concerns and note that historically, state midterm elections have proved to be poor prognosticators about future elections. 
 Still, the confluence of these two races -- coming in the year after Mr. Obama's election and at a time when Democrats are trying to consolidate the gains they have made over the past two election cycles -- could prove the exception. The outcomes could affect party fund-raising, candidate recruitment and the confidence level of both parties.
 ''In this case, perception is reality,'' said Nick Ayres, the executive director of the Republican Governors Association. His counterpart at the Democratic Governors Association, Nathan Daschle, said, ''No matter what happens in either case, we'll all probably read too much into them.''
 Virginia and New Jersey are two very different states that could offer different perspectives about the direction of politics nationwide. If the country is moving in a Democratic direction, as Democrats like Bill Clinton have argued, Virginia is on the leading edge of that shift. Mr. Obama was the first Democrat to win a presidential election there since Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964. His campaign made it a top target in recognition of demographic shifts that have produced Democratic victories in two Senate races and two races for governor in recent years. The ability of Democrats to win the race for governor there this fall could be evidence of whether Mr. Obama's victory last year was part of a fundamental reshaping of the political map. 
 Mr. Obama took notice of the Democrats' situation in Virginia as he appeared with Mr. Deeds at a fund-raiser in McLean on Thursday evening.
 ''Let's be honest: This is going to be a tough race,'' he told the crowd. While the state was ''moving in the right direction, it's still a purple state.''
 And it is increasingly looking like the Virginia race could be cast as a verdict on Mr. Obama as well. Sensing that Mr. Obama's popularity is ebbing and that voters are turning against him on issues like health care, Republicans are signaling that they want to frame the Virginia race in part as a referendum on Mr. Obama. Mr. McDonnell has been attacking his policies on spending and health care, putting Mr. Deeds in a position that would have seemed unimaginable four months ago: having to distance himself from the president.
 ''The odd feature here now is just how much the climate has changed in a year,'' said Robert D. Holsworth, a professor of political science at Virginia Commonwealth University. ''It's the Republicans -- Bob McDonnell -- who are trying to nationalize the election by attempting to link Creigh Deeds with the national policies of the Democratic Party.''
 New Jersey may not offer as much of a national lesson as Virginia, unless the economy fails to show signs of improvement and Mr. Obama cannot get his health care proposal through Congress. The New Jersey race is more a race about a strikingly unpopular incumbent, Mr. Corzine, besieged with questions about everything from a corruption investigation to his handling of property taxes.
 ''Corzine's leadership on the economy is going to be the issue; the Republicans have shown they are going to attack him on that,'' Mr. Daschle said. ''But it's going to be what happened in New Jersey. It's not going to be about Obama or the health care plan.''
 If Republicans are seeking to put Mr. Obama on the ballot in Virginia, it is Democrats who are trying to do that in New Jersey. Mr. Obama won New Jersey by 15 points over Senator John McCain; the state has not gone Republican in a presidential race since 1988. Still, twin victories by Republicans in November would almost surely be taken as a judgment on the first year of the Obama White House. Michael Steele, the Republican National Committee chairman, has focused on the two races in the belief that winning New Jersey and Virginia would strengthen his own standing and help the party raise money and persuade Republicans who might be fearful about running to jump into the pool.
 ''If you look at the issues on which Jon Corzine is doing poorly, they predate the Obama administration,'' said Patrick Murray, the director of the Monmouth University Polling Institute in New Jersey. ''It doesn't matter what we say or think: If Corzine loses, it will be seen as an indictment of the Obama administration, and there's very little we can do to change that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama arrived Thursday to speak at a fund-raiser in McLean, Va., for R. Creigh Deeds, a candidate for governor.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); EXECUTIVES (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JON CORZINE (88%); TIM KAINE (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



180 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Trickle-Down Costs

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
The fraying of the nation's Medicaid system has many indicators, and one of them is Connie Baugh's stockings. 
 Ms. Baugh received a letter the other day from the state saying that as a result of budget cuts, Medicaid could no longer pay for the compression stockings that support her circulation and keep her aching leg ulcers from flaring. ''I thought, oh God, another problem,'' recalled Ms. Baugh, a 77-year-old retired dietitian. 
 At $239 a pair, the stockings are more than one-third the value of the monthly Social Security check she lives on.
 Such cutbacks, in response to the recession that has eroded state finances even while swelling Medicaid ranks, is the reason Washington's Democratic governor, Christine Gregoire, is among governors from both parties who fear the implications of the health care overhaul now being devised in Washington, D.C. 
 The governors worry Congress will give the states expensive new Medicaid obligations without providing enough new money to pay for them. 
 ''We can't afford to have Congress raise the eligibility for Medicaid coverage without paying for it,'' Ms. Gregoire said in an interview.
 If anything, the states' fears were stoked further last week when House lawmakers drafting health legislation reached a cost compromise with conservative Blue Dog Democrats that would force states to take on a greater Medicaid spending burden than an earlier version of the bill. 
 ''This is profoundly disappointing and makes a bad situation much worse,'' said Doug Porter, Washington State's Medicaid director. 
 In most respects, Ms. Gregoire is an outspoken supporter of President Obama's effort to overhaul health care. But she knows Washington State's Medicaid program is already under strain. The state's Medicaid enrollment has grown by more than 87,000 people since the recession began, to a current total of 951,543. Dental coverage, prenatal care and mental health care are among the medical and counseling services that have come under the budget knife. 
 And Mr. Porter, the state's Medicaid director, warns that an increasingly thin safety net could break if Congress expands Medicaid eligibility. 
 ''I can foresee a situation where states would say 'I don't have enough in general funds to put up my share of this new expanded Medicaid program, and I have to get out of the Medicaid program,' '' he said. ''That's what I think the doomsday scenario is here.''
 Under the various strands of legislation under consideration in Congress, as many as 11 million people who are now uninsured could become eligible for Medicaid. Currently, that program exceeds $340 billion in annual costs that are shared by the states and federal government. 
 The Congressional Budget Office had projected that federal Medicaid spending under the House bill could increase by over $430 billion over 10 years. The open question now is how much of that might become the states' new burden. 
 Criticism from state governors resonates because of its nonpartisan nature. But it is especially significant coming from Washington State, which has a politically liberal tradition of broad support for health care. 
 Under the House legislation, after the Blue Dog compromise, Medicaid eligibility would be expanded to many more people under age 65 with incomes at or below 133 percent of the poverty level -- about $14,400 a year for an individual. States would pay a share of the additional costs, perhaps 7 percent, in future years. The original House bill had the federal government paying all additional costs, with the states responsible only for some extra administrative expenses.
 Meanwhile, one of the plans being considered by Senator Max Baucus, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, would have the federal government pick up the full bill for any extra Medicare costs for five years. But after that, the states would share the new obligation with the federal government at a proportion that would vary from state to state. 
 Senate staff members say the governors are being heard, and that measures to cut other health care costs in the legislation will eventually alleviate their concerns.
 ''We are in close contact with a number of governors and will continue working with them to ensure health care is more affordable for families, businesses -- and state budgets,'' Mr. Baucus said in a statement.
 No state has yet dropped out of the federal Medicaid program since it was created in 1965. So it seems unlikely that a liberal state like Washington would be the first to do so. It has a tradition of generous Medicaid services, as well as state-subsidized medical coverage for low-income working people who do not qualify for Medicaid. 
 But it is within every state's power to slash its own Medicaid spending by tightening eligibility, limiting covered services and cutting reimbursement rates for health care providers. And during these fiscal hard times, that is precisely what Washington and many other states have done. Trimmed or gone altogether in various states is coverage for things like dental care, optometry, hearing aids and speech therapy, according to state Medicaid directors, who say that rising costs and expanding Medicaid rolls all but guarantee that more cuts will come. 
 Washington State, facing a $9 billion budget shortfall, has begun a planned $1.2 billion in cuts this year from its $6.6 billion Medicaid budget. 
 The cutting would have been even more drastic, state officials say, had it not been for the enactment of Mr. Obama's stimulus package, which provided Washington an extra $2 billion in financing for Medicaid. And the officials say more cuts are inevitable once the stimulus package financing runs out in October 2010, unless a second package is enacted.
 The cuts in Washington State seem to be affecting local clinics and other community health agencies that serve the poor. 
 Neighborcare Health, the leading provider of primary medical and dental care to low-income and uninsured patients in Seattle, relies on Medicaid reimbursements for more than 40 percent of its $35 million budget. As a result of the recent cuts, it is estimating a loss of $270,000 in monthly income, according to Katie Bell, the chief operating officer, even though patient volume is up this year by 7 percent.
 Ms. Bell said she and her staff were trying to find ways to minimize the impact on the organization and its 15,000 Medicaid patients -- about one-third of its clients.
 ''It keeps me up at night thinking that some of these patients could go without a nurse when they need to figure out how to use new medication,'' Ms. Bell said. ''Or they won't be able to get the dentures to fill in the gap in their front teeth so they can get a job and feed their families.'' 
 Elderhealth Northwest, a nonprofit agency providing long-term care for elderly residents of Seattle, has already had to close two of its six adult day health centers this month, cutting the number of patients who receive nursing and rehabilitative services to 975, down from 1,300. 
 ''I think these people will eventually end up in hospital emergency rooms and in nursing homes, where it will eventually cost the state more,'' said Nora Gibson, executive director of the agency. 
 One of Ms. Gibson's clients is Quincy Proctor, a 78-year retired Cadillac salesman who is afflicted by diabetes and various other ailments after a series of strokes.
 His financing for occupational therapy at a Seattle adult health center was cut off because he already received funds to live in an assisted-living boarding home. But the boarding home offers only limited exercise therapy, and he is abandoning the hope of eventually being able to leave his wheelchair and walk again. 
 ''This really hurts,'' Mr. Proctor said, fighting back tears. ''To stand up three times a week and get some of my strength back meant I could do some things by myself.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Connie Baugh of Seattle, center, wears compression stockings for leg ulcers, but Medicaid no longer pays for them.(B1)
 Quincy Proctor has had a series of strokes. His financing for occupational therapy at a Seattle adult health center was cut off.(B4)(PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (94%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); DENTAL INSURANCE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); MENTAL HEALTH (61%)

PERSON: CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (73%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



181 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMISTS SEE A LIMITED BOOST FROM STIMULUS

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even as the Obama administration braces for another grim report about job losses on Friday, economists say that the president's $787 billion stimulus package has helped blunt the downturn in limited but discernible ways.
 A report card on the stimulus plan offered by analysts nearly six months after it was passed by Congress suggests that the punch from increased government spending has helped the economy begin to bottom out faster than it would have otherwise. The tax cuts included in the plan, economists said, have had less of an impact because people tended to save the money or use it to pay down debt rather than spend it.
 The effectiveness of the stimulus package has emerged as one of the most pressing concerns facing the White House. The government will release a jobs report on Friday that is expected to show that the unemployment rate ticked up in July from 9.5 percent in June, providing Republicans and conservative economists new ammunition to argue that the stimulus has been a waste of taxpayer money.
 While there is a consensus that a fragile recovery is in the offing, the outlook remains murky. Still, analysts say the impact of the stimulus, while small, is discernible. 
 White House officials estimate that the stimulus program pumped about $100 billion into the economy through June. That was only a small share of the total projected spending, and much of the first wave came in the form of tax cuts, tax rebates and higher spending on safety-net programs like unemployment benefits and health care.
 Private analysts say they think it added at least 1 percentage point to economic growth in the second quarter. That was not enough to prevent the economy from shrinking and joblessness from rising, but the pace of the decline slowed substantially compared with the first quarter.
 ''The signs of the stimulus are there,'' said Allen L. Sinai, chief economist at Decision Economics, a forecasting firm in New York. ''Government -- federal, state and local -- is helping take the economy from recession to recovery. I think it's the primary contributor.''
 But even supporters of the stimulus program say its contribution to a recovery so far has been smaller than White House officials had estimated. 
 For one thing, Mr. Obama's stimulus program was only one component of a broader effort to combat the financial crisis. The Federal Reserve printed vast amounts of additional money, creating a raft of borrowing programs for financial institutions and businesses. It is in the process of buying up $1.25 trillion worth of mortgage-backed securities, a move that has pushed down mortgage costs for homeowners and new homebuyers. Meanwhile, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has further subsidized lower borrowing costs for Wall Street firms and banks by offering federal guarantees on the bonds they issue.
 ''If you look at all the other things that have been happening, it's hard to believe the stimulus program had that much direct effect,'' said Donald Marron, a former economic adviser to President George W. Bush and a former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
 Christina D. Romer, head of Mr. Obama's Council of Economic Advisers, said on Thursday that the stimulus program had probably lifted economic activity by two percentage points or more in the second quarter.
 ''The fiscal stimulus that the administration worked with Congress to create was not only bold but well conceived,'' Ms. Romer said in a speech to the Economic Club of Washington. ''Government spending had to satisfy genuine needs and leave us with useful public investments.''
 But direct government spending on infrastructure projects and other programs that create jobs immediately is only beginning to get under way. Much of the money so far has gone to people in the form of tax cuts and tax rebates, and consumers have tended to save that money rather than spend it.
 Though it makes sense for people to increase their savings during times of heightened insecurity -- especially for people who have lost large amounts of wealth as a result of falling home prices and falling stock prices -- the heightened saving reduced the immediate impact of the tax cuts on economic growth.
 Many economists have long argued that temporary tax cuts and rebates provide at most a transitory lift to consumer spending. That was the case with President George W. Bush's tax rebate in early 2008, just after the economy had begun to contract. The economy briefly returned to growth in the second quarter of 2008, then began shrinking at steadily faster rates immediately afterward.
 Consumer spending declined and consumer saving shot up during the first half of this year. After the government sent out $250 checks to Social Security recipients, the personal savings rate jumped to more than 5 percent. 
 Administration officials acknowledged that tax cuts deliver less bang for the buck than direct government spending. But tax cuts have the virtue of getting into the economy more quickly than money for new construction projects, because even ''shovel ready'' projects often take months to get started. They are also politically popular with Republicans and Democrats alike.
 Administration officials and private analysts predicted that the stimulus program's impact on the economy would increase in the months ahead, in part because the job-creating infrastructure projects would account for a bigger share of the outlays.
 At the same time, many analysts predict, the economy itself will have hit bottom and begun to grow again. Home building and home prices, which had fallen for almost three years, appear to have almost no place to go but up. Even if the home building grows little or not at all for the next year, the mere fact that it is not falling will remove a big obstacle to growth.
 The same is true for automobile manufacturing, which has been another primary cause of the shrinking economy. But the stimulus program has given car companies an added lift through the cash-for-clunkers program that offers rebates of up to $4,500 for people who trade in gas guzzlers for new cars. The Senate voted 60-37 on Thursday to spend $2 billion to extend the program.
 All told, some forecasters predict that the stimulus program could lift economic growth by as much as three percentage points in the months ahead, allowing the economy to expand at an annualized pace of almost 3 percent by the last quarter of this year.
 That hardly means that good times are right ahead. New estimates by the Commerce Department indicate that the United States economy shrank even more than originally thought in 2008 and through the first quarter of 2009. That means the country has to dig out of a deeper hole than originally thought, just to get back to its level before the recession began.
 On top of that, recoveries in employment always lag well behind recoveries in economic growth. Administration officials and the Federal Reserve all predict that unemployment could climb above 10 percent and is not likely to start edging down until some time in 2010. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christina D. Romer, head of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, in Washington.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)(B8) CHARTS: Is the Stimulus Program Working?: Though it is too early to determine the success or failure of President Obama's economic stimulus program, Democratic lawmakers say that a fragile recovery may have already begun. The rate of job loss and decline in G.D.P. has slowed in the second quarter of 2009.
GROWTH IN REAL G.D.P.: seasonally adjusted annual rate
GROWTH IN PAYROLL EMPLOYMENT: average in each quarter(Sources: Speech by Christina Romer, Council of Economic Advisors
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Bureau of Economic Analysis)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (92%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); BONDS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (62%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (62%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); CHRISTINA ROMER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



182 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 7, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Senate Adds Cash to 'Clunkers' Plan

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Senate approved providing another $2 billion for the ''cash for clunkers'' program on Thursday night, keeping it alive through the month of August. 
 Senators voted 60 to 37 to continue the auto-purchase program, which quickly spent the previously allocated $1 billion. President Obama is expected to sign the bill as soon as possible.
 The House approved an additional $2 billion last Friday, before its summer recess. That left the Senate with a take-it-or-leave-it proposition, because if it made any changes, the House would have to take up the Senate version in September. 
 The Senate spent much of the afternoon and evening slogging through seven proposed amendments, all of which were defeated. 
 ''We all know that if we change the bill it will die,'' said Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader. The Senate is scheduled to begin its August recess on Friday. In the end, the bill passed largely along party lines, with 51 Democrats, 2 independents and 7 Republicans voting for it.
 The ''cash for clunkers'' program offers rebates of $3,500 to $4,500 for trade-ins of vehicles with low fuel economy, if the buyer picks a more efficient replacement. The precise rules to qualify vary by category of vehicle. 
 The additional money is borrowed from another stimulus program, a loan program for green energy projects. But lawmakers want to replenish that, so the cash-for-clunkers extension spending will probably add to the federal deficit. 
 One amendment, offered by Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, would require that the program not place a burden on future generations. 
 The Obama administration has been arguing that the savings on gas spending would offset costs, and that the stimulus to the economy would be another benefit. Still, based on the popularity of the program, government officials expect that the additional $2 billion will be spent by Labor Day.
 Dealers say they have made about a quarter-million new car sales incorporating the rebate, but entering the applications into the government computer system has been slowed by computer problems. The Transportation Department said Wednesday that more than 180,000 deals had been submitted, with a rebate value of $775.2 million. 
 About 45 percent of the cars bought under the program are from American manufacturers, about the same share as the overall car market. And many of the other new vehicles bought are made in America by foreign automakers, the department said. 
 A crucial question is how much Americans will actually save on gasoline. The Transportation Department said shoppers had been turning in the bigger vehicles and buying small sedans, with an average improvement of 9.6 miles a gallon.
 But some industry experts pointed out that the ''clunkers'' being traded in tended to be the older vehicles kept as spare cars in multicar households, and driven very few miles every year. 
 ''The new car doesn't replace the clunker, it replaces the previous first car in the family,'' said Lee Schipper, a transportation expert and researcher at the University of California, Berkeley, and at Stanford University. 
 A question not addressed by the Senate was how long the clunkers would have been on the road anyway, absent the government payments. 
 Another question was how long the $2 billion would last and what would happen after that.
 Even R. L. Polk, the auto market consulting firm, predicted in July that the program would handle only 200,000 cars in 2009, but it appears to have done 250,000 in July alone.
 The program technically began on July 1, and some dealers began accepting trade-ins then. But the Transportation Department did not have the regulations written and the computers set up to accept applications until July 27, a Monday. 
 By that Thursday, although only a few thousand applications had been entered, the National Automobile Dealers Association told the Transportation Department that probably all the money had been committed. 
 The program caught public attention in a way that the Senate's other recent concerns like health care legislation have not. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A crane lifts a vehicle onto a junk heap in Medford, N.Y. Many scrapped vehicles are from the ''cash for clunkers'' program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (92%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); SEDANS (60%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2009



183 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: Job Growth Lacking In the Private Sector

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
FOR the first time since the Depression, the American economy has added virtually no jobs in the private sector over a 10-year period. The total number of jobs has grown a bit, but that is only because of government hiring.
 The accompanying charts show the job performance from July 1999, when the economy was booming and companies were complaining about how hard it was to find workers, through July of this year, when the economy was mired in the deepest and longest recession since World War II. For the decade, there was a net gain of 121,000 private sector jobs, according to the survey of employers conducted each month by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. In an economy with 109 million such jobs, that indicated an annual growth rate for the 10 years of 0.01 percent. 
 Until the current downturn, the long-term annual growth rate for private sector jobs had not dipped below 1 percent since the early 1960s. Most often, the rate was well above that.
 As can be seen from the charts, there were some areas of strength in the economy. Health care jobs continued to grow, particularly jobs that involve caring for the elderly. Home health care employment rose at an annual rate of 5 percent, a rate that indicates a total gain of more than 60 percent. On an annual basis, that was twice the overall rate for health care of 2.4 percent a year.
 There were also job gains in education and in a host of service industries, including lawyers (0.7 percent a year), accountants (0.9 percent) and computer systems designers (2.4 percent). The field of management and technical consulting leaped at an annual rate of 5 percent.
 But while designing computers and related equipment was a growth field, building them was a very different story, as the manufacturing shifted largely to Asia. The number of jobs making computer and electronic equipment in the United States fell at an annual rate of 4.4 percent, substantially more than the overall decline in manufacturing jobs, of 3.7 percent.
 That was a better showing than that of the automakers, which shed jobs at a rate of 6.7 percent a year. By contrast, auto dealers cut jobs at a much slower rate of 1.3 percent a year, although that rate may accelerate later this year as General Motors and Chrysler dealerships are closed.
 Hard as it may be to believe, the consumer economy of the United States actually lost retail jobs over the decade, at a rate of 0.2 percent. There were fewer people working in food stores. But the category of general merchandise stores -- like Wal-Mart and Costco -- showed an impressive gain of 1 percent a year, even though the category also includes department stores like Macy's, where the number of jobs has fallen.
 For a good part of the decade, the construction business was a growth industry. But there are now fewer jobs there than there were a decade ago.
 The total picture is of an economy that has changed in substantial ways over the decade. After the recession ends, job growth is likely to resume. But there is no indication that the secular trend toward a more service-oriented economy will reverse. A decade from now, there are likely to be still more jobs at architecture and engineering firms (up 1.2 percent a year over the last decade) and at bars and restaurants (up 1.8 percent a year). But few expect that manufacturing will reverse its long decline as a major employer in the United States. 

GRAPHIC: CHART: U.S. PRIVATE SECTOR EMPLOYMENT GROWTH: Annual rate of change over the preceding 10 years
 ANNUAL RATE OF CHANGE IN EMPLOYMENT: July 1999 to July 2009 (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); STATISTICS (88%); HEALTH CARE (87%); GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (83%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (67%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (67%); NEW CAR DEALERS (65%); RETAILERS (63%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); WORLD WAR II (55%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



184 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Attacks on Homeless Bring Push To Broaden Laws on Hate Crimes

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With economic troubles pushing more people onto the streets in the last few years, law enforcement officials and researchers are seeing a surge in unprovoked attacks against the homeless, and a number of states are considering legislation to treat such assaults as hate crimes.
 This October, Maryland will become the first state to expand its hate-crime law to add stiffer penalties for attacks on the homeless.
At least five other states are pondering similar steps, the District of Columbia approved such a measure this week, and a like bill was introduced last week in Congress. 
 A report due out this weekend from the National Coalition for the Homeless documents a rise in violence over the last decade, with at least 880 unprovoked attacks against the homeless at the hands of nonhomeless people, including 244 fatalities. An advance copy was provided to The New York Times. 
 Sometimes, researchers say, one homeless person attacks another in turf battles or other disputes. But more often, they say, the assailants are outsiders: men or in most cases teenage boys who punch, kick, shoot or set afire people living on the streets, frequently killing them, simply for the sport of it, their victims all but invisible to society. 
 ''A lot of what we see are thrill offenders,'' said Brian Levin, a criminologist who runs the Center for the Study of Hate and Extremism at California State University, San Bernardino. 
 Only Thursday, two homeless men in Hollywood were stabbed to death and a third was wounded in a three-hour spree of separate daylight attacks. The police arrested a 54-year-old local man who they said appeared to have made homeless people his random targets.
 Researchers say a combustible mix of factors has added fuel to the problem. Rising unemployment and foreclosures continue to push people into the streets, with some estimates now putting the nationwide number of homeless above one million. 
 And in cities like Las Vegas, public crackdowns on encampments for the homeless and cutbacks in social services have frequently made street people more visible as targets for would-be assailants.
 Further, in the last several years the Internet has seen a proliferation of ''bum fight'' videos, shot by young men and boys who are seen beating the homeless or who pay transients a few dollars to fight each other.
 Indeed, the National Coalition for the Homeless, which works to change government policies and bring people off the streets, says in its new report that 58 percent of assailants implicated in attacks against the homeless in the last 10 years were teenagers. 
 Michael Stoops, the group's executive director, said social prejudices were ''dehumanizing'' the homeless and condoning hostile treatment. He pointed to a blurb titled ''Hunt the Homeless'' in the current issue of Maxim, a popular men's magazine. It spotlights a coming ''hobo convention'' in Iowa and says: ''Kill one for fun. We're 87 percent sure it's legal.''
 With victims wary of going to the police, statistics on the attacks are often incomplete. But surveys show much higher rates of assault, rape and other crimes of violence against the homeless than almost any other group, said Professor Levin, of California State, who worked on the new report.
 Recognition of the problem is spurring legislative action.
 ''More and more, we're hearing about homeless people being attacked for no other reason than that they're homeless, and we've got to do something about it,'' Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson, Democrat of Texas, said in an interview. 
 Ms. Johnson introduced a measure in the House last week to make attacks on the homeless a federal hate crime and require the F.B.I. to collect data on it. (The Senate voted last month to expand federal hate crimes to include attacks on gay and transgender victims, another frequent target.)
 And in addition to the measures already approved in Maryland and the District of Columbia, proposals to add penalties for attacks on the homeless are under consideration in California, Florida, Ohio, South Carolina and Texas.
 The push has lacked any organized support by major civil rights groups. In Florida, which leads the country in assaults on homeless people, groups like the Anti-Defamation League have opposed recognizing those attacks as a hate crime. Opponents argue that homelessness, unlike race or ethnicity, is not a permanent condition and that such a broadening of the law would have the effect of diluting it.
 ''I hear the same rhetoric all the time,'' Ms. Johnson said. ''They ask, 'Why is their life more important than anyone else's?' ''
 The coalition's study, which relied on police and news reports but excluded crimes driven by factors like robbery, found 106 documented attacks against the homeless last year. 
 That was a doubling of levels seen six or seven years ago but a sharp drop from 2007, an apparent improvement that researchers are still trying to explain. The study found 27 fatalities last year, flat relative to the year before. Eight other victims were shot, nine raped and 54 beaten.
 In Portland, Ore., twin brothers were charged with five unprovoked attacks against homeless people in a park. One of the victims was a man beaten with his own bike, another a woman pushed down a steep staircase. 
 In Cleveland, a man leaving a homeless shelter to visit his mother was ''savagely beaten by a group of thugs,'' the police said. 
 In Los Angeles, a homeless man who was a neighborhood fixture was doused in gasoline and set on fire.
 In Boston, a homeless Army veteran was beaten to death as witnesses near Faneuil Hall reportedly looked on.
 And in Jacksonville, N.C., a group of young men fatally stabbed a homeless man behind a shopping strip, cutting open his abdomen with a beer bottle.
 In Las Vegas, home to a large population of the homeless, there were no reported killings of any of them last year, but many say hostilities have risen as the city moves to get them out of the parks and off the streets. 
 Some of the Las Vegas homeless resort to living in a maze of underground flood channels beneath the Strip. There they face flash floods, disease, black widows and dank, pitch-dark conditions, but some tunnel dwellers say life there is better than being harassed and threatened by assailants and the police.
 ''Out there, anything goes,'' said Manny Lang, who has lived in the tunnels for months, recalling the stones and profanities with which a group of teenagers pelted him last winter when he slept above ground. ''But in here, nothing's going to happen to us.''
 Their plight is a revealing commentary on the violence facing street people, said Matt O'Brien, a Las Vegas writer who runs an outreach group for the homeless. 
 ''It's hard to believe that tunnels that can fill a foot per minute with floodwater could be safer than aboveground Vegas,'' Mr. O'Brien said, ''but many homeless people think they are. No outsider is going to attack you down there in the dark.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A homeless couple who are making their life in the flood channels beneath the Las Vegas Strip. Many would rather live there than face the troubles above.
 Matt O'Brien, who advocates on behalf of the homeless, touring the flood channels. Flash floods may endanger those who stay there, he says, but at least they are safe from violence. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); HOMELESSNESS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); MEN (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); HATE CRIME (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); ARRESTS (72%); ADOLESCENTS (72%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (91%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2009



185 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: There's Value in Real Estate, if You Find Your Florida

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
THE last thing most people are thinking of investing in right now is real estate. The collapse of residential values stung almost all homeowners. And the commercial market, from offices to shopping malls, is full of uncertainty as unemployment rises and consumer spending continues to be weak.
 Yet there are those who argue that this is a once-in-a-generation opportunity to buy property. Greg Rand, managing partner at Better Homes and Gardens Rand Realty, a brokerage in the suburbs north of New York, even has a theory to guide investors. He calls it ''house rich.'' 
 Simply put, the days of buying almost anything and watching it appreciate are over. Those who want to make money in real estate now will have to do extensive research and expect to hold the property for at least a decade. 
 The crux of the idea is not buying a distressed property but ''finding your Florida.'' By that he means investing in a piece of real estate, be it residential or commercial, in a hard-hit place that has to rebound. 
 ''Florida is in a storm right now,'' Mr. Rand said. ''It's overdeveloped, overspeculated and overleveraged.''
 Yet, with 78 million baby boomers expected to retire in the next two decades, the state's long-term prospects are solid: a good proportion of them will want to be someplace warm and sunny when they stop working.
 Mr. Rand is not alone in this. Some of the biggest players in real estate see opportunity around the country. 
 ''We are now looking at one of those rare opportunities to invest in commercial real estate,'' said Hessam Nadji, managing director at Marcus & Millichap, a commercial real estate investment adviser based in Encino. Calif. ''There are plenty of properties in the $5 million to $20 million range, whether they're apartments or shopping centers, that are located in places where supply is constrained.'' 
 He added that these otherwise solid properties were for sale now because losses elsewhere were forcing their owners to raise money. 
 While many investors may not believe that real estate is returning as a steady, performing asset, the following criteria can guide those ready to re-enter the market. 
 DUE DILIGENCE Investing in real estate has always carried risk. But where many people went wrong was in taking a house vanity approach -- they bought their dream home without knowing how its price compared to either historical levels or the prices in nearby neighborhoods.
 Mr. Rand tells the story of the Trump Tower, in White Plains, which he represents. When the sales office opened during construction, buyers focused on the penthouse condominiums with views of Long Island and New York City. At that time in 2004, the going price for 2,200 square feet on a high floor was around $1.8 million, he said. That would seem to be a deal for a buyer in Manhattan, 30 miles south, but in White Plains, few single-family homes had ever sold for that much. 
 He said investors who bought units on lower floors -- priced closer to $700,000 -- did much better. The reason was that their fixed costs -- mortgage, fees and taxes -- were lower, which meant they could attract a larger pool of renters to cover their investment. 
 The lesson here was that anyone who really knew the White Plains market would have been more hesitant in buying a $2 million apartment as an investment. ''The key is due diligence over sex appeal,'' he said. 
 THE COSTS What makes or breaks any real estate investment is fixed costs. Investors need to know how they are going to cover the amount they have to pay, whether the property is rented or not. 
 In Trump Tower, the monthly fixed costs for the penthouse apartment were $11,100 with an expected rent in 2005 of $8,000, Mr. Rand said. On the lower floors, the costs and expected rent were the same, both about $5,000. 
 Any experienced real estate investor will tell you there are times when even the best properties, whether apartments or shopping centers, have vacancies and that means some of those costs fall on the investor.
 This sounds obvious, but from 2005 until early last year, there were plenty of amateur investors who only realized this after their tenants left. 
 What signals a return to understanding that basic principle is a return of savvier investors. 
 ''A lot of people who are coming back into the market that I've known for decades are saying the market is normalizing again,'' said Harvey E. Green, president and chief executive at the commercial real estate brokerage Marcus & Millichap, and a 40-year veteran of the real estate market. The years ''2005, 2006, and 2007 were the frothiest part of the marketplace, and these people stepped out on the sidelines.''
 In other words, the smart money is back after years of watching. 
 YOUR GOALS Consider the South Florida market again. Many people who got caught had visions of renters covering all the costs on properties they bought. When renters became scarce and values plummeted, these investors did not have a backup plan. A better way is to set a goal for the investment. Do you want to add to your cash flow immediately or can you afford to take a longer view of 10 to 15 years? 
 If your goal is to make money now, you will probably have to buy an older property and fix it up. This requires a more active role, and still, the return will not be what it was at the peak. 
 Mr. Nadji said investors in Class B commercial real estate -- solid but not marquee properties -- can expect returns in the high single digits. But most of those properties are not likely to appreciate in value for two or three years. 
 With a longer view, the options change. Ruth Trettis, a broker at Premier Properties in Naples, Fla., said one investor bought nine homes, worth more than $32 million, in the last year in Port Royal, the town's most affluent neighborhood. Another investor bought three homes in Port Royal worth $14 million over a single weekend in May and a fourth one last month for $13.5 million (it was listed at $19.9 million). 
 So far, she said, neither buyer has done anything with the properties. Even though both bought these houses at steep discounts, the costs of just holding them are immense. But they clearly have a long-term goal and a belief in the area. 
 THE RISKS Real estate is like every investment today. Experts and amateurs alike have strong opinions on what will work and what won't. 
 The message within the real estate market itself is mixed. Last week's report on flat home sales from April to May seemed to be heartening, but it was misleading. Homes sell better as the weather warms up. The better indicator of a bottom will come when year-on-year numbers are flat, and those have yet to appear. 
 The one upside is inflation, or at least the fear of inflation. Hard assets like real estate historically do well when there is inflation.
 What this means is the longer your time horizon for investing in property, the better your chance of achieving real returns. 
 ''Real estate was never a short-term investment,'' Mr. Green said. ''It was just in that frothy market.'' 
 In this sense, the one certainty is that the age of the flipper is behind us.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Greg Rand, managing partner at Better Homes and Gardens Rand Realty, says this is a good opportunity to buy property, if investors do due diligence.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RETAILERS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



186 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Job Market Blues

 BODY:
According to the Labor Department's latest jobs report, employers eliminated 247,000 jobs last month. And that's the good news. Job loss in July was at its lowest level since last August, and it would have been much worse if not for recent federal stimulus spending. 
 Still, the job market is in serious decline. No one knows when it will hit bottom, but when it does the American work force will find itself in a very deep hole. 
 As of July, the economy was coming up short by 9.1 million jobs, including 6.7 million jobs that have been axed since the recession began 20 months ago, and 2.4 million jobs that were needed to absorb new workers, but were never created. 
 And that is not the only sign of labor-market weakness. At 9.4 percent, the jobless rate for July was slightly lower than in June. But the decline doesn't reflect an improving jobs picture. Rather, it is the result of a contraction in the size of the labor pool -- 422,000 people dropped out of the work force altogether last month. That is the second biggest surge of dropouts since the start of the recession. 
 In a strong economy, dropping out may be a lifestyle choice, like deciding to become a stay-at-home parent. In today's weak economy, it invariably reflects a deep and prolonged lack of job prospects. 
 Millions of out-of-work Americans need more help. 
 When Congress returns after Labor Day, its first task must be to extend unemployment compensation for those whose benefits expire in September. Congress should also extend the extra jobless benefits from the stimulus bill, rather than leaving them hostage to a protracted debate over another, broader stimulus package. The extras, which expire at the end of the year, include an additional $25 a week, a tax exemption for jobless benefits and a subsidy for health coverage for the unemployed. As modest as they are, they are needed.
 President Obama and his aides must begin to detail their plans to create new jobs. Over the next several years, low-wage occupations will add the most jobs. What will the administration do to improve the wages and working conditions of nurse's aides, food service workers and other low-wage workers? What is its plan for creating middle-class jobs? Are additional investments in job creation -- beyond the stimulus -- forthcoming? If not, what will replace the lost jobs of this recession? 
 The American work force is too big to fail, and should be treated that way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); TAX LAW (64%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (62%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



187 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TALKING BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: It's Time To Stay The Courier

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
So you think your business has problems.
 Consider the plight of John E. Potter, the chief executive of the second-largest employer in America. On the one hand, he has a guaranteed monopoly for much of his business. On the other hand, monopoly or not, the combination of the Internet and the recession is absolutely crushing his company, just as it is for so many other companies across the country. His last quarter's results, which were announced on Wednesday, revealed a loss of $2.4 billion. The business is on track to lose a staggering $7 billion in 2009, on around $68 billion in revenue. That's practically General Motors territory.
 What can he do to fix the situation? Surprisingly little. His employees have clauses in their union contracts that forbid layoffs. Nor can he renegotiate their gold-plated benefits, the way, say, the auto companies did when their backs were against the wall. Political pressure makes it nearly impossible to shut down any of his company's 34,000 facilities, no matter how outmoded or little used. He can borrow money, but under the law, he can add only $3 billion in debt a year -- an amount that isn't going to come close to covering his losses. 
 Oh, and get this. Every year between now and 2016, he has to put aside over $5 billion to finance health benefits for future employees. You read that right: future employees. There isn't another business in the country that finances benefits for employees it hasn't even hired yet.
 Welcome to John Potter's world. He's the nation's postmaster general. Yes, that's right: for the last nine years, he has run the United States Postal Service, which, since 1970, when it stopped being a government department and started becoming self-sufficient, has been the oddest of ducks. It is expected to operate as a business, turning a profit and so on, and yet it is still subject to Congressional oversight and all sorts of legal constraints, like that ridiculous health benefit prefinancing for future employees, which was part of a big 2006 postal reorganization bill. (Its main purpose, it would seem, is government accounting: those funds get counted against the federal deficit.)
 Even so, until recently, Mr. Potter had had a pretty successful run. A smart, likable, lifelong Postal Service executive, he got it through the anthrax crisis early in his tenure. He saw it through 9/11 (in no small part by engaging Federal Express to fly long-distance mail during the day, when its planes were empty, something it still does). He has overseen productivity gains and, according to a poll conducted by Rasmussen Reports, a rise in customer satisfaction. Between 2001 and 2006, he even eliminated the Postal Service's $11.3 billion debt. That year, 2006, was also when demand for mail service peaked, with 210 billion pieces delivered.
 But the last few years have been brutal. The Postal Service lost more than $5 billion in 2007, and another $2.4 billion in 2008. And, of course, it is on track to lose that whopping $7 billion in the current fiscal year. (Its fiscal year ends in September.) The amount of mail being sent is dropping like a stone -- it will be down to 175 billion pieces in 2009. Mr. Potter has reduced the Postal Service's head count to 650,000, from 800,000, almost entirely through attrition. He has cut costs every way he can think of. And still the losses mount. 
 A few weeks ago, the Government Accountability Office added the Postal Service to its list of ''high risk'' federal agencies, meaning that it is in such dire straits that it needs ''to restructure to address its current and long-term financial viability.'' Indeed, if something doesn't change by the fall, the Postal Service will have to renege on those health benefit prepayments -- despite its legal obligation to pay them -- or start missing payroll. ''U.S.P.S. must align its costs with revenues, generate sufficient earnings to finance capital investments, and manage its debt,'' the G.A.O. said. Just like any real business would.
 ''If you are asking me to run it like a business, give me the same tools that someone would have in the private sector,'' Mr. Potter said when I spoke to him recently.
 But as I discovered on Thursday, when I watched a Senate hearing on the current Postal Service crisis, that's not likely to happen. For one thing, Mr. Potter isn't really asking for the tools he needs to turn the Postal Service into a real business. He is asking Congress to relieve it from the health prepayments, which he is likely to get, at least temporarily. He is also asking that the Postal Service be allowed to reduce mail service to five days a week, and to eliminate some postal branches. These aren't exactly revolutionary ideas -- yet they are viewed as highly controversial in Congress, which frets that constituents might get angry if the local postal branch closes. 
 But even if Mr. Potter were to get his way on these two items, they would still be only stop-gap measures that fail to tackle the bigger question. As the Internet continues to erode the use of snail mail, does the Postal Service's business model still make sense? Do we even still need the government to deliver the mail anymore?
 To me, the answer is obvious: no.
 Think for a minute about the mail that comes into your home. In the modern age, very little of it is personal mail. The vast majority is commercial mail of some sort -- advertisements, bills, movies from Netflix or catalogs. Once upon a time, said Rick Geddes, an associate professor in the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell University, the postal service was viewed as ''a way to bind together the nation. In subsidizing mail service to rural communities you were keeping them connected to the rest of the country.'' But today, he added, ''it is kind of silly to say we are binding together the nation through advertisements and catalogs.'' 
 These days, the main justification for keeping the postal service as a quasi-government entity is the belief that no private company would be willing to deliver the mail to sparsely populated rural areas of the country. People fear that it would be a little like airline deregulation: communities that weren't large enough to justify flights in the newly deregulated environment lost their carriers. 
 But that mission of universal service has all but blinded just about everyone connected with the Postal Service. Congressmen -- many of whom, after all, come from rural areas -- are loath to give the Postal Service too much free rein for fear that Mr. Potter's minions will start shutting down post offices. (Never mind that 2,000 of them serve fewer than 100 people each.) The postal unions, with their no-layoff clauses, have used universal service to justify benefits so generous the Postal Service would save $600 million just by bringing them in line with other federal employees.
 As for Mr. Potter himself, while he may want more freedom to run the Postal Service like a real business, he, too, seemed surprisingly wedded to outmoded ideas about mail service in America. ''This country needs to have and to protect universal service,'' he said. ''Our business is all about making sure every American can stay connected with every other American.''
 I failed to ask him the obvious follow-up question: Don't e-mail messages now do that?
 For most of us, of course, it does -- and that will increasingly to be the case, as broadband makes it way into, yes, even those rural areas that everyone is so worried about. Michael A. Crew, a professor of regulatory economics at Rutgers told me that that while the Postal Service's ''short-term situation is bleak, its long-term situation is really bleak.'' He is one of a number of experts who say they believe that even when the recession ends, the Postal Service's woes won't be over. As businesses look to save money in the recession, for instance, they are starting to do end-arounds the Postal Service. Online bill-paying is become ever more popular. Evite is starting to replace mailed invitations to parties. None of that business is ever coming back.
 Which is why, instead of trying to find short-term, piecemeal solutions to the current crisis, those involved in managing and overseeing the Postal Service ought to be thinking harder thoughts about blowing up its business model. Maybe the Postal Service should turn itself into a giant outsourcer, handling some tasks but handing out others, for a fee, to more efficient companies. Maybe the government should allow companies to bid on lucrative urban delivery -- with the proviso that they also deliver to rural areas. Maybe some areas should get mail deliveries less frequently than others. Maybe there should be radically different pricing structures. Maybe it should even lose its monopoly on first-class mail. I mean, why not? 
 Mr. Geddes, the Cornell professor, says he believes that the only solution is for the Postal Service to become ''just another company'' -- lose its monopoly, shed its bureaucratic mind-set, become able to negotiate freely with its unions, and answer to shareholders instead of Congress, which is always going to resist significant change that might upset a constituent. Only when that happens will it be able to bring its costs in line with its revenue. 
 ''The post office is not broken,'' Mr. Potter insisted. But surely it is. And its current crisis brings to mind Rahm Emanuel's line that you never want a serious crisis to go to waste.
 Alas, here in the middle of its worst financial crisis ever, the Postal Service and Congress seem utterly intent on wasting it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Congress expects the Postal Service, run by John E. Potter, to turn a profit, but also wants a say in its operation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); POSTAL SERVICE (68%); ANTHRAX (64%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (53%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



188 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Posts Its First Quarterly Profit Since 2007

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The American International Group reported a quarterly profit on Friday, its first since late 2007, saying that parts of its business had stabilized and that an accounting change had been favorable. 
 But A.I.G.'s results for the second quarter also revealed some troubles in its core insurance units. Premiums for insurance sold to businesses declined by 19 percent from a year earlier, while premiums in its life insurance units fell by 15 percent. 
 A.I.G. said premiums had slowed because of the recession and its own unwillingness to lower prices too much. But industry observers thought the trends did not bode well. 
 ''They dress it up with fancy words, but if I see your premium going down, you can't tell me business is good,'' said Andrew Barile, an insurance consultant in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. 
 In addition, the company disclosed that it had drawn money from the federal government to shore up its domestic life insurance companies in the latest quarter. Those units were damaged in recent years after A.I.G. took securities out of their investment portfolios and lent them to traders, a risky venture that ultimately led to big losses. 
 A.I.G. pumped billions of dollars from the government into its securities lending program late last year, in part to supply additional capital for the life insurers. Then it disbanded the program.
 The company said that as of June 30, it had contributed $2.2 billion to the insurers' capital this year, more than half of it from the United States Treasury, to keep the life insurers' risk-based capital ratios solid. 
 State insurance commissioners look at risk-based capital ratios when deciding whether an insurance company is financially strong or needs additional capital to stay in business and assure its policyholders can be paid.
 Mark Herr, a spokesman for A.I.G., said the capital needs of the life insurance subsidiaries this year were unrelated to the securities-lending program. He said the life insurance companies had suffered as their investment portfolios lost value. 
 It was not immediately clear which of the life insurance subsidiaries received additional capital, because state filings for the latest quarter are not yet available. Among those that received contributions earlier this year were A.I.G. Life Insurance, of Delaware; Western National, American General Life and the Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company, all of Texas; and the American International Life Insurance Company of New York. 
 The subsidiaries also reported as of March 31 that they were still waiting to get their assets back from the disbanded securities-lending program. 
 Over all, A.I.G.'s net income for the second quarter was $1.8 billion, in contrast to a $5.3 billion loss in the second quarter of 2008. The federal government accounts for $1.5 billion of that, as it is the company's biggest shareholder after the bailout last fall. 
 That leaves a profit of $311 million, or $2.30 a share, for A.I.G.'s common shareholders. 
 ''Our results reflect stabilization in certain of our businesses,'' said Edward M. Liddy, the chairman and chief executive installed by the government during A.I.G.'s rescue last fall. Mr. Liddy, who is stepping down, said one of the primary drivers of the second-quarter profit was a slowdown in investment losses, partly from an accounting change and partly from a general improvement in market conditions. 
 The company's results also underscored how much A.I.G. has to pay for its emergency rescue by the government. Its biggest single expense for the quarter was $894 million in interest and principal paid to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
 In a statement on Friday morning, Mr. Liddy warned that there would be more earnings volatility in the coming months, as the company continued to reorganize and sell its businesses to repay the Fed. In particular, he warned of a possible $5 billion pretax accounting charge when the company completed two previously announced exchanges of debt for equity with the Fed. 
 Mr. Liddy said the company's insurance businesses ''remain challenged'' because of ''weak economic conditions and the lingering effect of negative A.I.G. events earlier in the year,'' a reference to the public outrage last March, when the company paid bonuses after reporting the biggest losses in corporate history. 
 The company has paid roughly $250 million in bonuses this year, under a plan set up at the beginning of 2008 to help retain employees. The uproar as word of the bonuses leaked out in March prompted the Treasury Department to impose new compensation restraints for all companies on government life support. 
 Mr. Liddy said at the time that the A.I.G. name brand had been ''thoroughly wounded and disgraced.'' The company has been marketing its insurance products under different names since then. 
 Friday's earnings report concluded Mr. Liddy's 10-month tenure, which he took at the government's request at a salary of $1 a year. He will be succeeded on Monday by Harvey Golub, a former head of American Express, as chairman, and by Robert H. Benmosche, a former chief of MetLife, as chief executive.
 David J. Merkel, a former life insurance actuary for A.I.G., said he thought Mr. Benmosche would bring the kind of expertise with life insurance that might now be needed, given the continuing weakness at the life and annuity subsidiaries. 
 Mr. Merkel, now chief economist at Finacorp Securities, gathered all of A.I.G.'s state regulatory files for 2008, reviewed each insurance company's finances and concluded that seven of its life insurers could have been deemed insolvent and shut down last year had it not been for the federal rescue. 
 A.I.G. declined to comment on his observations.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Liddy, A.I.G.'s chairman, last March. ''Our results reflect stabilization in certain of our businesses,'' he said Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TRENDS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); VARIABLE LIFE INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE POLICIES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (72%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (72%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (93%); VARIABLE ANNUITY LIFE INSURANCE CO (62%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (93%); 8685 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (93%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (62%)

PERSON: EDWARD M LIDDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



189 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Year After Georgian War, Rage Has Only Hardened

BYLINE: By ELLEN BARRY; Olesya Vartanyan contributed reporting from Tbilisi, Georgia.

DATELINE: TSKHINVALI, Georgia 

 BODY:
A year after war broke out in this tiny provincial city in the breakaway region of South Ossetia, the roads are still rutted with jaw-rattling potholes and downtown buildings are shells open to the sky. 
 But great effort has gone into commemorating last year's war. Near midnight on Friday, precisely a year after Georgia began shelling Tskhinvali, thousands of people gathered in the city's main square, where a Russian-made documentary was projected on a huge screen overhead. Images of Georgia's president, Mikheil Saakashvili, and President George W. Bush were juxtaposed with footage of dead Ossetians, as a floodlit violinist played melancholy music. 
 Georgia, too, offered heavy symbolism. In Gori, which came under Russian bombing in the war, authorities erected a replica of the Berlin Wall, a pointed commentary on Russia's foothold on Georgian land. Georgians observed a nationwide moment of silence in the afternoon, and 500 schoolchildren dressed in red and white formed a living replica of Georgia's flag. A year after the war, the question of who is to blame is still being fought out in public life. On Friday, the presidents of both Russia and Georgia took pains to justify their decisions to send their armies into South Ossetia. 
 Both have faced pressure over the war; Russia set itself at odds with the West by sending its troops into Georgia and again, more permanently, when it recognized the independence of South Ossetia and Georgia's other separatist enclave, Abkhazia. Mr. Saakashvili, meanwhile, is blamed by domestic critics for losing control over the territories. 
 Meanwhile, in this valley, the rage has not abated, not at all. As they prepared to mark the war's anniversary, Ossetians here referred to Georgians as ''swine'' and ''livestock,'' and said they would never live in peace with them again. The commemorations seemed only to stoke those feelings. 
 ''If at some point I see a young Georgian man, and I know that he served in the army, I will kill him,'' said Seldik Tedeyev, a bus driver whose son and mother died trying to leave Tskhinvali last Aug. 8. ''Years will pass, time will pass, but I will kill him anyway.'' 
 An escalating conflict here erupted into full-fledged war when Georgian forces began shelling Tskhinvali on the night of Aug. 7. Russia responded by sending columns of armor into South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Russia routed the Georgian Army, and then recognized the regions as sovereign nations, pledging to protect their independence with its military.
 Georgia has reported more than 400 deaths in the war; Russia's prosecutor's office has so far reported 162. Some 30,000 ethnic Georgians who were driven from their homes remain refugees, according to Amnesty International, and Ossetian militias razed their villages to the ground. 
 In a speech on Friday, Mr. Saakashvili made the case he has made since the beginning: that a Russian invasion was already under way on the night of Aug. 7, and that the attack on Tskhinvali was defensive. 
 ''Our beloved nation was fighting for its very existence,'' he said. ''The heirs of the old K.G.B. decided to put an end to what they call the 'Georgian project,' our collective attempt to build a European state in a corner of Europe that had never before had one.'' 
 President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia, in remarks to filmmakers in Moscow, described the decision to send in troops as the most difficult of his life. 
 ''Each time I remember these events, I rewind the tape, as they say, and realize that on one hand, we had no other choice in that situation,'' he said. ''On the other hand, the events were unfolding under the worst-case scenario, probably, the most sorrowful scenario.''
 Russia responded ''harshly'' to Georgia, he said, ''saving hundreds and thousands of lives and restoring peace in the Caucasus that was at serious risk.''
 Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, South Ossetia has been cut off from Georgia politically and economically, and Tskhinvali came to feel less like a city than a village, with passing cars kicking up clouds of dust. Its prewar population was estimated at 70,000 -- including Ossetians and many ethnic Georgians, who farmed on the lush strip of land north of the capital. Both groups, on Friday, were thinking about what they had lost. 
 Mr. Tedeyev, 47, sat in the shade of a tree in his courtyard, stone-faced. He has four memorial services to go to next week -- among others, for his 22-year-old son, who was shot by advancing Georgian infantry when he tried to drive north to Russia. Mr. Tedeyev's mother was killed moments before, when a shell hit the car.
 Mr. Tedeyev grew up in Tbilisi, the Georgian capital, and has many relatives in Georgia, but since his son's death he has severed all contact with them. He has heard from only one of them -- a favorite aunt -- and when he heard her voice on the phone he hung up. He smokes two packs of cigarettes every night, he said, thinking obsessively about that drive out of the city.
 ''I don't like to see people,'' he said. ''I sit quietly alone in a room.'' 
 On the other side of the border, Nana Tsitsuashvili, 50, dissolved into tears as she stood in Gori's central square before the Berlin Wall exhibit. A year ago, she fled Gori when it was under bombardment; nine of her neighbors were killed, she said, and she still has trouble conceiving that Russia would use bombs on civilians. But Nino Gabinashvili, 16, one of the students who gathered to form a Georgian flag, had no such difficulty.
 ''August showed us that Russia is our enemy,'' said Ms. Gabinashvili, whose family fled Gori as Russian soldiers entered. ''Ossetians are not enemies, they are just toys in the Russians' hands, but eventually they will realize this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: People in Gori, Georgia, on Friday commemorated those who died last August in the brief war between Georgia and Russia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID MDZINARISHVILI/REUTERS)(pg. A4)
Russian soldiers cleaned their rifles on Friday in Tskhinvali, a city in the breakaway region of South Ossetia where Georgian shelling last Aug. 7 began the fighting.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGEY PONOMAREV/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 A woman in Tskhinvali on Friday sorted clothing that had been sent as aid. Thousands of people were displaced by last year's conflict, and many are still picking up the pieces of their lives.(PHOTOGRAPH BY EDUARD KORNIYENKO/REUTERS)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ANNIVERSARIES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (74%); CHILDREN (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%); ARMED FORCES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (67%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); GEORGIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



190 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Bulls Send Markets to Heights Last Seen in 2008

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
 Wall Street was so bullish on Friday that it could have passed for Pamplona.
 Stock markets surged, hitting their highest levels since autumn as investors took in the news that the economy shed only 247,000 jobs in July, its smallest losses in nearly a year. And the American International Group, a black hole of losses and government bailouts, said Friday that it had turned a profit. Investors abandoned the safety of government bonds and rolled the dice with riskier junk bonds.
 ''The recession is dead,'' Dean Maki, an economist at Barclays Capital, declared in a research note. ''Long live the recovery.'' 
 With consumer stocks leading the way, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 113.81 points, or 1.2 percent, to 9,370.07, while the wider Standard & Poor's 500-stock index hit its highest levels since early October and was up 1.34 percent, or 13.40 points, at 1,010.48. The Nasdaq was 1.37 percent, or 27.09 points higher at 2,000.25.
 Shares of the Walt Disney Company finished 5.2 percent higher, Nordstrom closed up 8.2 percent and J. C. Penney 9.7 percent. Shares of hotel chains, office suppliers and banks all bounded higher on investor optimism.
 And shares of A.I.G. continued to rise. The stock closed up 20.5 percent after rising 63 percent on Wednesday and 2.4 percent on Thursday. Shares, which started the week at $13.14, closed Friday at $27.14.
 For most of the last year, the government's monthly snapshot of job losseshas been a dreary day, one that reminds investors that consumers were worried, that employers were still cutting costs and that a drop in spending might hamper a recovery. But Friday's figures offered a rare glint of optimism.
 The unemployment rate dropped for the first time since April 2008, falling to 9.4 percent from 9.5 percent. While that decrease actually reflected the more ominous trend of unemployed workers dropping out of the labor force, the headline decline in the unemployment rate and payroll job losses raised expectations that the economy was turning around.
 ''No one really knows what kind of expansion we'll have,'' said Stu Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Private Bank. ''One thing is clear: having cut costs to the bone, any increase in revenue should drop straight through to the bottom line of corporate America.''
 But businesses and workers are continuing to struggle, notwithstanding the improving jobs numbers and some outsize profits at banks like Goldman Sachs. 
 Economists still expect unemployment to reach 10 percent before it recedes, and many predict that businesses will be slow to create nearly enough jobs to replace the 6.7 million positions lost during this recession. Consumer spending, which makes up most of the American economy, dropped 1.2 percent in the second quarter, and may remain low if jobs do not return.
 ''The behavior of the consumer is now the key thing to watch,'' Mr. Schweitzer said.
 And for companies, second-quarter earnings on the S.& P. 500 are down 31 percent from last year, a nearly identical drop as the first quarter, according to Bloomberg data.
 And as markets keep veering higher, some analysts are bracing for a correction. While some market-watchers are already running with the bulls, Tudor Investment Corporation, the hedge fund, said the recent gains in stocks represented a ''bear market rally.'' 
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 25/32, to 94 4/32. The yield rose to 3.85 percent, from 3.75 percent late Thursday.
 Following are the results of Friday's Treasury auction of 70-day cash management bills:

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: While many traders were ebullient on the New York Stock Exchange floor Friday, some analysts warned of a ''bear market rally.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%); TRENDS (73%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); HOTEL CHAINS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (51%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); WALT DISNEY CO (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (57%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); DIS (NYSE) (69%); GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (55%); JPM (LSE) (55%); 8634 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (69%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (69%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



191 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Masterpiece, But Where Is It?

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL; Walter Gibbs contributed reporting from Oslo.

 BODY:
Nothing says simplicity like the sculpture of Constantin Brancusi, the Romanian-born early modernist known for paring subjects down to their barest essentials. 
 But now a 1913 version of one of his most celebrated works, ''Mademoiselle Pogany,'' a bronze bust of a young woman spare and streamlined as an egg, has ignited a baroque custody battle being waged in courtrooms in Manhattan, Oslo and Paris.
 With two high-profile collectors committing millions to a bitter struggle over the prize, the legal dispute has widened a rift between elderly brothers whose family owned the statue for nearly a century, and recently led to the disappearance of the masterpiece itself.
 ''This is going to take a long time,'' said Christen Sveaas, a Norwegian art collector, who is suing to enforce a 2007 contract that he believes makes him the owner of the piece. 
 At issue is an 18-inch bust that depicts a blank-eyed woman with slender hands cushioning her face in delicate pose. It is one of several versions Brancusi made in marble or bronze, all modeled on Margit Pogany, a Hungarian artist who posed for him in Paris. (Another is at the Museum of Modern Art.)
 Claimed by Romania as a national treasure worth as much as $100 million, the statue is believed to be in storage, placed there by the other of its disputed owners, a holding corporation tied to David Martinez, a New York financier and art collector.
 Mr. Sveaas and the corporation each maintain that the statue was sold to them in 2007 by the brothers Alexandru and Alvaro Botez, who are originally from Romania. The brothers say the bronze came into their family in 1914, when Brancusi gave it to their maternal grandparents, Romanian artists who were friends of his. 
 In 1976, the family lent the piece to the National Museum of Art of Romania for a two-month exhibition. But the government refused to return it, claiming it as cultural patrimony. It took more than two decades, a lawsuit and an order from Romania's highest court for the family to secure its return in 2000. In the interim, the Botez brothers bought the bronze from their uncle in 1992.
 By this time, the brothers had emigrated from Romania -- Alexandru to Oslo, where he worked as an architect, and Alvaro to Paris, where he struggled as an artist. 
 They then offered the bronze for auction at Christie's in New York, but it was withdrawn after objections by the Romanian government. 
 In 2005, the brothers tried again, negotiating to sell the piece to Mr. Sveaas, 53, owner of a Norwegian investment company with vast holdings in shipping and real estate. He already owned a Brancusi, ''Prometheus.'' 
 When a sale appeared imminent in 2007, the Botezes deposited the bronze in a Paris bank vault for safekeeping. But differences over the sale aggravated longstanding tensions between the brothers, according to a ruling by a judge, Yngvild Thue, in Norway, where Mr. Sveaas later filed suit. Alvaro, now 65, needed money and favored a quick sale, Judge Thue found. Alexandru, now 72, favored waiting, so that time might erase Romanian claims to the statue and make it more valuable. But he agreed to go along, according to the court papers.
 In July 2007, Mr. Sveaas signed separate contracts to buy the statue from the brothers. In one, with Alexandru and his two children, he agreed to pay $7 million for one half of ''Mademoiselle Pogany,'' with additional money to be paid if all Romanian claims were finally dismissed.
 Under a separate agreement signed by Alexandru's daughter, Mr. Sveaas agreed to pay Alvaro $5.6 million for his half of the bronze. Alvaro, though, became miffed at his smaller share, according to Judge Thue, and within days had repudiated the contract, saying he had been misled about the negotiations and had not given his niece the power to sign for him.
 Given the problems with the Sveaas deal, the brothers renewed negotiations with another buyer that had expressed interest in the piece, Studio Capital, a Belize-based corporation identified in court papers as a ''shell company and alter ego'' for Mr. Martinez, 52, a Mexican-born debt trader.
 He is reported to have paid a record price for a contemporary painting -- $140 million for a Jackson Pollock in 2006 -- and spent nearly $55 million in 2004 and 2005 for penthouse apartment space in the Time Warner Center.
 In August 2007, to help close the deal with Studio Capital, Alvaro Botez and the statue traveled to Switzerland, where a New York art dealer who represented Mr. Martinez, Dominique Levy of L&M Arts, inspected it. 
 A week later, without telling Mr. Sveaas, the Botezes sold the statue to the corporation, which paid the brothers roughly $7 million each. In addition, if Romanian claims are cleared within six years, Alexandru would be paid half the market price of the statue, less the $7 million he already received. Court papers say Ms. Levy estimated the sculpture's value at $38 million.
 Studio Capital also agreed to reimburse the Botezes up to $420,000 against any claims by Mr. Sveaas. 
 For facilitating the sale, Ms. Levy was paid a commission of $980,000 through what Mr. Sveaas's court papers called ''an offshore account'' in Belize. She did not return calls for comment, but said in court papers that there was nothing inappropriate about her role in the transaction. Since the Botezes turned over the statue, it has not been seen. Mr. Martinez and Studio Capital have declined to comment on the bronze or its whereabouts. 
 When he learned of the sale, Mr. Sveaas responded by suing the brothers in Norway and Mr. Martinez and associates in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. 
 He also obtained a court order in Paris in 2007 requiring the Botezes to produce the sculpture and redeposit it for safekeeping. When they did not, they were fined up to $11,000 a day by the court, but the penalty has been stayed pending appeal.
 Last month, the judge in Oslo issued a 47-page ruling that said Mr. Sveaas had a right to half ownership based on the contract he signed in 2007. (Mr. Sveaas said he planned to appeal to win the right to the entire piece.)
 The judge also awarded him $1.5 million in damages for bad-faith negotiating by the Alexandru Botez side, asserting that had they not concealed Alvaro Botez's repudiation of the first contract, Mr. Sveaas might have salvaged the deal.
 Asked for comment, Timon Botez, responding for his father, Alexandru, called the judge's ruling ''a difficult read'' and said, ''We are naturally very disappointed.''
 He said Mr. Sveaas did not get all he had sought, and added: ''We have spent over 30 years defending our rights to this statue, a fight that is not over yet.''
 Alvaro Botez declined to comment, as did Mr. Martinez and Ms. Levy. 
 In the ruling, Alvaro was absolved of wrongdoing. ''The judge did decide Sveaas had a contract with Alexandru,'' said Donald J. Kennedy of Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, which represents Mr. Sveaas.
 Now, Mr. Sveaas is pushing forward with his case in Manhattan, where he has accused Mr. Martinez and Studio Capital of ''tortious interference'' in his contract to buy the statue. He is seeking $40 million in actual damages -- his valuation of ''Mademoiselle Pogany'' -- plus $40 million in punitive damages.
 Mr. Martinez' lawyer in London, Jonathan I. Blackman of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, denied that Mr. Martinez himself owns the statue. But the Oslo judge found that Mr. Martinez was closely involved in the sale to Studio Capital. 
 In court papers, Studio Capital said that Mr. Sveaas never had a binding contract with both Botez brothers, so there was nothing to sabotage, and that winning the statue amounted to ''the definition of economic competition.'' 
 These days, Mr. Sveaas tries to be content with visits to the ''Mademoiselle Pogany'' he can see -- at MOMA. ''I do it every time I'm in New York,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christen Sveaas, a collector pursuing a claim to the Constantin Brancusi bronze ''Mademoiselle Pogany,'' right, took another Brancusi he owns with him to court in Oslo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FURULY JAN GUNNAR/SCANPIX SWEDEN, VIA SIPA PRESS)
 Alexandru Botez, right, with his lawyer Erik Keiserud, is one of two brothers in the battle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KNUT FALCH/SCANPIX SWEDEN, VIA SIPA PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCULPTURE (90%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART COLLECTING (89%); ART DEALERS (78%); WOMEN (77%); FAMILY (76%); LITIGATION (76%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); GRANDPARENTS (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OSLO, NORWAY (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) ROMANIA (94%); NORWAY (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



192 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Driving Out Of Germany, To Pollute Another Day

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
When the German government developed its pioneering cash-for-clunkers program, it neglected one small detail: making sure the clunkers no longer clunked.
 Police investigators have concluded that the alluring premise of the program -- providing generous incentives to people who replace aging, pollutant-spewing vehicles with environmentally friendly models -- is being undermined as cars that were supposed to have been junked are finding their way to markets in Africa and Eastern Europe.
 Up to 50,000 clunkers have whistled past the automotive graveyard in Germany and found new life elsewhere, according to Ronald Schulze, an expert with the Association of Criminal Investigators, a professional group of police sleuths. Experienced thieves, he said in an interview on Friday, discovered ''a market opportunity.'' 
 ''There is simply an already established network for stealing cars in Germany,'' Mr. Schulze said. ''These crimes are committed by well-organized groups that have the manpower and the logistics.''
 The cars are now churning out carbon dioxide and other pollutants in a host of foreign lands, undermining the ecological goals of the program. Some, investigators say, are even finding their way back to Germany.
 ''This program was about selling cars,'' said Jurgen Resch, the director of German Environmental Help, an advocacy group. ''We left open the question of what happens to the old ones.''
 Germany kicked off its cash for clunkers plan in January and planned to spend about $2 billion, or around $3,500 for each car traded in. But explosive demand led politicians -- up for re-election in late September -- to extend the program to Dec. 31 and more than triple the program's budget, to about $7 billion.
 Other European countries, including France, Spain and Austria, created similar incentive schemes intended to destroy older cars so long as customers bought vehicles with lower emissions. The United States followed, with a popular program that Congress extended this week. 
 But Germany neglected safeguards like the ones adopted in the United States, which require dealers to destroy old engines by injecting sodium silicate in place of oil. In Germany, dealers were required only to drop off the old cars at junkyards.
 But these are hard times for operators of those impressive crushing machines. Prices per metric ton for scrapped cars have tumbled under the pressure of a punishing global recession from nearly $600 as recently as early 2008 to as low as $14 these days. 
 ''Organized crime has offered a lot of money, and someone who already has his back to the wall naturally says, 'Okay, before I close my doors I'd rather give this a try,' '' Gottfried Holl, the president of the Association of German Auto Scrap Yards, told German public radio.
 Dealers who sell to exporters are guilty only of misdemeanor tax evasion if they do not report the profit, Mr. Schulze said.
 The used-car trade between Western Europe and its underdeveloped peripheries has long been a legal commercial niche.
 Travelers in Africa are accustomed to being packed like sardines into a hulking Mercedes reincarnated as a minibus. In Eastern Europe, used vehicles appeal to a population whose purchasing power still lags behind that of the West.
 As the German program got under way, customs officials began noticing an increase in used cars shipped through the northern ports of Hamburg and Bremerhaven. Inquiries revealed that German scrap dealers were openly approaching buyers from Africa about selling cars traded in under the rebate program.
 Mr. Resch, the environmental advocate, participated in an undercover investigation with a German television station this year. They watched a traded German car get smuggled into Poland and licensed for legal use there. 
 Soon afterward, the owner drove it over the long German-Polish border -- free of controls in today's Europe -- and re-registered it in its former country. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A junkyard in Bremen, Germany. The country's ''cash for clunkers'' program is being undermined as cars that were supposed to have been junked end up in Africa and Eastern Europe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOERG SARBACH/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Up to 50,000 clunkers have whistled past the junkyard in Germany. One, above, advertised the rebate in a dealership.(PHOTOGRAPH BY UWE LEIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SCRAPPAGE PROGRAMS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (90%); TAX FRAUD (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); VEHICLE THEFT (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LARCENY & THEFT (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); EXPORT TRADE (71%); POLITICS (69%); MISDEMEANORS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); TAX LAW (61%); RECESSION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BREMEN, GERMANY (79%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); SPAIN (79%); FRANCE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (72%); AUSTRIA (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



193 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Debt Declined In June for a 5th Month

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Consumers paid down their credit cards and cut other debt in June for the fifth consecutive month as they rebuilt savings battered by the recession. 
 Outstanding consumer debt in the United States fell by $10.3 billion, or at an annual rate of 4.9 percent, to $2.5 trillion, the Federal Reserve said. That was a much steeper cut than the $4.7 billion analysts had expected, according to Thomson Reuters.
 The reduction follows a 2.6 percent cut in May and a steep 8.2 percent drop in April, when consumers reduced their borrowing by $17.4 billion. That was the most in dollar terms on record, dating back to 1943.
 Widespread job losses, declining home values and reduced stock portfolios have spurred Americans to spend less.
 In the first three months of this year, net worth of Americans shrank by $1.3 trillion, the Fed has reported, mainly because of lower home prices and investment losses. Consumers responded by cutting back on their spending at a 1.2 percent annual rate in the April-June quarter, after a slight increase of 0.6 percent in the first quarter.
 The savings rate of Americans, meanwhile, jumped to 5.2 percent in the period April to June, the highest since 1998. A higher savings rate, however, could slow economic recovery because consumer spending accounts for 70 percent of economic activity.
 The five monthly declines in consumer credit represent the longest stretch of pullbacks since consumer borrowing fell for seven consecutive months from June through December 1991.
 Total outstanding revolving credit -- mostly credit cards -- fell by $5.3 billion, to $917 billion in June, the Fed said. Nonrevolving credit like auto loans dropped by $5 billion, to $1.59 trillion.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted.(Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL DEBT (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (73%); HOME PRICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



194 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Insure Yourself Against a Job Loss? Good Luck

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
The latest figures from the Department of Labor show that 247,000 more jobs disappeared last month. And right about now, many of the people who had those jobs probably wish they had something more coming to them than some severance pay and a small check from the state unemployment department. 
 I'm talking about private unemployment insurance. The problem is, if they had wanted to buy themselves that insurance a few months ago -- in the same way they can buy life or disability coverage -- it would have been nearly impossible to find at any price. 
 Sure, Hyundai will let you return your car if you lose your job. And companies in a host of other industries are offering add-on coverage that can help you keep paying your bill if you end up unemployed. (I've noted several options, including an intriguing new one in student loans, below.) 
 But paycheck replacement coverage -- a product that seems perfect for this economic moment -- is scarce, if it exists at all.
 How can that be?
 John Hartline, an insurance industry veteran, asked himself that question several years ago. Products like this had come and gone, and Mr. Hartline wanted to create a new one that agents could sell to individuals. In the spring of 2008, he started PayCheck Guardian, and the product came with several restrictions that speak to why it is so hard to make money with this type of offering. 
 The pricing was simple enough at first glance. Pay $69.95 a month, and if you lost your job through no fault of your own, you would get $1,500 a month for six months. 
 There were a few catches. First, you could not collect on the policy unless you had had coverage for at least four months. Why? 
 ''If we offered immediate coverage, people would get laid off at noon and call us at 1, or find out at 8:30 that they were getting fired at noon and call us at 9,'' he said. 
 Customers who had cleared the four-month hurdle, then lost their jobs still had to be unemployed for 30 days before they got their first checks. Mr. Hartline worried that people out on two-week furloughs, say, would try to collect. 
 Even those restrictions were not enough to keep his underwriters happy, though. Mr. Hartline said his reinsurance provider, Munich American Reassurance, forced him to stop writing new policies in April of this year. 
 Why? It turns out that the biggest problem with private unemployment insurance is something that industry insiders refer to as adverse selection. That is a fancy way of saying that the people who take out this sort of policy are the ones most likely to need it.
 ''The potential set of policyholders are selecting against the insurance company, because they know their situation better than an insurance company might,'' said Michael Schmitz, a principal and consulting actuary for the Milwaukee office of the consulting firm Milliman.
 As a result, there is not the sort of risk sharing that occurs when insurance is mandatory, as it generally is with auto insurance, according to Steve Rulis, a vice president and actuary with Munich American. (He was talking about a hypothetical private unemployment insurance offering. The company would not comment specifically on PayCheck Guardian.)
 Another entrepreneur has decided to try a slightly different idea. Bill Graham, a lawyer in North Carolina and former candidate for governor, wants to solve a problem that begins when the unemployed finally find another job: they are often making much less than they were in their last position. His solution: salary gap insurance. Individuals pay a premium, and then get a percentage of the difference between their old pay and their new compensation for up to two years, as long they left their old job involuntarily.
 For several years, Mr. Graham has been shopping this idea to American insurance companies, all of which seemed to like it, though none would ultimately partner with him.
 ''It was just one thing after another,'' he recalled. ''I don't want to speak ill of anyone's company or corporate culture, but the bottom line is that these people are committed to death. They're encumbered by their own bureaucracy. It's almost as if you went to the C.D.C. and said, 'I have a cure for the common cold,' and they said, 'Oh, no thanks.' ''
 Mr. Graham said American insurance companies did not have problems with the risk he asked them to assume. In fact, he said, he asked Towers Perrin, a management consulting firm, to bless the concept and crunch the numbers before he shopped it around. He ultimately found a partner in Europe. His service is now available in the Netherlands and will soon be offered in Britain.
 Still, it is possible that there is a business model problem here. Mr. Graham says he believes that he can offer his service for about the cost of life or home insurance, maybe even less. But much will depend on what the policyholder does for a living. A prudent underwriter might not cover me at any price, for instance, given the carnage in the newspaper industry at the moment. At the very least, workers in fields that are most vulnerable may find themselves paying much more than they do to insure their house. 
 For Americans, however, it is an academic discussion until an insurance company steps up to underwrite salary gap insurance. 
 Meanwhile, it is possible to cobble together coverage for most of your major monthly bills if you are lucky enough to live in the right place or work with the right companies. Here are some examples:
 MORTGAGE A nonprofit group called the Rainy Day Foundation allows companies like home builders that partner with it to cover up to $1,800 in borrowers' monthly payments for up to six months in the first 24 months of the loan.
 If you are shopping for a new home and the builder does not offer this, ask why. And if it is available, make sure it is not only for people who use the builder's own mortgage company or preferred lenders.
 RENT Some large property owners will now let you break your lease if you lose your job, without owing rent for the rest of the year. Again, if you are working with such a company and it does not offer this, ask why and point to companies like Western National Property Management that do. 
 STUDENT LOAN A new company called BridgeSpan Financial will introduce a product called SafeStart sometime next week. In exchange for a one-time payment of $40 to $70 for every $1,000 you borrow, SafeStart will offer a five-year interest-free loan during the five years after you finish your degree. You can use this loan to make student loan payments if you experience economic hardship. Coverage will be available only for federal student loans, though BridgeSpan hopes to cover other loans eventually. 
 CAR Hyundai, through its Assurance program, continues to allow car buyers who take out loans when buying its cars to return the cars within a year if they lose their jobs, though there are some restrictions.
 For any of these programs, you should ask: Is there a vesting period before I can collect? What about a separate waiting period after I become unemployed (as there was with PayCheck Guardian)? Can I keep the coverage forever, or only for a year or two? What sort of proof do you need of my unemployment? Am I ineligible if I am self-employed? Is it free, or must I pay a premium?
 In many cases it will be free, since the property owner or car manufacturer will shoulder any risk or pay a third party to do so. After all, they want you to sign a lease or buy their vehicle.
 For true paycheck replacement insurance to succeed, however, customers would probably have to pay for it out of their own pockets. 
 ''The attention that the economic crisis has received probably raises the interest level and could raise the demand'' for a product like this, Mr. Schmitz of Milliman said. ''After a hurricane, people understand the value of insurance all the better.''
 That's for sure. But until insurance companies or others are willing to let you pay for an umbrella that shields you from the violent storms in the job market, you are stuck with insuring yourself with a plain old savings account. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEVERANCE PAY (77%); REINSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



195 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: New Endowment Chairman Sees Arts as Economic Engine

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
Now that the Broadway producer Rocco Landesman is officially chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts -- he was confirmed on Friday -- his straight-talking style, Missouri roots and affinity for baseball and country music are expected to give him a leg up with many legislators. 
 But in his first sit-down interview since his nomination by President Obama, Mr. Landesman's comments suggested that he may nevertheless raise hackles on Capitol Hill after he is sworn in in the next few days. Speaking recently in his office above the St. James Theater on West 44th Street, where Tony Awards abut baseball trophies -- testament to his prowess as a producer and as a pitcher in the Broadway Show League -- Mr. Landesman, 62, made clear that he has little patience for the disdain with which some politicians still seem to view the endowment, more than a decade after the culture wars that nearly destroyed it. 
 He was particularly angered, he said, by parts of the debate over whether to include $50 million for the agency in the federal stimulus bill, citing the comment by Mitt Romney, former governor of Massachusetts, on CNBC's ''Squawk Box'' in February, that arts money did not belong in the bill. That kind of thinking suggests that ''artists don't have kids to send to college,'' Mr. Landesman said, ''or food to put on the table, or medical bills to pay.''
 In American politics generally, he added: ''The arts are a little bit of a target. The subtext is that it is elitist, left wing, maybe even a little gay.'' 
 And while he praised the way recent endowment chairmen have carefully rebuilt the agency's political standing, Mr. Landesman -- who is known more as an independent entrepreneur than as a diplomatic company man -- said he was not planning to follow too closely in their footsteps. While Dana Gioia, his immediate predecessor, made a point of spreading endowment funds to every Congressional district, for example, Mr. Landesman said he expected to focus on financing the best art, regardless of location.
 ''I don't know if there's a theater in Peoria, but I would bet that it's not as good as Steppenwolf or the Goodman,'' he said, referring to two of Chicago's most prominent theater companies. ''There is going to be some push-back from me about democratizing arts grants to the point where you really have to answer some questions about artistic merit.''
 ''And frankly,'' he added, ''there are some institutions on the precipice that should go over it. We might be overbuilt in some cases.'' 
 Mr. Landesman does believe that the agency should be ''perceived as being everywhere,'' he said. ''But I don't know that we have to be everywhere if the only reason for supporting an institution is its geography.'' 
 On the subject of the endowment's budget, too, Mr. Landesman did not hold back. Though he would not put a dollar figure on his own fiscal goals, he called the current appropriation of $155 million ''pathetic'' and ''embarrassing.'' And he seemed to imply dissatisfaction with increases proposed by Congress and by the president, which both fall short of the agency's 1992 budget of $176 million. 
 ''We're going to be looking for funding increases that are more than incremental,'' he said. 
 As for grants to individual artists -- which were eliminated in 1996 after years of complaints from conservative legislators about the financing of controversial art -- Mr. Landesman said he would reinstate them ''tomorrow'' if it were up to him. (It's up to Congress.) 
 Mr. Landesman said that as chairman he will focus on the potential of the arts to help in the country's economic recovery.
 ''I wouldn't have come to the N.E.A. if it was just about padding around in the agency,'' he said, and worrying about which nonprofits deserve more funds. ''We need to have a seat at the big table with the grown-ups. Art should be part of the plans to come out of this recession.''
 ''If we're going to have any traction at all,'' he added, ''there has to be a place for us in domestic policy.'' 
 He was less clear about the details of this ambitious agenda, though he talked about starting a program that he called ''Our Town,'' which would provide home equity loans and rent subsidies for living and working spaces to encourage artists to move to downtown areas. 
 ''When you bring artists into a town, it changes the character, attracts economic development, makes it more attractive to live in and renews the economics of that town,'' he said. ''There are ways to draw artists into the center of things that will attract other people.'' 
 The program would also help finance public art projects and performances and promote architectural preservation in downtown areas, Mr. Landesman added. ''Every town has a public square or landmark buildings or places that have a special emotional significance,'' he said. ''The extent that art can address that pride will be great.''
 Given the agency's ''almost invisible'' budget, he said, goals like these would require public-private partnerships that enlist developers, corporations and individual investors -- largely by getting them ''to understand the critical role of art in urban revitalization.'' 
 Such arrangements -- which he said will be a ''signature part'' of his chairmanship -- will play ''right into the president's wheelhouse,'' Mr. Landesman added, speaking of Mr. Obama's concerns about cities and economic development.
 The new chairman said he already has a new slogan for his agency: ''Art Works.'' It's ''something muscular that says, 'We matter.' '' The words are meant to highlight both art's role as an economic driver and the fact that people who work in the arts are themselves a critical part of the economy. 
 ''Someone who works in the arts is every bit as gainfully employed as someone who works in an auto plant or a steel mill,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''We're going to make the point till people are tired of hearing it.'' 
 As for the former agency slogan, ''A Great Nation Deserves Great Art,'' he said, ''We might as well just apologize right off the bat.''
 Mr. Landesman said he realized he was not the obvious man for the job. ''There are a lot of people whose resumes laid out a lot better than mine,'' he said. ''But I think the president is serious when he talks about change. I think he wanted to bring a new energy to this agency.''
 Mr. Landesman's own resume starts with his upbringing in and around the cabaret theater his father and uncle ran in St. Louis, the Crystal Palace. Performers including the Smothers Brothers and Mike Nichols and Elaine May often headlined there during his childhood, some of them staying in the Landesman family's basement apartment after their gigs.
 Mr. Landesman, who has a reddish beard and lanky physique, did a lot of acting as an undergraduate at the University of Wisconsin, then went on to the Yale School of Drama, where he earned a Ph.D. in dramatic literature and criticism and stayed on as an assistant professor for four years, until 1978. 
 After leaving Yale, Mr. Landesman started a mutual fund, bought racehorses until he had amassed a dozen -- one successful horse would enable him to purchase another -- and about three years ago, he said, ''came within about five minutes of buying the Cincinnati Reds.'' (He lost out to another bidder at the last minute, which he said was ''painful.'') 
 In 1985 he produced the Broadway musical ''Big River,'' which won that year's Tony for best musical, at a theater owned by the Jujamcyn group, the third-largest of the big three New York theater companies, after Shubert and Nederlander. Two years later he was hired as the president of Jujamcyn Theaters, and in 2005 he bought the company; in his new position he will retain his ownership stake but will not participate in the company's activities. 
 Jack Viertel, Jujamcyn's creative director, described Mr. Landesman as smart, decisive and ''a very entertaining person to be around,'' but also ''mercurial,'' ''unpredictable'' and ''an extraordinarily hardheaded businessman.''
 Paul Libin, the producing director at Jujamcyn, said he was at first ''taken aback'' by the idea of Mr. Landesman's leading the endowment, but that he has come to believe that the job requires ''someone who is a general,'' and that his boss fits the bill.
 Mr. Landesman wasn't tapped for the job. ''I'd love to say the president drafted me, and I had to answer the call of duty, but no,'' he said. ''I put my hand up for this.'' 
 ''Everybody I talked to said, 'This is the worst idea I've ever heard, put it out of your head immediately,' '' Mr. Landesman said. ''The idea of running a 170-person federal bureaucracy seemed crazy.'' 
 But it's an unusual moment in history, he said, and he wanted to be part of it. President Obama was ''the first candidate in my memory who made arts part of the campaign,'' Mr. Landesman said. ''He had an arts policy committee and an arts policy statement and arts advisers.'' 
 Cultural mavens like himself feel they ''have one of their own'' in the White House, he added. ''It makes the arts community feel finally, for the first time in a long time, there might be some wind at their back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Rocco Landesman (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C1)
Mr. Landesman in his Manhattan office on Tuesday with the ''R'' from the sign that hung at the Virginia Theater. He kept the letter after the theater was renamed for August Wilson.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 From left, Rocco Landesman, Walter Kerr, Carol Channing and Tony Randall in 1990, when a theater was renamed for Mr. Kerr.(PHOTOGRAPH BY VIC DELUCIA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); THEATER (89%); POLITICS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); COUNTRY MUSIC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PEORIA, IL, USA (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



196 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: To the North, Grumbling Over Trade

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Before coming here on a visit in February, President Obama assured anxious Canadians in a television interview that the United States' trading partners had nothing to fear from the ''Buy America'' provisions in federal stimulus bills.
 But now that the stimulus money is flowing, many Canadian companies are finding that, despite the president's assurances, the North American Free Trade Agreement does not in fact offer them much protection. 
 Charles A. Cartmill buys about half of the components he uses to make streetlamps based on energy-efficient light-emitting diodes from American companies. But the Buy America provisions have still made the lamps from his company, LED Roadway Lighting, increasingly unwelcome in the United States.
 ''We've had contractors call and say that they want certificates that everything is from the U.S.,'' Mr. Cartmill said from Halifax, Nova Scotia. ''It will definitely cost us business.''
 Mr. Cartmill's case is not isolated, particularly among companies that make the parts used to build the infrastructure of American cities. Citing provisions in legislation that has flowed from the initial recovery act, United States cities, states and contractors are telling Canadian companies that their pipes, water pumps and electrical equipment are no longer on United States shopping lists. Canadian Manufacturers and Exporters, a trade group, estimates that about 250 companies have been affected to date.
 While the dispute has attracted relatively little notice in the United States, it has reopened the debate in Canada about the value of Nafta and the trustworthiness of the United States as a trade partner.
 On Friday, the premiers of Canada's 10 provinces concluded a meeting by urging the federal government to confront the United States over the issue. They will not have to wait long for satisfaction. A spokesman for Prime Minister Stephen Harper said on Friday that Buy America would be on the agenda when two days of meetings among him, Mr. Obama and President Felipe Calderon of Mexico begin in Guadalajara, Mexico, on Sunday.
 ''No country should add any protectionist measures to what they are doing,'' Stockwell Day, Canada's international trade minister, said in a recent interview. ''Congress should realize that they are risking retaliatory actions from Canada. Retaliatory trade measures always end up with both sides getting hurt.''
 Buy America provisions have been popular with organized labor, including United States-based unions like the United Steelworkers of America, which also have members in Canada. But they have not been met with the same enthusiasm by many businesses. In a submission to the Office of Management and Budget, the Chamber of Commerce of the United States said that the measure was effectively blocking American companies from bidding on infrastructure work because they have global operations, including branches in Canada. 
 Canada and the Chamber of Commerce agree that the problem is not at the federal level. On the whole, it appears that federal departments and agencies are honoring a portion of the Buy America clause that exempts products from 38 countries, including Canada, that hold trade agreements with the United States.
 Canada's problems, however, stem from state and local government projects financed by stimulus money from the federal government.
 The problems are twofold. Many state and local governments are not directly covered under Nafta or by the World Trade Organization agreements, although 37 states have agreed to the provisions of the international agreement. On top of that, provisions inserted in authorization bills for the disbursal of stimulus money on specific types of projects have left those lower-level governments thinking that any supplies they purchase using federal money must be entirely American.
 ''The message, as municipalities and states are hearing it, is: make sure Canada doesn't bid on stimulus programs or you won't get the funds,'' Mr. Day said.
 There is, however, a twist that is often overlooked during the debate in Canada. No municipal or provincial governments in Canada are bound by international trade agreements, and many of them have discriminated against foreign companies when making purchases. 
 The current feud with the United States has prompted a small number of Canadian municipalities to take advantage of their legal position to engage in their own form of trade retaliation. Haywood Gordon, which is based in the Toronto suburb of Halton Hills, Ontario, found that Buy America had all but eliminated the government market in the United States for its products, which include pumps used in sewage systems. In response, the local government in Halton Hills now boycotts products from any country that discriminates against Canadian exporters. In June, the Federation of Canadian Municipalities passed a similar resolution, although it delayed its effective date for several months.
 In an attempt to strengthen Canada's case, Mr. Day wants Canada's provinces -- which also hold power over local governments -- to formally agree to open their purchasing to foreign companies. Unions, including the Canadian Auto Workers, have urged the provinces to resist. The premiers apparently failed to reach a common position at their meeting this week.
 In theory, Canadian companies can apply for waivers to make it clear to local governments and their contractors that their products do not violate the Buy America rules.
 But Mr. Cartmill, the streetlight maker, has found that system generally unworkable.
 ''For the most part, municipalities are not going to go through the trouble of getting some kind of ruling,'' he said, adding that deadlines for stimulus financing applications make the problem more acute.
 The Chamber of Commerce in Washington has formally asked the budget office to tell municipal and state governments that they are not permitted to discriminate against suppliers from Canada and other American trade partners on projects financed with federal stimulus money.
 ''Rational people could make an argument that it's federal money flowing down,'' said Chris Braddock, the senior director of procurement policy at the United States Chamber of Commerce. The Canadian government is also pressing Congress and the Obama administration for an explicit exemption on state and local projects.
 Some Canadian trade analysts are concerned that any effort to clarify Canada's position may be blocked by members of Congress who do not want to be perceived as opposing Buy America. Others worry that by the time that Canada gets its way, the stimulus money will have largely been spent. Mr. Day, however, is optimistic about a resolution to the trade dispute.
 ''It may be unintended consequences,'' he said of situation surrounding state and local projects. ''But they are consequences nonetheless.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stockwell Day is Canada's international trade minister.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MUNSHI AHMED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); ELECTRONIC DIODES (75%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (70%); FACTORY WORKERS (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); LABOR UNIONS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); FELIPE CALDERON (58%); STEPHEN HARPER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (73%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); MEXICO (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



197 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Job Losses Slow, Signaling Momentum for a Recovery

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The most heartening employment report since last summer suggested on Friday that a recovery was under way -- and perhaps gathering steam -- despite the reluctance of the nation's businesses to resume hiring or even stop shedding jobs.
 Employers eliminated 247,000 jobs in July, a huge number by the standards of an ordinary recession, but the smallest monthly loss since last August, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported. And the unemployment rate, rising for months, actually ticked down, to 9.4 percent from 9.5 percent in June, mainly because so many people dropped out of the hunt for work, ceasing to list themselves as unemployed. 
 ''Employers are no longer in a panic,'' said Ian C. Shepherdson, chief domestic economist for High Frequency Economics. ''The pressure they felt to get rid of workers in a hurry is diminishing. What we don't see yet is enough momentum in the economy to convince companies to hire again.''
 Obama administration officials credited the stimulus package, enacted in February, for the continuing improvement, from a peak of 741,000 jobs lost in January. Some said the July loss would have been closer to 500,000 without the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The president, appearing briefly in the White House Rose Garden, said his administration had ''rescued our economy from catastrophe.''
 Responding to a report that was better than expected, stock investors drove up the Dow Jones industrial average by 114 points, or 1.2 percent. 
 Just a week earlier, the government announced another significant improvement -- the overall economy contracted at an annual rate of only 1 percent in the spring quarter, vastly better than the fall and winter months. The two reports have convinced many forecasters that when the history of the Great Recession is written, these summer months will be the big turning point, when the economy started to grow again.
 ''The labor market, like the overall economy, is beginning to stabilize, with the expectation that job losses will approach zero by the end of the year,'' said Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, who expects the unemployment rate to peak at less than 10 percent.
 After months of painful job losses, the Obama administration was clearly relieved at the brightening picture. The president, his advisers and administration economists pointed to their actions to stimulate the economy. Only $100 billion of the $787 billion package has filtered into the economy so far, with much of the remainder to be spent next year.
 ''The fingerprints of the Recovery Act are all over this data,'' said Jared Bernstein, the chief economist for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. ''Were it not for the economic activity generated by the act, we would have lost hundreds of thousands more jobs last month.''
 The Republicans offered a rebuttal shortly after the president spoke in the early afternoon. ''No one would argue that the stimulus has done nothing, but it certainly does not look like we are getting our money's worth,'' Douglas Holtz-Eakin, an economic adviser to John McCain during his presidential campaign, said in a conference call.
 The employment report released Friday included some unsettling information. True, the job loss in July was just over half of the 443,000 jobs lost in June. And the number of hours worked in a week rose by one-tenth to 33.1 hours, halting a lengthy decline. 
 But never in the 61 years of recordkeeping has one-third of the unemployed, currently 14.5 million people, been out of work for 27 weeks or more. 
 Karen Triplett in Atlanta keeps trying to escape the fate of the long-term unemployed. Ms. Triplett, who is 61, lost her job selling advertising in February and has been hitting ''wall after wall ever since,'' as she puts it. The only job offer, she said, turned out to be a scam, and her income has fallen from $60,000 a year to $1,100 a month in unemployment benefits. ''I'm struggling just to pay my house note,'' she said. 
 Thousands of others are giving up. More than 400,000 who had been looking for work dropped out of the labor force in July, not even bothering to tell government pollsters that they would accept a job, part time or full time, if one came their way.
 ''If there had been no drop in this labor force participation, if all those people had continued to look for work, then the unemployment rate last month would have ticked up, to 9.7 percent,'' said Nigel Gault, chief domestic economist at IHS Global Insight.
 Mr. Gault, sharing a view held by most economists, says the unemployment rate won't really begin to fall until employers are adding workers, at least 100,000 a month to keep pace with population growth, something not likely to happen until February or March, if then.
 A broader measure of the nation's unemployment, which includes people too discouraged to look for work or forced to work only part time, slipped to 16.3 percent from its peak of 16.5 percent in June. 
 Through July, 6.7 million jobs have disappeared since the recession began in December 2007, with manufacturers accounting for nearly one-third of the loss. But manufacturing losses in July eased to 52,000, largely because of a fluke in the auto industry. 
 Car factories usually shut in July for vacations or retooling, and the Bureau of Labor Statistics takes this into account in its seasonal formulas. But this year, with General Motors and Chrysler in turmoil, the layoffs came mostly in May and June. The auto industry, as a result, was credited with a rise of 28,000 jobs in July, seasonally adjusted. In fact, automakers cut 8,600 jobs.
 Although the number of lost jobs has dwindled nearly every month this year, the losses continue to cut across nearly every business sector, with manufacturing and construction the hardest hit.
 The health services sector stands apart from this trend, once again adding workers, about the only sector to have done so through the recession. Local governments, along with the federal government, added 7,000 workers, with the help of stimulus money. 
 The stimulus is crucial, Mr. Shepherdson said. ''If it were to stop, the economy would grind to a halt. There is no momentum from consumer spending or business investment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sean Christman, a recent college graduate, handing out resumes to drivers in Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(D3) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in July (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (53%); JOE BIDEN (51%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



198 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1487 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 CLINTON SEEKS BETTER TIES BETWEEN U.S. AND S. AFRICA
 South Africa is stop No. 2 on Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's seven-nation tour of Africa, and her visit seemed primarily about mending fences, after years of discord over South Africa's AIDS policies. PAGE A4 
 COLOMBIA VISITS NEIGHBORS
 President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia wrapped up a seven-country tour of South America this week seeking to calm skeptical neighbors about a proposal to allow an increased American military presence in Colombian territory. PAGE A5 
 COLD WAR GHOST REAPPEARS
 The ouster of the Honduran president has brought back many of Central America's cold war figures, but few as polarizing as Billy Joya, a former police captain accused of being the former leader of a death squad. The Saturday Profile. PAGE A5 
 SIGNALS ON HONDURAS POLICY
 The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is worried that a State Department letter may have given the impression that American support for restoring the ousted president of Honduras to power had begun to weaken. PAGE A5 
 WARNING ON CABINET IN IRAN
 In a sign of persistent divisions in Iran's hard-line political camp, major conservative parties sent a blunt letter to President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, warning him not to disregard other senior figures as he chooses his new cabinet. PAGE A6 
 DISPUTED VOTE IN NIGER
 Mamadou Tandja, the president of the vast desert nation of Niger, has secured another three years in office and unlimited runs at future terms in a referendum that opposition officials have called a coup d'etat in all but name. PAGE A6 
 PAKISTAN'S NO. 1 ENEMY
 By the time of his apparent death on Wednesday, Baitullah Mehsud had gone from working with the Pakistani Army to becoming the leader of the local Taliban, a key figure in Al Qaeda and Pakistan's most wanted militant. PAGE A6 
 AFGHAN WARLORDS IN POLITICS
 In the campaign before Afghanistan's presidential election on Aug. 20, the incumbent, Hamid Karzai, has lined up half a dozen warlords who have guaranteed their political support in exchange for as yet unknown back-room deals. PAGE A7 
 GREAT TRAIN ROBBER FREED
 The last of the men still serving time for the Great Train Robbery, Ronnie Biggs, was formally paroled after Britain's justice minister decided he was likely to have only a short time to live. PAGE A8 
 CHINA EXECUTES EXECUTIVE
 The execution of the former chairman of a state-owned airport holding company, for bribery and embezzlement, underscored the gravity of the government's campaign against official corruption. PAGE A8 
 3 Britons and 1 American Killed A7 
 Raid on Militants in Indonesia A7 
 National
 ART COLLECTION LOST IN FIRE, AND OFFICIALS OFFER REASONS
 The Washington Fire Department acknowledged that there was a lack of water pressure when firefighters could not save a home containing a major private collection of African-American art. But it said that alone was not the reason the house was not saved. PAGE A9 
 SNIPER'S APPEAL IS REJECTED
 A federal appeals court upheld the death sentence of the man convicted in the Washington-area sniper attacks in 2002. He may be executed in less than three months unless the Supreme Court intervenes. PAGE A9 
 SANFORD'S WIFE MOVES OUT
 The wife of Gov. Mark Sanford of South Carolina is moving out of the governor's mansion, signaling that she intends to keep her distance from her husband. PAGE A9 
 FLORIDA SENATOR RESIGNS
 Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, abruptly announced his resignation, saying he would step down as soon as Gov. Charlie Crist named a replacement, presumably before Congress returns from its summer recess. PAGE A10 
 SCHOOLS ARE ADVISED ON FLU
 Most schools should be able to stay open even if swine flu outbreaks occur again this fall, government officials said as they issued suggestions for dealing with the illness when the school year starts. PAGE A11 
 DIFFERENT FAITHS, SAME SEX
 Geoffrey Nauffts's acclaimed new play ''Next Fall'' may well be the first artistic exploration of interfaith marriage within a same-sex context. On Religion. PAGE A12 
 SENATE HISTORIAN REFLECTS
 Richard A. Baker has received some strange inquiries in his 34 years as Senate historian. Mr. Baker, the first Senate historian, is retiring at the end of August. PAGE A12 
 New York
 GOVERNOR'S ORDER EASES REPEAL OF STATE REGULATIONS
 Gov. David A. Paterson issued a sweeping executive order that would allow a handpicked group of top aides to repeal state regulations they deem outdated or overly burdensome to businesses. PAGE A13 
 SCULPTURE IN CUSTODY BATTLE
 A 1913 version of one of Constantin Brancusi's most celebrated works, ''Mademoiselle Pogany,'' a bronze bust of a young woman spare and streamlined as an egg, has ignited a baroque custody battle being waged in courtrooms in Manhattan, Oslo and Paris. PAGE A13 
 Obituaries
 WILLY DEVILLE, 58
 A singer and songwriter and the leader of the group Mink DeVille, his adventurous forays into rhythm and blues, Cajun music and salsa made him one of the most original figures of the New York punk scene of the 1970s. PAGE A15 
 Business
 DOING 'CLUNKER' CALCULUS, THE BEST AND WORST CASES
 The ''cash for clunkers'' program will be back in full swing this weekend. The short-term effect will be obvious, but the program's long-term value -- either as a method of stimulating the economy or saving energy -- is less clear. News Analysis. PAGE B3 
 SAVING THE POSTAL SERVICE
 Instead of finding short-term solutions to its financial crisis, perhaps the Postal Service should change its business model, Joe Nocera writes. Talking Business. PAGE B1 
 ENFORCING A TV CEASE-FIRE
 Executives at two of the country's largest media companies, General Electric and the News Corporation, are still trying to salvage what was essentially a cease-fire deal between shows on their cable news channels, MSNBC and the Fox News Channel, respectively. PAGE B1 
 INSURANCE AGAINST JOB LOSS
 Paycheck replacement coverage -- a product that seems perfect for this economic moment -- is scarce, if it exists at all. How can that be? Your Money by Ron Leiber. PAGE B1 
 NEW BID FOR BOSTON GLOBE
 Platinum Equity, the California private equity firm that recently bought The San Diego Union-Tribune, has become the third bidder offering to buy The Boston Globe. PAGE B2 
 A.I.G.'S FIRST PROFIT SINCE '07
 The American International Group reported a quarterly profit, its first since late 2007, saying that parts of its business had stabilized and that an accounting change had been favorable. The results for the second quarter also revealed some troubles in its core insurance units. PAGE B2 
 UP NORTH, UPSET OVER TRADE
 Now that the stimulus money is flowing, many Canadian companies are finding that the North American Free Trade Agreement does not offer them much protection from the ''Buy America'' provisions in federal stimulus bills. PAGE B3 
 WIDER LOSS FOR BRITISH BANK
 Royal Bank of Scotland's first-half loss grew, and it set aside $12.6 billion for potentially bad loans in the period -- more than during all of 2008. PAGE B4 
 Berkshire Posts Profit B2 
 Madoff Aide May Plead Guilty A6 
 Consumer Debt Fell in June A6 
 Sports
 JESSE JACKSON WONDERS 
 If N.F.L. Keeps Out Vick
 The Rev. Jesse Jackson has been reaching out to various media outlets with a question: Are teams in the N.F.L. colluding to keep out Michael Vick? PAGE B9 
 RED SOX RELEASE SMOLTZ
 The beleaguered Red Sox had lost three straight games and 11 of their last 18, so after John Smoltz was trampled by the Yankees, they jettisoned the pitcher. PAGE B9 
 Cavaliers' James to Test Market B11
 Arts
 A PRODUCER WILL TACKLE ARTS AGENDA AND CAPITOL HILL
 The Broadway producer Rocco Landesman was confirmed as chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts. He is known as an independent entrepreneur more than a diplomatic company man. Man in the News. PAGE C1
 A PULPY, JUICELESS, G.I. JOE
 With its gagging laughs, discount special effects and interchangeable action figures, Paramount Pictures' ''G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra'' is immune from criticism. Film Review by Manohla Dargis. PAGE C1 
 SOUL IS BACK, AND IT'S MATURE
 K'Jon's major-label debut, ''I Get Around'' (Universal Republic), is one of this year's most promising and least expected R&B albums. For the first time in recent memory, the most vital new soul music addresses adult concerns with an adult sound. And K'Jon is not alone. PAGE C1 
 FRIENDLY STAGE FOR ROOTS
 The Big Surprise Tour, a roots-music extravaganza anchored by Old Crow Medicine Show, makes sport of camaraderie. At the Beacon Theater, 15 people were strumming or sawing at their instruments. Music Review by Nate Chinen. PAGE C5
 A Collector, Burned, Starts Anew C1 
 Arts, Briefly C2
 Improvised Silence at the Stone C3 
 A Death Requested C3 
 Bohemians Endure C6
 Op-ed
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A17 
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A17

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); ARMIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); REFERENDUMS (75%); TALIBAN (75%); BRIBERY (74%); CORRUPTION (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); COUPS (72%); AIDS & HIV (72%); AIDS POLICY (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (71%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); PAROLE (69%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (67%); CONSERVATISM (66%); AL-QAEDA (62%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); FIRES (61%); EMBEZZLEMENT (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); HAMAD KARZAI (56%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (56%); ALVARO URIBE (56%); BAITULLAH MEHSUD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); HONDURAS (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); NIGER (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); INDONESIA (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



199 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Senator Fears Letter Sends Wrong Signal On Honduras

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is concerned that the Obama administration's efforts to placate Republican critics of its policy on Honduras were giving the impression that American support for the restoration of the ousted president, Manuel Zelaya, had begun to weaken.
 Frederick Jones, a spokesman for the committee chairman, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said Friday that the senator was worried that a State Department letter to Republican legislators ''risks sending a confusing signal'' about the United States' support for negotiations aimed at restoring Mr. Zelaya to power. 
 The State Department sent a letter this week to Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, the ranking Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, who had warned that key State Department appointments -- including the assistant secretary for Western Hemisphere affairs -- could be held up unless the Obama administration gave lawmakers a ''detailed clarification'' of the steps it had taken, and intended to take, in response to the coup in Honduras, as well as to the political conflict that led to it.
 There are significant disagreements in Congress over how to respond to the Honduran crisis, and the threats over the confirmations have evolved into a proxy fight over Honduras. Democrats support a negotiated deal that would let Mr. Zelaya return as president with limited powers. But Republicans back the contentions of the leaders of the de facto regime, who say Mr. Zelaya brought about his own downfall by organizing an illegal referendum to try to extend his term. 
 On June 28, Mr. Zelaya was rousted from bed by soldiers who put him on a plane to Costa Rica. With support from the Honduran Congress and the Supreme Court, the military handed power to a de facto government led by Roberto Micheletti. 
 The Obama administration joined governments around the world in condemning the coup, and it cut off some aid to bolster demands that Mr. Zelaya be returned to power. The United States has also supported a compromise offered by President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica, who is mediating the dispute, that would permit Mr. Zelaya to complete his term with reduced powers. 
 However, in the letter to Senator Lugar on Wednesday, the State Department seemed to distance itself from Mr. Zelaya, criticizing his ''insistence on taking provocative actions'' that contributed to the crisis and saying that the administration's policy ''is not based on supporting any politician or individual.''
 The letter angered Latin American leaders, who were already critical of what they considered a weak response by the United States. The United States has not withdrawn its ambassador and has avoided stronger economic sanctions, saying it was concerned about destabilizing the third poorest country in the hemisphere. 
 President Obama told reporters on Friday that he continued to support the reinstatement of Mr. Zelaya, but that the United States would not act unilaterally, Reuters reported. ''I can't press a button and suddenly reinstate Mr. Zelaya,'' Mr. Obama said, the news agency reported. In Tegucigalpa, the Honduran capital, however, the State Department's letter was celebrated by the de facto government as a sign that it was winning a battle of wills within the administration.
 In another development on Friday, the Organization of American States announced that it would send a delegation of foreign ministers, led by Secretary General Jose Miguel Insulza, to Tegucigalpa on Tuesday. 
 Antonio Tavel, the president of Xerox in Honduras, echoed the views of many in the Honduran business community when he said the Obama administration's tough talk had softened in the six weeks since Mr. Zelaya's ouster. And he said that the steps taken by the United States to put pressure on the de facto government -- suspending $16.5 million in military assistance -- had had little effect. ''I hate to say it,'' he said, ''but their bark is worse than their bite.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUPS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ARMED FORCES (64%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MANUEL ZELAYA (79%); DICK LUGAR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); HONDURAS (95%); COSTA RICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009



200 of 830 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: August 8, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Obama Says Economy Is 'Pointed in Right Direction'

BYLINE: By DAVID STOUT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama said Friday that the encouraging report on jobs shows that ''we're pointed in the right direction'' and that the beginning of the end of the recession should spur policies to avoid a similar calamity for the nation. 
 ''We're losing jobs at less than half the rate we were when I took office,'' the president said in the White House Rose Garden, taking comfort in a report showing that ''only'' 247,000 jobs were lost in July, the smallest monthly drop since last August. And in an unexpected reversal, the unemployment rate dropped to 9.4 percent from 9.5 percent the previous month.
 Mr. Obama used the heartening figures to argue again for an overhaul of the health-care system, a renewed commitment to education and ''new, clean energy sources for our industries.'' The president did not mention former President George W. Bush by name, but it was clear that he was alluding to Bush policies.
 ''Now, as we begin to put an end to this recession, we have to consider what comes next, because we can't afford to return to an economy based on inflated profits and maxed-out credit cards, an economy where we depend on dirty and outdated sources of energy, an economy where we're burdened by soaring health care costs that serve on the special interests,'' he said.
 ''We cannot turn back to the failed policies of the past, nor can we stand still,'' the president said.
 Mr. Obama said the huge economic-stimulus package he pushed through Congress was working, that it is untainted by earmarks or pork barrel spending and that, despite ''a lot of misinformation'' about it, is providing meaningful tax relief to individuals and businesses alike.
 The president, who took no questions from reporters, said the road to recovery will be a long one. ''Change is hard, especially in Washington,'' he said. ''We have a steep mountain to climb, and we started in a very deep valley.''
 At one point, Mr. Obama said, ''We won't rest until every American that is looking for work can find a job.'' 
 In a coincidence that was probably not intended, the president was quoting his predecessor almost verbatim: In the summer of 2004, the Republican Policy Committee said: ''Improving the quantity and quality of jobs remains a top priority for Republicans. In the words of President Bush, ''We won't rest until everybody who wants to work can find a job.''''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE (73%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); MOUNTAINS (65%); TAX LAW (63%); TAX RELIEF (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2009

 
